ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room. We will begin the sitting of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 29 September 2022. First of all, the amendments tabled to the Bureau's agenda. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Law on Facilitated Procedures for the Construction of Wind Power Plants for Energy Security and Independence”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Environmental Impact Assessment” to be included on the agenda of the meeting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the law on support for the economic consequences of sanctions and countermeasures imposed against Ukraine”. and examine it before point 12 of the agenda... on the agenda section ‘Handling of draft laws’. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Cabinet of Ministers asks that the draft law “Amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Support Law” be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Cabinet of Ministers asks to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the law on exceptional increases in energy prices”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption is asking for the draft law “Law on the State Defence Service” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. The Commission is asking for this draft law and its accompanying package to be included as the first under the "Provision of draft law". Dear colleagues, Members Mārtiņš Šteins, Juris Rancāns, Arvils Aseradens, Ainars Baķis and Raivis Dzintars have also asked that the draft laws and accompanying draft laws be included as the first issues to be considered. Do Members have objections? ( The box “Yes! ”) ; “Ir!” ) Please call us! We will vote for the draft law “Law of the State Defence Service” and its accompanying draft laws to be included on the agenda of the sitting, examining them under the section “Review of draft laws” as the first issues to be considered! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Consequently, it was decided that this draft law and its accompanying draft legislation were included as the first items in the agenda of the sitting under the heading ‘Review of draft laws’. We have already decided to include this legislative package in a specific place on the agenda of the sitting, but we must also consider the inclusion of other draft laws on the agenda of the sitting. The Committee on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption is therefore asking for the draft law on “Amendments to the Military Disciplinary Law” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( Internouncing call.) Okay, let's vote. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Military Discipline” on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the draft law is on the agenda of the sitting. The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption is asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance””. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Committee on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption is asking for the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Administrative Penalty on Violations in the Field of Administration, Public Order and Use of the State Language” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members against this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption is asking for the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Pensions” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption is asking for the draft law Amending the Military Service Law to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Do Members have objections (Interface: Yes!) ) against this amendment of the agenda? Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the Military Service Law” on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation shall be included on the agenda of the sitting. The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption is asking for the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Patients’ Rights” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Cabinet of Ministers asks for the draft law “On the LNG terminal” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Mr. Valains, you'll talk... Is that so? ‘ Against” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U2	Dear colleagues, I am talking today about this extremely dubious draft law and will explain why we will definitely not support the further progress of this draft law. The Union of Greens and Farmers believes that this draft law is prepared in the interests of a single party sponsor and has nothing to do with Latvia's national energy security challenges. First of all, it is proposed that this draft law does not, by its very nature, introduce an environmental impact assessment for such an important and indeed, I think any project that normally understands a person. There should be a full environmental impact assessment here. In the past, such questions have already been addressed, for example, by the same Palestinians. And if someone has tried to compare with the fact that Paldiskos has not had an environmental impact assessment, - Paldiskos was, it was simply extended. Similarly, the promoters of this draft law have quite clearly stated that this is a very strategic investment, while investors who have applied to develop this project have done nothing of a nature for several years. Who didn't know about Skulte's terminal? I think a lot of people knew. For several years it has been discussed, but investors have done nothing to further develop this project, waiting for a certain moment to extort some state guarantees. And on the day when it was conceptually decided to move this issue, it was strangely talked about not by the Minister of Economics, but by the Minister of Justice... already promising that this project will have state guarantees and that it is the right practice to develop such projects. Later, as we found out, these entrepreneurs are not just intermediaries who are looking for an investor. As if all the safety authorities have checked, but at the same time these investors are now openly telling that their only plan is to sell this project to someone else. Colleagues, can we base our strategic interests on intermediaries like this? We think it can't work. All the secrecy that has reigned around this issue for years, and especially now in the final process... Any non-governmental organisation wishing to be involved in this process has been denied such an approach. In the course of this project, politicians' arguments change day by day. One thing is absolutely clear: of course, there will be state grants for such a project, there will be huge government grants. Call it what you want: long-term contracts, state guarantees - there is no difference. ‘ The head of Latvenergo said very specifically that he is not ready to sign any guarantees for this project, but it does not prevent politicians from exerting pressure and yet try to obtain the Latvenergo guarantee so that this project would also be financed from the State of Latvia. In our view, this approach is not acceptable. The country itself should develop such projects, be it in Riga, Liepaja or Ventspils. We have three major ports that could develop such projects without problems. The Union of Greens/Farmers already proposed such a solution in 2011. This was rejected by the government at that time. Now that problems have arisen, then we are looking for solutions, but the solution is to give this project back to intermediaries, intermediaries... strategic investment! Why was it to be... Is that so? A few years ago, many colleagues participated in this process - when we took over the Inčukalns gas storage in Latvia. Why did we do that? So did it all happen? Now you tell me that this one will sort out... Several years will pass until the project is implemented. Before the elections, that's the hurry. Where is the motivation? Where is the motivation to run suddenly?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, In our view, the country itself must develop such projects, not intermediate companies. If this Saeima wants to do this... with intermediate companies, I am sure that the next Saeima will revoke such a decision. Colleagues, I call you to be honest, do not do it right now. It is not worth it - to give over ten million to single intermediaries - to party sponsors.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U3	Thank you. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U4	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I think it would be quite difficult for me to condemn a party's sponsors, although there will certainly be attempts. In 2014, when I was faced with quite similar decisions or similar issues - whether to build the Skulte terminal or to build my own national liquefied gas terminal, as the Lithuanians did - and I had a meeting with Mr Ragauša, I nevertheless chose to go a different way. I chose to strengthen our interconnections, invest in Incukalns, try to attract investment also in the creation of the Dobele gas storage, saying that yes, we have Incukalns, maybe there will be Dobele and there will be access to the Polish Swinoujsce LNG terminal. This will give us at least two years, which would be the necessary deadline - if something happens, we could also set up our own national terminal. Today, my fellow Members, I have a question for those who are so strongly against the national liquefied gas terminal: from where you are offering to buy natural gas, which will certainly be necessary in at least the next 10 to 20 years, because at present we produce 60 per cent of electricity using natural gas using TEC. You offer that we continue to buy it from Russia, from Gazprom, you offer to buy it from Lithuanians or from Estonians? Then there is the question - let us assume this is the last one - how does it go with all those words in your party programmes, where you have probably all written that we will strengthen our energy independence, that we will promote investment directly in our territory? How does it all go together? I just had funny talk about how it could be... if Latvenergo could enter into any contract with our future national liquefied gas terminal! It's like here, from the pub, say-- how it can be-- if our Latvian school concludes contracts directly with Latvian farmers to, for example, deliver lunch to students! How is this even possible?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Ladies and gentlemen, it is still unclear to me why, already six months after 24 February, there is still a company in our country that is de facto Russian - Gazprom. In this company, as you know, the shareholder structure is such that Gazprom does not own 51 percent or any... There's another company there. The question is: what does this company do there at all, why does Gazprom own 50 or 51 percent? Why? What is the purpose of this company? It would be logical to conclude that the purpose of this company is to handle things here, in Latvia, to ensure that we continue to keep our energy on the basis of gas, on Russian gas. I think it is not difficult to take the “Latvijas Gas” profit and see how much interest is due to the company. Let's assume it takes half for itself, but the other half is definitely invested somewhere. Where and for what? That, in my opinion, is a very good question. I think this is not a coincidence that we have been unable to make a decision for half a year on the construction of our liquefied gas terminal and still... when the government finally takes a decision... Here, in the Saeima, there will be and certainly still be calls to stop all this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U5	Please call me! We will vote for inclusion of the draft law “On liquefied natural gas terminal” in the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation is on the agenda of the sitting. The Committee on Social and Labour Affairs is asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Labour Law” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. On the agenda - reports from the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Bureau of the Saeima proposes that the Member Viktoras Valaiņa, Jānis Dūklavs, Jānis Vucanas, Ulda Augulis, Janina Jalinska, Armands Krauze and other draft law submitted “Amendments to the Law on Excise Tax” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of handing over the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission to the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 31, 52, abstaining - not. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” presented by Member Viktors Valaiņa, Jānis Dūklavs, Jānis Vacāns, Ulda Augulis, Janina Jalinska and Armands Krauze be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission (Pause.) ... I'm sorry... The Bureau of the Saeima proposes that the Member Viktoras Valaiņa, Jānis Dūklavs, Jānis Vucanas, Ulda Augulis, Janina Jalinska, Armands Krauze and other draft law presented “Amendments to the Law on Real Estate Tax” be submitted to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Real Estate Tax”” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 30, 52, abstaining. - No. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” presented by Member Viktors Valaiņa, Jānis Dūklavs, Jānis Vacāns, Ulda Augulis, Janina Jalinska and Armands Krauze (No. 1630/Lp13) transferred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the Commission responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Please call us! To be put to the vote on the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax (No. 1630/Lp13) transfer of the budget and financial (tax) commission, making it a responsible commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 30, 51, abstain - not. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law on Social and Labour Affairs “Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Health Care” submitted by the Social and Labour Affairs Commission be referred to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Prevention of wastage of Financial Resources and Property of a Public Person” be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes the Member Viktors Valaiņa, Jānis Dūklavs, Ulda Augulis, Jānis Vucanas, Edgars Tatars and other draft laws on “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” (No. 1646/Lp13) transferred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission with responsibility for the Commission. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Please call us! To be put to the vote on the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax (No. 1646/Lp13) transfer to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, making it a responsible commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes the Member Kaspars Ģirgena, Erika Pucena, Karina Sprūde, Ramona Petraviča, Lubova Svekova and other draft law on “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” (No. 1647/Lp13) transferred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the Commission responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Kaspars Ģirgens.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U6	Dear colleagues, We have been providing energy support measures since 2021... proposals on how we can address this issue. One of the main issues was reduced value added tax. Similarly, some time ago, we called for prices to be frozen at one kilowatt hour, and these calls and suggestions were already several months in advance. My forecasts have fully met that the last week before the elections, there will be a proposal from the ministries and coalition to combat the energy crisis. And it turns out, it's just! Just like the opposition, freeze the kilowatt-hour. But a little bit, it's a little late. I would have liked to have seen such suggestions before, but better now than ever. That's why I'm next Saeima, 14. The Saeima, I would definitely like to focus more on the potential for reduced value added tax. We see an example in Lithuania at the moment when zero percentage points are applied to heating for the following two seasons. Lithuania also applied reduced value added tax to catering companies in the municipal crisis. We are aware that Latvian buses travel to Poland, where value added tax on food has also been reduced. So this is the way we should definitely think about. And not only to think and speak, but also to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U7	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Please call us! To be put to the vote on the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax (No. 1647/Lp13) transfer to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, making it a responsible commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 31, 50, abstain - not. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes the Member Ērika Pucena, Kaspars Ģirgens, Karina Sprūde, Ramona Petravičs, Lubova Švelova and other draft laws submitted "Amendments to the Law on the Exceptional Increase in Energy Prices" (No. 1648/Lp13) to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Kaspars Ģirgens.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U8	Each of you can go to the Day Business website today and get acquainted with the hospitality industry’s vision of how everything could develop further and whether there is a need for additional support mechanisms. The hospitality sector is not the only one that will need help. The catering industry will also need to help this season, because the Commi... used catering services. This train is so slow, slowly going, it's all accumulated, and we're also seeing the last bills that were prepared for entrepreneurs for August. We all know they were very big, even reached... entrepreneurs had to pay two or three times as much as they had in the previous months. And this is like a chain reaction when entrepreneurs suffer. They need help, but it is not provided in time. We have been talking for many years that these are the sectors that are, above all, suffering when there is some kind of shock on this economic market and people are certainly getting less used to both tourism and catering. We see that neighbouring countries are actively helping and realising that these are the sectors that live at a risk of self-life and that they must help at difficult times. During the Covid pandemic the beauty industry demanded, sports, tourism, catering... and its assistance was not timely and sufficient. Here, too, I wanted to mention the same thing that we need to help with what the industry itself is demanding. The catering industry is also one of those who still demands: “Please reduce value added tax!” That's why my travel names are 14. The Saeima should help these sectors, because it will help us to become more competitive when we get out of these crises, because early or late they will come to an end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U9	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Exceptional Increase in Energy Prices” (No. 1648/Lp13) transfer to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, making it a responsible commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 33, no one for - 47, no one for - 47. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Bureau of the Saeima proposes the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” presented by Member Viktors Valaiņa, Janina Jalinska, Ulda Augulis, Armands Krauze and Jānis Vacāns (No. 1649/Lp13) transferred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the Commission responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Please call us! To be put to the vote on the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax (No. 1649/Lp13) transfer to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, making it a responsible commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 30, no one for - 47, no one. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Support Law” presented by the Cabinet be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on the Extraordinary Increase of Energy Prices” (No. 1553/Lp13) transferred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission with responsibility for the Commission. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law on the Skulte liquefied natural gas terminal presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Against” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U10	Thank you for Your Honorable Development/About! that you tried to defend this bill. And I would like to draw attention to some of the things that the honourable Development/About! a representative. First of all, this is not a national project, a national gas storage, this is one Conservative Party... Hook project. This is not a national gas supply project. Let us be concrete! What the Union of Greens/Farmers stands for... We stand for the fact that such projects should be developed by the Latvian state - the state of Latvia, not the intermediary company. ( Interface: “But Entrepreneurship... “ We stand for the fact that such strategic projects, on which the electricity of Latvia, you mentioned, depend... Independence of Latvia - such projects should be developed for the Latvian state. Then let that ship be driven by anyone who wants it. Let's go, no matter who. Let's go, where you want. Let the free market work. But the infrastructure itself - it must be developed by the state itself so that it is in the hands of the state. ( Internouncing call.) And only in this way can we make sure that we have its security in nature. At the moment, the Conservative Party is also actively trying behind closed doors - away from the public, behind closed doors! - to bring this bill to government. The draft law was driven behind closed doors without the participation of anyone, regardless of what was happening there. I am convinced that this draft law is very poorly prepared. Dear colleagues, Public investment in this project will be extremely high, just through grants from state-owned enterprises. In our view, this terminal (interfaces. Medicines cause noise.) ... And the question... whether it will happen (Interim: ‘... Is Saulkrasti where better?’ )... whether it will take place in Skulte, Riga or in any other place, but it should be owned by the state. We believe that this cannot be given back to private operators (interim.) - Party sponsors... batch (Sound noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) sponsors who deserve the project will make tens, perhaps even hundreds of millions, of profits in the coming years. Now, before the elections, a bill is being driven behind closed doors in the interests of one party. Colleagues, this approach cannot be supported. You simply cannot support it! ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U11	Colleagues, I ask you to be aware that you are at the Saeima sitting. Please choose the expressions that are relevant to the work of the Saeima Member. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U12	Dear colleagues, I don't know why I have to do this, maybe the parliamentary secretary of the Ministry of Economics is sick today or how... It would be his direct job to defend today the draft law drawn up by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, supported by the government and passed on to the Saeima. I too... Thank you to Mr Valaiņa for his clarification of this heading. So we realized that yet... If I understand correctly this position that... Yes, we need the liquefied gas terminal, of course, but as far as I understand Mr Valaiņš is in favour of it being built by a public investor and not by a private investor with State aid. Good question. If we look at our neighbours, then we can see that there is both one option and another. The Lithuanian liquefied gas terminal in Klaipeda was designed as a complete... completely from the State, absolutely... at his own time. What the Estonians together with the Finnishs now make is a private company, a private investment with state support: EUR 38 million guarantee from the Estonian State. For those who are somewhat economic oriented, it is clear that in such markets, where competition develops for so-called strategic capacity... Either, so to speak, nothing happens, or the state takes on a role that may not always come from the parliamentary tribunal. But at the same time... Let us ask ourselves, colleagues: is all this dispute about whether a public or private company, a private Latvian company with state support, will do so - is this dispute worth it to extort the whole project as such? Our neighbours who have set up such terminals will certainly be happy about this. That is also a question. We will now be spending another six months talking about whether it should be private or public... That could in principle have been done... There was enough time to do so over the last six months. Regarding whether it is beneficial or not beneficial, either, of course, here mathematics is also quite simple. The terminals created by Lithuania, which is made up of Estonia, are costing close to 500 million euros if we include the cost of establishing piers together, how much it costs... Well, in principle, buy a so-called FSRU ship. Here we are talking about the costs that are at 120... so if we have one side of one apple, on the other side - five apples... We can, so to speak, evaluate and order Ernst & Young and so on, and clarify as much as we want. But from it one apple does not become five apples, and five apples do not become one. Such things happen when we have one apple and another apple... Well, it's not like that on the eye, it's clear which one of them is bigger. All right, let's start the assessment. But if 500 against 120... or even 130 or 140... there's something... I mean, somehow... you have to go to the decision, colleagues. That's why I... Good question. I think it is a direct obligation for the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs to explain why it is, not otherwise,. But overall, it is not a reason, my fellow Members, not to support this draft law at first reading today. I therefore call for support, for the way forward, for answers to be given to those who have questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U13	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “On the LNG terminal” to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 53, against - 32, refrains - not. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. The decision ‘On the approval of Aija Briede as a district (city) court judge’. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U14	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 20 September this year, the draft decision ‘On the approval of Aija Briede as a judge of a district (city) court’ was considered. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call on Aija Briede to approve the judge of district (city) court without any limitation of his term of office.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U15	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the approval of Aija Briede as a district (city) court judge! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. The draft decision ‘On the approval of Christian Grossogel as a judge of a district (city) court’. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U16	At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 20 September this year, the draft decision ‘On the approval of Christian Grossogele as a judge of a district (city) court’ was examined. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I would like to confirm Christian Grossogel as the judge of the district (city) court without any limitation of his term of office. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U17	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the approval of Christian Grossogeles as a district (city) court judge”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. The next item is "Provision of draft legislation". Draft law “Law on State Defence Service”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U18	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Hello, Minister! Dear colleagues, Dear sitting viewers and listeners! The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption has examined the draft law “Law on the State Defence Service” and the package of draft laws drafted by the Ministry of Defence and approved by the Cabinet of Ministers and is leading the examination in the Saeima. This is a very important issue and will be followed by an appropriate report. The draft law is prepared in response to changes in the security situation and taking into account the challenges of recruitment of National Armed Forces personnel. The duty to serve will be for all Latvian citizens – men, as well as on a voluntary basis – for those Latvian citizens who wish to do so. A citizen will be able to serve from the age of 18. Following the Russian invasion of Ukraine on 24 February 2022, the security situation in Europe has changed. This war shows that the political readiness of the Russian leadership to carry out full-scale unhindered military attacks on neighbouring countries, which Russia sees as its sphere of influence, has increased significantly. The strong defence of Ukraine has given Latvia time to prepare - to develop its defence capabilities. The amount of defence forces, in particular staff, must be competitive. It is also necessary to ensure as fully as possible the readiness of the general public and public administration to ensure all functions of everyday life also in the context of war, while at the same time being able to take care of their safety and provide support for defence efforts. In order to ensure that Latvia's independence can be fully protected in the future, the area of protection must become an integrated part of society as a whole. The National Defence Concept and the National Armed Forces Development Plan for 2020-2032 state that in 2027 the numerical composition of the armed forces should reach 28 thousand soldiers. This structure was mainly intended to be equipped with professional service soldiers and landguards, reinforcing it by a small number of spare soldiers. The current development of the National Armed Forces was carried out by prioritising the continued ability to respond rapidly to situations of threat, as well as the modernisation and training of existing personnel's armaments. These goals are now being achieved, however, a fully voluntary system has reached its limits, and according to the Ministry of Defence, the highest development ambitions of the National Armed Forces required for security of Latvia cannot be achieved only within the framework of the existing system. Current recruitment trends confirm that there is no reason to predict a significant increase in the number of professional services and personnel of the Land Guard. In view of the change in the security situation in the region and the new structure of the National Armed Forces, which is planned to be twice as large as 51,000 personnel, it is planned to... All of this is also summarised in the Information Report on the State Defence Service. Implementation of the National Defence Service will guarantee that national protection will be ensured by the necessary number of personnel, and will reach it significantly faster than relying on the voluntary principle. General military obedience is, without exception, an essential precondition for public participation in national defence, as this avoids relative segregation. This means that the obligation to perform the service is equal for all citizens and not just for those who did not know or did not know how to avoid service. In the long term, a significantly larger proportion of society will be prepared for crisis situations. Latvian society must be aware of the most important prerequisite for survival - the greater the number of people trained and trained in the military will be, the less likely it will be for another country... and another country is willing to direct its military aggression against Latvia. It is envisaged that a comprehensive system of summons should be established over five years to identify the men who have actually reached all 18 years of age, to assess their compliance with the national defence service and to call as many citizens as possible into the service. The newly created state defence service should become a self-evident stage of involvement of every male of Latvian citizen in national defence, as much as possible supporting and promoting the involvement of female volunteers in the service. It is essential to ensure that the scope of the term is as wide as possible in order to exclude the emergence of potential injustice, where only a small proportion of young people are called. The following ways of execution of the state defence service are planned to be developed: service in the National Armed Forces unit, service in the Land Guard, university students, chaplain service and medical persons to receive the national defence training programme. At the same time, it is planned to introduce a civil service, which will be governed by a separate law (the alternative service is designated by the words “public civil service” in all national regulations), this draft law is developed and it is planned to guide and adopt it next year. The new system will gradually be implemented over the next five years, strengthening the combat capabilities of the National Armed Forces and building a reserve of armed forces. The National Defence Service is planned to be established on January 1, 2023, with the first appointment being fully completed from citizens who will apply for it on a voluntary basis, but from the second half of 2023 – both offering persons to join the National Defence Service on a voluntary basis and inviting citizens to call the number of persons required. It is planned that in 2028 up to 6000 soldiers of the State Defence Service could be recruited for service in NBS units, in addition to 1,200 soldiers of the State Defence Service would be assigned to the Earthguard, and up to 300 would receive a state defence training programme for university students. At the moment, it is planned that citizens who, because of their thoughts, conscience and religion, are not able to carry out their active service and citizens whose health status is in line with the national defence service but who for some other reason do not wish to perform the public defence service will be replaced by the public civil service. As until the adoption of this special law, it will not be possible to provide national defence services for certain categories, then the call will only be voluntary in the first half of 2023. The State Defence Service will be carried out in one of the following ways: 11 months in the regular forces of the National Armed Forces or in the Land Guard Unit; not less than five years in the Land Guard as a whole, in the performance of service tasks not less than 21 individual training days and not more than 7 collective training days each year; in the course of learning the national defence training programme for university students; in the course of learning the national defence training programme for the chaplain service; in the course of learning the national protection training programme for medical persons. It is foreseen that a decision on non-invitation to the national defence service shall be taken in respect of a citizen whose health condition does not comply with the requirements of the national defence service; a citizen who has been punished for a serious or particularly serious crime - regardless of the deletion or removal of the criminal record; a citizen who has been convicted of a criminal offence referred to in paragraph 2 of this Section by release of a penalty or criminal proceedings on a non-rehabiliatory basis; a citizen who has also been a national of another state and who has served in a foreign military service or has served a civil service; a professional service soldier who has served in a professional service for a continuous period of not less than three years; a graduate of the Professional Secondary School of Colonel Oskar Kalpaks; an officer of the Home Affairs of the Republic of Latvia and Prison Administration, as well as an official of the State Security Authority with a degree of special service, who has been permanently serving in those institutions for a continuous period of not less than three years. It is foreseen that a decision on deferment of summonment in the national defence service shall be taken in respect of a citizen who obtains general education, as well as a citizen who acquires professional secondary education, vocational education, vocational secondary education after acquiring primary education or studies in the further vocational training programme; a citizen who has been convicted or accused in criminal proceedings; a citizen who has been punished for an offence; a citizen who has custody of a child, if the other parent is dead or the other parent is not able to exercise custody, as well as a citizen who, by decision of the orphan court, takes care of a child; a citizen who has been convicted or accused in criminal proceedings; a citizen who has been punished for an offence; a citizen who has been convicted of a criminal offence; a citizen of the state security institution with a degree of special service in the said institutions; a professional service soldier who is serving in the professionalservice ; a citizen who has been appointed as guardian of the professional secondary school of OskarKalpakas ; a citizen who needs to be suspended in the state defence service due to the healthsituation. Although the arrest of citizens who are also nationals of another country and who have served in a foreign military service or who have served a civil service, will not be carried out within the national defence service, this regulation does not prevent the abovementioned persons from applying to the national defence service on a voluntary basis. Default... and is also being discussed about many social guarantees and opportunities for personal growth during the state defence service. Compensation for service tasks will be available in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Cabinet of Ministers – in the amount of 300 euros planned (in the hall noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) , on voluntary application - 600 euro; lodging of accommodation in barracks; provision of maintenance; paid health care, primary, secondary health care, outpatient and hospital care; compensation of 1100 euro; compensation of injuries, illness paid after service; possibility to return to the study process in the same condition as before service; employer is obliged to maintain a place of work. Further opportunities to strengthen personal growth are also discussed. During the service according to the specialist will be able to learn the driver's skills, to stand for the Altum guarantee for the purchase of housing – similar to the professional service. The main benefits of the State Defence Service: filled-in structure of the National Armed Forces; the militaryly trained and prepared part of society, which has the knowledge and capacity to act in both military and civil crisis situations; the prerequisite for a more rapid development of the regional battalions of the National Armed Forces; closer cooperation with municipalities and development of the defence industry in the regions; promotion of cohesion and resilience of society; young people – new skills, knowledge and contacts. In order to avoid attempts by instigated persons to avoid (Sun noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) from the performance of the public defence service, it is planned to determine the responsibility for avoiding the public defence service. The soldiers called upon to act unlawfully and the soldiers of the national defence service will be called on to disciplinary, administrative or criminal liability depending on who committed the violation and the severity of the violation. Default... So for the extra funding actually needed in 2023-2025, the Ministry of Defence... This affects the budget allocated and is partly already included in the budget base. The Ministry of Defence also informed the Commission about three possible scenarios to achieve implementation of the state defence service with appropriate funding. First, to increase the funding for defence much faster - three per cent of GDP already in 2025 - which would bring the greatest benefits in strengthening protection. Secondly, to increase the funding for defence - 2.75 per cent of GDP in 2026 and up to three per cent in 2027 - which would provide for a faster but smoother timetable for the implementation of the national defence service. Third, to introduce within the framework of the funding allocated to the protection of the state defence services, which would mean transferring significant combat capabilities of the National Armed Forces in a further perspective...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U19	Colleagues, Colleagues! Mr. Stein, stop! We are talking about the state defence service. Colleagues, I am calling for an intermediate call. - let the rapporteur report from the station! Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U20	It's not just an annotation. You're not listening well. And, of course, the Commission, when assessing everything, also decided to support the urgency of the draft law, and I would like to state a number of reasons. The law must therefore enter into force as soon as possible, as the first designation is planned for January 1, 2023. By that date, a number of events should be organised, such as calls for voluntary applications to the service. Similarly, the national defence service is a matter of national security, and the establishment of the service is influenced by geopolitical events. The greater the share of society that is militaryly trained and trained, the less likely it will be for Latvia to experience in the future the same things that Ukraine is currently experiencing. In recent years, the Saeima has supported an increase in the defence budget, so we are now working... work towards the acquisition in the near future of new weapons systems previously thought about and capable of assisting in the implementation of the national defence service. There has also been a drop in the rate of recruitment of the professional service soldiers, the influx of the Earthguard is wave-like, and in the present situation it can no longer be trusted that the state and its people will only be protected on a voluntary basis. The implementation of the National Defence Service will also allow the use of the professional service personnel and the Earthguard capabilities to strengthen the combat capabilities of the National Armed Forces in general. Taking into account that it was said in the Commission that in parallel to the work of the Saeima on this regulatory package, ministries work in working groups to carry out preparatory and improvement work, several planned improvements were already outlined in the meeting of the committee, which will be submitted as proposals for second reading. The majority of the Commission decided to support the urgency of these draft laws and draft laws. Please decide on this, too, for the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U21	Thank you. Initiating the debate (Dep. Stein: “On the urgency.” )... The urgency... Please call... Did Mr. Bergmanis want to talk about urgency? ( The box “No! ”) ) No. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Law on the State Defence Service” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 55, for - 20, for - 2. The draft law has been declared urgent. Let's start a debate. Name to the Minister of Defence, Mr Pabrik.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U22	“On the junctions a small child is playing / Under the wheels of the wheel, under the litters, / Under the iron tracks. // Small baby at the crucifixes, / How time for it the sand flows through the fingers. / That's our freedom, / That's our life.” Why did I start with this lyrical derogation? We also have a choice of how to act in the Saeima and in the country these days, months, and years to come. We can do everything to strengthen our Latvia, or we can postpone, we can wait, we can hesitate and hope that the storm will not come. The greatest value in life is the time that has been given us. The world is currently facing a major geopolitical challenge. The war of the 21st century has once again become a reality in Europe. Russian Occupied Shoe Mid Ukraine Land, Russian soldiers kill, rape, steal and humiliate. War in Europe is not on screens, YouTube or TikTok. The bloody war is here with us, in Ukraine, while the economic war is taking place with us and against us. We have a choice, standing at a crucifixes and watching the time runs: we can do everything to protect our freedom not only by words but by works, by clearly saying that the invaders will be welcomed by a bullet; or we can count on the opponent's mercy - we know what it is - and expect with flowers. We can unite on behalf of Latvia or continue to defend narrow party positions, we can import food, we can import weapons and everything we need, or be economic patriots and produce ourselves - not by creating Twitter accounts or Twitter texts, but goods, jobs and prosperity. My choice is clear. And today, honourable Members, I call on you to support the plan proposed by the Ministry of Defence of Latvia and the National Armed Forces to strengthen our army by introducing a state defence service. It is a courageous decision on the reform aimed at full brigades in our army, a reserve, knowledgeable and patriotic citizens and a strong civilian service. We offer to go a difficult but proper way, which will result in Latvia having more than 50,000 military patriots in five years. The national defence service will give skills, confidence, knowledge, it will give equality and association, it will benefit the labour market, and it will give confidence to itself and its country - things that we are so lacking in everyday life. It will not be easy to carry out this reform, but the National Armed Forces and the Ministry of Defence are ready to take on this huge work because we have no choice. There is no other option to guarantee and maintain security in our Latvia. When we see the difficulties and pains that must pass through the Ukrainian people, we do not hesitate to remember our lives in the Soviet Union, we remember the elderly and parents in the populated camps in Siberia and here on the streets of Riga, when our languages were called dog language by the Occupants and made it speak Russian. We are not prepared to wish to experience the same for our children and grandchildren, so we must be prepared both to defend Latvia and to overcome these winter difficulties caused by economic war and energy prices. When we find it difficult, let us remember how difficult it is for Ukrainians and how difficult it was for our parents, let us remember that without safety there will be nothing in Latvia. The National Defence Service is a thoughtful and carefully planned reform that will make Russia count on us. The National Defence Service is the insurance policy for our freedom and our life. This is the path that I call on you, honourable Members, to choose from the present geopolitical crossings. Time doesn't wait, it runs through our fingers. Let us be wise and united for Latvia, because without security there will be nothing!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U23	Thank you to the Minister for Defence. Name to Member Raimond Bergman.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U24	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! Minister! I too had a choice to come here today or not to come. That was my choice. That's our attitude, our desire. I read it inscription: “Latvia is an independent democratic republic.” We are discussing today a draft law that applies to every citizen of this country. The price of this bill is higher than the entire annual defence budget. You could say, even twice. I hope that we will have the same quality of self-esteem (as is emphasised - quality!) prepare and implement so that we are ready to defend our country. I support what the Minister said: we need readiness... And those promises about the quality we've heard preparing... and those people who have warned that if we do not introduce it too qualitatively in the early stages, we can get what we wanted. How we are discussing this draft law today - the Speaker of the Saeima had to stop you, Members! I don't want to criticise anyone... I've dedicated my life years to the field of defence... But can we do so, as we are now doing - towards ourselves, against Parliament? The greatest respect for Dean Meister, who also had a choice in the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption yesterday - to obey and not to say anything. Head of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, Head of the Legal Bureau of the Parliament. Listen, if the parliament has no self-esteem, then there is no self-esteem! In my opinion, the Cabinet of Ministers should submit a comprehensive draft law at the Saeima, not the ministries should come to the committee meeting and tell about the shortcomings of the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers, what proposals are still to be submitted, what amendments are to be made and what else should be done. I'm sorry, but I really don't understand. I do not understand how something of a poor quality can be accepted - so poorly prepared on a conceptual and fundamental issue that affects the interests of the whole country at this point. That is not what I say, it is what Parliament's Legal Office has said. Well, let's think... We are now deciding on this draft law, which I support, but at the time of the information report it is stated that the Minister of Defence should submit to the Cabinet, before 1 December 2022, specified costs for the implementation of the national defence service. We are deciding what we do not yet know, how much it will cost. How, then, did we go through this rather difficult period of consultation, during which Members dared to say something? Yeah, that was really my conscious choice. I don't know how it ends. Perhaps I will no longer be among Members in this House on Saturday, but I will be able to be honest in the eyes of the people. ( Milestones.) I will also try to do it in good faith, unlike maybe... Some of the things that the party in question has addressed are not far too successful. I would be very sorry if such important things as protection and security in our country... if we were to make the same mistakes there as we did elsewhere. That is what I am saying today. Let's listen to an annotation of the bill, which cannot be changed, which has been recorded. Let’s start with a simple case: ‘Are alternative solutions assessed?’ - "Yes." Very good. ‘ Have the proportionality of requirements and costs been assessed against the benefits?’ - "No." ‘Is it going to be done?’ - "No." I think that there is no secret - and the Minister and the rest of the people have always said so - that this issue concerns the whole of society. I was hoping that with that, too... everything would be discussed and spoken. According to the opinion, “institutions involved in project development” If, at the very beginning, we say that it is basically a comprehensive national defence, then I think we should meet everyone and discuss how this will affect their future lives. Non-governmental organisations consulted: Latvian Students' Association, Latvian Family Doctors' Association. Where is the Union of Local Governments of Latvia, where is the Confederation of Employers of Latvia, where is the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Latvia? They won't? From the same annotation: ‘The horizontal impact’. Will the project cover the development of information and communication technologies of the state and municipality? - no; to the development of territories? - No; to the environment? - no; on data protection (which we talked about yesterday, the Ministry stressed exactly this)? - Annotated - no. And in conclusion, will this apply to the Diaspora? Annotated - no! (Applause) Is it a quality draft law?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Well, I'm done... I apologise for my emotionality, we will immediately approve the 10 accompanying draft laws - 10! - which we didn't even differ in the commission yesterday. We voted for the number written on the bill. In the Saeima Commission we did not discuss the following draft laws: “Amendments to the Law on the Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions”, “Amendments to the Law on Official Electronic Addresses”, “Amendment to the Law on the National Armed Forces”, “Amendment to the Law on the Service of Military Persons’ Pensions”, “Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance”, “Amendment to the Law on Administrative Penalty in the Field of Administration, Public Order and Use of the State Language”, “Amendment to the Law on State Pensions”, “Amendments to the Law on Military Service” and “Amendment to the Law on Patients’ Rights”. How can we gain the trust of the people in Parliament if we did not even differ - even different! I'm sorry. Once again, I would like to thank Mrs Meistere for her courage. And think: how can we change people's attitude towards us if we work in this way with such an essential draft law that affects the everyday life, life and, in particular, protection and security of our entire country! Thank you. It was a privilege to serve Latvia! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U25	Name to Member Aigar Bikšem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U26	Good afternoon, Madam President-in-Office of the Saeima. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The capabilities of the national army depend both on modern weapons and on the military’s belief in the righteous nature of the battle. There is great hope that a country that is fair to its citizens will also be well defended. I would now like to talk - in the context of the law - about the state defence service. In my opinion, we are faced with an important question about which citizens are obliged to participate in the national defence service and be adequately prepared for national defence. At present, the legislative proposals state that they will be men. In my opinion, the idea of gender equality, especially among young people, is rooted in and organically exists in today's society, namely in the group that will be faced with the obligation to learn to carry out military duties, to protect the country and, in the event of danger, to put this knowledge into practice. The idea of equality in society should not be removed in the face of the obligation to learn to protect the country. Countries such as Sweden and Norway have also decided that all citizens should prepare for national defence. I do not think that this is only done because of the threat. I think that these countries in this way increase the sense of justice and equality in society. I am convinced that the ability of citizens to protect their country is directly linked to the citizens' conviction that the country they will defend at risk of their lives and health is fair and good. Our country is now developing a new concept based on the participation of all citizens in national defence. In developing this concept, we would not be able to build it on the 19th century ideas. I can't see why there is one group of people in an equal society who do something mandatory, but another gets the exclusive right not to do so. This principle, in my opinion, would not be fair. The arrangements we have put in place in relation to this obligation of citizens must be based on today's realities, both as regards the whole of military activities, the means of fighting, as well as the public's understanding of the citizen's obligation and of which citizens are subject to any exceptions. I understand the conservative nature of the defence centre on this issue, but I would like to call for an assessment of the challenges and benefits of today's society in creating a modern idea of national defence. In Israel, where we know there is a very effective and good army, both sexes are trained and educated in a military way. I would also like to mention one aspect that may be relevant from the point of view of integration. While thinking of the fact that, of course, the main focus of training is military knowledge - the ability to handle modern weapons - and the development of the physical capacity of soldiers, but a very important part of the human being also belongs to culture. I would like to draw attention to the cultural component of this programme. Here, too, I would like to mention the example of Israel. A few years ago, as an artist, I visited Israel and was surprised that the groups of young soldiers – women and men – were present when visiting various museums. And it wasn't just a history museum, I was at a contemporary art museum, where I saw groups of soldiers. This means that an experienced and effectively organised society such as Israel is able to assess the cultural aspects of the common military training programme, and these young people also benefit from a range of cultural knowledge without military knowledge. In today's societies, where citizens live in many information bubbles, such an opportunity is, in my opinion, an invaluable instrument for the integration of society. We have an archaeological example: the Greek soldiers, who fought against the Persian army in relatively small numbers, a huge power. I think this is not just because they were militaryly trained and physically strong, but it was because they belonged to a culture that was worth defending and worth fighting for. In general, I support this draft law and ask colleagues to support it as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U27	Thank you. Mr Rancan, will you have enough debates to break? Name to Member Juris Rancan.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U28	Dear colleagues, I will try to say the main things briefly and succinctly. First of all, we all know that the enemy has announced partial mobilisation, is currently training already trained soldiers, but at this moment we are only trying to introduce a national defence service - a long, endless process of discussion. Colleagues, geopolitical situation, the pace of escalation and the rhythm of what is happening dictate their own rules. Those who fail to prepare their own military reserve in time will not be able to train their own people will lose a great deal in the battlefield, in terms of defence and in terms of everything else. Colleagues, if this is because someone has not met these draft laws, with which some words must be corrected in some laws, it does not seem acceptable to me. I would like to remind, including Mr Bergmanis, that the Ministry of Defence presented all draft laws, all 11, not just this one - the Law of the State Defence Service, in its PowerPoint presentation in the responsible commission. Mr Bergmanis had to get acquainted with each of these draft laws before he voted and he voted in favour before the sitting. Mr. Bergmanis, if you have not met them, but have voted in favour, then it is your responsibility. One more thing. Mr Bergmanis had time, he spoke for almost 20 minutes, but if we talked about each of these draft laws for 20 minutes and each Member took 20 minutes, we could adopt the draft law by the new year. I fear that we do not have time until the new year, we need to start (Internext.) training soldiers from January, and also then - should we not start even more quickly? We can spend time on bureaucratic discussions, but the Covid-19 crisis also showed that the only way to bring about a rapid change is to adopt a law and then amend it. We're doing endlessly. (Interfaces.) ... We are making endless changes - depending on the situation - to the Ukrainian civilian support law, because it is not possible to anticipate all situations at once, because there will always be an unresolved issue in the course of application. Colleagues, I call for time not to delay, with formal and minor grounds, the adoption of the Law on the State Defence Service. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U29	Thank you. Mrs. Steel, you don't have enough time to break? Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue the debate after a break. I have a statement. Dear colleagues, on 25 September our half-round anniversary was celebrated by our fellow Member Ramona Petraviča and Inese Lībiņa–Egnere, and yesterday's 80th anniversary was celebrated by Atis Lejiņš. We welcome them! (Applause) Please call me! Please register the Members! Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman for a statement.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U30	I informed you that a meeting of the Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy was convened at 10.35. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U31	Name Andrejs Klementyevs to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U32	Good morning, honourable Members! There have not been registered 10 members: Gundars Dauge, Artuss Kaimiņš, Ivans Klementjevs, Jānis Krišāns, Viesturs Liepkalns, Ralfs Nemiro, Inguna Rībena, Edvins Šnore, Jānis Urbanovičs and Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U33	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U34	Dear colleagues, I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room. We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. In taking on and acting in this capacity, he has therefore actively supported actions and policies which undermine the territorial integrity, sovereignty and We are continuing the debate. Name of Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U35	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! War in Europe and our security situation call for strengthening defence capabilities. We have already decided that we will devote 2.5 per cent of GDP to defence needs. Internal security and our self-defence capabilities must also be strengthened. The Ministry of Defence offers a state defence service. It is a service that prepares our citizens for national defence. This is necessary and should be supported. The new service will introduce a new obligation for national citizens. This obligation must be universal for all citizens of the country in the specific age group, both for men and women; for those living in Latvia and those living outside the country. Breeding by gender is discrimination when there is no reason to do so. Does the national defence service have grounds for using gender as a reason not to fulfil a citizen’s duty to the state? In my opinion, there is no such basis. Women are already serving in every form of service offered today. The ministry's concept for women also provides a service - on a voluntary basis. Women are invited to the service not only in Israel but also in Sweden and Norway. In 2013, the Norwegian Parliament adopted a decision on a compulsory service for women, which started to be implemented in 2015. Norway is the first NATO country to stop calling on compulsory service by gender. In its debate, the Norwegian Parliament pointed out that such a step was not due to a lack of men but to the need to be able to select the best motivated and most competent people for national defence from a wider range of applicants. ( The drug is noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) In 2018, 25.2 percent of those called were women, and in 2020 - 33 percent. In response to Norway’s positive example, Sweden has also been inviting both men and women to the service since 2018. In 2018, 16 percent of those called were women, and each year these percentages are increasing. Today's young people in a particular age group - from 18 to 27 - perceive gender equality as self-evident. Half of the citizens are released from their obligations to the state - these young people see it as injustice. That is why I will table amendments which will impose the same obligations on both men and women. Aware that the establishment of the service itself will take place gradually, this universal obligation could also enter into force gradually. We ask Latvian citizens outside Latvia to participate in the national defence service, and indeed this obligation must be universal, but it must be understood that a young person outside Latvia is in a different situation than a young person in Latvia. In the process of calling, it will not be possible for the Ministry to rely on the acquisition of information from the Latvian registers; the data will not be found in e-health, in the Penal Register or elsewhere. These young people will not be subject to the same guarantees offered to young people living in Latvia: study places will not be able to be preserved, jobs will not be able to be preserved. Even getting to the place of service... It's one thing from Riga, but getting from Sydney or Los Angeles - quite another. The obligation to participate in national defence must be universal, but we must take into account that citizens outside the country are in a different situation, and we must be able to answer very practical questions about how this obligation will be fulfilled by those who live outside Latvia. At the moment there are no answers yet, therefore, I will propose transitional provisions for the draft law, which will provide that Latvian citizens outside Latvia are to be included in the loop as of 1 January 2024, so that we can resolve ourselves the outstanding issues regarding Latvian citizens living in the Diaspora. In Latvia, we are at a starting point with the establishment of this service, and I call on our service to create not to be appropriate to past templates, but with a view in the future. Let us create a service that is fully prepared for the participation of all citizens of the country, not one that will have to be changed when NATO countries, on the one hand, follow the example of Norway and Sweden. Both Norway and Sweden have recognised that national protection can be strengthened if the service can best be selected from among a wide range of citizens, using the principle of the right person in the right place. By involving all citizens of the country in national defence, we will be safer, with stronger defence capabilities. I call for support for the draft law and for all of us to be aware that we are on the public security watch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U36	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U37	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I grew up in one of the Riga microdistricts, mainly spending time with friends in the yard. As many people of my generation know, at those times even the analogue phone was rare. There were perhaps five Latvians in our courtyard, and we didn't hear the Latvian language in particular, and of course I didn't feel the need for it when I was a child. Then I studied in Russian school; in my class there was one Latvian - it was much more than in other classes. At school, I too did not have close contact with Latvians. The teachings of Latvian were, of course, but at the end of the hours, we continued our daily life in our world. Colleagues! If one of you wants to think that it is very different at the moment, then, unfortunately, I have to upset you. The reality is perhaps a little salty, perhaps even improved much, but we should not deceive ourselves that without a common goal and without a civil awareness, we will be able to overcome any crisis, provocation, internal or external aggression. Colleagues! We have a neighbour with whom we can say that our relationship has reached its climax. Many, including myself, had long thought that, whatever our neighbour might be, we should strive to live with it; that we should try to build constructive cooperation, especially in the area of economics. That is what I can do today. I can be blamed for it. Well, looking at today's eyes, of course, to justify... I am aware of this, I am ready to take responsibility for it, and I have taken responsibility for it. And I call on all my fellow Members to do so, from all political forces. Colleagues, today we are where we are: 24 February, morning of February, has changed our world until we know it. It changed, destroyed, it continued to destroy people's fate, families, disintegrating society. It changed the world of me and my closest friends, it changed our society as a whole. And whatever we want to wake up from this nightmare, it's a reality and it's still going on. We all, of course, hope that the heroism of Ukraine and the support of allies, including ours, will help Ukraine to win this war. We all hope that Russians will find the courage to fight tyranny in their country, to throw down the dictator, to come to common sense. Of course, we have to look forward to the best, but we also have to look at the worst scenarios. We have to take into account the scenarios that nothing will end in at least the next two years; we have to take into account the scenarios that in the foreseeable future the world will become a much more complex and dangerous place than the one we have used to in the last 30 years. We must take into account the scenario that in the foreseeable future we will live next to a poor country, but armed to the ears and with hope and rhetoric to return to the former power, celebrity, to the Soviet Union... and with statements that its borders do not end anywhere and that their borders do not exist at all. Dear colleagues, No matter how painful or unpleasant it may be, we need to understand that, as it were, there will never be any more. The world has changed. We are NATO, we have strong allies, we are in the protection of Article 5, but we must also take care of our own security. Colleagues, it would be absolutely naive - think that 7000 professional soldiers together with another 9000 landguards will be able to protect us... protect our country against the population of another aggressive country: 144 million people. We must be prepared to defend ourselves, we must be prepared to crisis situations and be prepared to show our strength and resilience, and with “we” I mean Latvian society. And from this obligation we cannot buy back with 7,000 professional soldiers. Today, colleagues, we will decide here on a national defence service, which will be one of our safeguards, because our young people and the future of our country will be prepared to prevent aggression and provide support in the event of crisis and disasters. Colleagues, it is not just military readiness; it is also the ability to identify your country, the ability to orient itself in your environment, territory, the ability to strategically think and predict the development of various events. The national defence service will also be an essential foundation for the consolidation of society, as I mentioned at the beginning of my speech. This is also an opportunity to undermine ethnic or other walls in society. We can show that all those living in Latvia are their own, and unite, defending our freedom. The National Defence Service will be... There will also be a question of personal power. Young people will have the opportunity to supplement their knowledge and skills later... It's as good... help protect and support our neighbors, strengthen discipline that will help future careers. These are also some of the reasons why, for example, in Finland the service has become a question of prestige, which is proof of your resilience. Our freedom, colleagues, is based on our security, and our security is in our hands, and our future is a safe and free Latvia. Colleagues! I would like to add a few more things to this. We have today, as we know, a pre-election period in which it is difficult to make decisions on important issues, because it is not always possible to understand whether any objections, such as this particular issue... whether they are in essence, or are only part of the pre-election rhetoric, the pre-election struggle. I think that it would help that, if those objections were substantive and substantive, then we would also be speaking specifically: where there are certain shortcomings, the shortcomings in this particular draft law, which is specifically about points, should be eliminated. Colleagues, those who oppose - then, please come with concrete proposals or specify specific problems, areas! The fact that the annotation is not properly prepared... We don't know how much it's going to cost... Well, would it be the first time we make a decision without knowing how much it will cost? Especially colleagues from... Do we not know what the effect is on the diaspora? Either colleagues from the opposition... Well, I don't know... Let us only take some of your draft laws presented at this sitting today. For example, Mr. Bergmanis has also signed... on value added tax. What's there, an argument said about how much it's going to cost and what's going to be the effect on the diaspora? There's no annotation at all. Well, if we ask of others in this way, we also need to meet such requirements ourselves. So again: if it's really the essence... If you believe that this draft law contains cases which, within two weeks - within the time limit for submitting proposals - are not reparable, bad smell, come in, speak specifically, then the Minister of Defence will also give you concrete answers... can’t answer. It will then be possible to draw conclusions from all this. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U38	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U39	Dear colleagues, Ladies and gentlemen! Since the restoration of Latvia's independence and the creation of the first military units (first, the security service or, as they are called, the white Berettes, then the Earthguard, then somebody was, but the mandatory service, then the professional army, the new unit) all our decisions to join NATO... And that's where to join... was aimed at one objective, one aim – to protect Latvia's independence against possible Russian aggression. We are not going to war with Estonia, Lithuania or San Marino. The only thing we had been preparing for all these 30 years of war was Russia's aggression. Russia is our only external and natural enemy. Why do I say "natural"? Because regardless of who manages Russia - from President to a daily citizen - they have always seen and will also see us as their lost territory in the future. Only different tastes - someone sees us as a part of the Soviet Union and wants to restore it, someone sees us as a part of Russia and wants to restore it. It does not matter, both of these scenarios predict the end of our country's independence. We were preparing for 30 years, developing the concept of national defence, the last we approved here in this Parliament, two years ago. And now that these foreseeable threats become... has become a reality, and Russia has already started the second war, where, at least at the beginning of the war, we were clearly marked as a goal (if we look at Putin's speech about the Soviet Union), now that this threat really happens, we are starting to think historically, we are beginning to change everything in a row, actually saying that what we did before was wrong, what we did together with NATO was wrong somewhere. That is the message we want to pass on to our society, to our allies. We have, to a large extent, destabilised the army, the military, split the army's leadership, we know that the army's leadership does not support this pre-election programme, which is being carried out for Development/About! We know that very clearly. The concept of national defence continues to record that military training in schools is more effective than compulsory military service. We haven't introduced this training, it was scheduled for 2024, but we're systematically throwing more decisions on it. Since 1996, when I, as a soldier of the State Security Service, was in the Danish army on training - the military police - and saw their mandatory service in life, lived with them, I have always supported the mandatory military service and will continue to support it. But each thing has its own time. The mandatory military service shall produce results at least after 10 years. It has nothing to do with this war. First, we must win this war with the Ukrainians, and then in the future we can plant new trees, not weaken the professional army during the war by sending them to the barracks to unconvinced young people. And now this bill. On this draft law, I can actually repeat only what Raimonds Bergmanis said, to be more correct, what was said by the head of the Saeima's Legal Office. It's a brother - just as big a brother as Development/About! the pre-election programme as a whole. He's a brother! Under normal circumstances, I would not vote in favour of this draft law, but today I will not be happy with you, I will not play with you this gambling: let us, as we say, be close together, adopt this draft law at first reading. But what do I promise? As early as November, when the gambling lobbyist in this hall will probably not be, or if he will have a marginal effect, we will open this law and let us take out all pre-election programs and all the fools that are currently written there. Thank you. Honor to serve Latvia!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U40	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U41	Dear Members of the Saeima! During the interwar period, Latvian armed forces had an army of about 20,000 people and approximately 40,000 were involved in the movement of guards. We currently have four smaller armed forces than in the interwar period. The situation of geopolitical risks has not changed, nor has the potential of the Russian armed forces changed significantly, in contrast to what was in the interwar period, but we are feeding four times smaller armed forces. In this situation, when Russia not only carries out an aggressive war in Europe, but on our borders... In fact, around a million, perhaps even more, troops have been involved in the entire Western war area, which is a direct risk to the independence of the Baltic States. In these circumstances, it is necessary or not necessary for us to increase the capacity of our armed forces - I think the least, it is irresponsible of the politicians from whom it comes. If we are talking about compulsory military service or the state defence service now being offered, we need to understand that it was a mistake - not that the mandatory military service had to be reformed at the time, but it was a mistake to abolish it and not to renew it for so long. Why? Because, over these years, we would have gained around 150 000 citizens who would have gone through military training and at least had some insight into how to act in the event of a threat. While this service was cancelled in Latvia, Finland did not take such a path, it continued to prepare its own national citizens, just as Estonia continued to do. Once again, we tried to be smarter than other countries, despite the fact that Finland, in my opinion, is an excellent example of how Russia's aggression should be stopped. It is very right that we are now moving towards the establishment of a national defence service. I also take a very positive view of the alternatives offered by the national defence service, where I think every young person will be able to find the most suitable solution for himself. Nor will it cause problems for those who will, for example, continue their studies; they will be able to volunteer themselves for the work of the Earth’s Watch Tower service or the alternative service that is compatible with the study. Others who decide to go to this 11-month service will receive other bonuses, such as paid higher education, which, in my opinion, is also a very important benefit for any young person who starts studies at a university, he will not only be able to start studies in paid study programmes, but also with sufficient savings, which will certainly make these studies much, much easier. But I would also like to talk about what the young person in general will benefit from the public defence service. It will be very, very many positive skills that will be useful for all life. There is no longer any time in the National Armed Forces, such as the time when instructors violated any moral and ethical standards. All instructors are professional, responsible, respectful of each other and of the lower-ranking soldiers. I have no doubt that this will be a huge benefit for young people, because it will not only be possible to acquire military skills but also to acquire skills for a life that parents sometimes steal from their children, too much love, too much care for their children, and they have not had the opportunity to gain independence. Young people will be able to acquire such skills, which will then help both in their studies and in their future working lives. I will support these draft laws and hope that we will be able to support them in their final readings quickly enough, and I hope that this service will really start work - and that it will start work very qualitatively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U42	Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U43	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members, honourable Members, The keywords that we hear today from opponents from this troupe of this bill are “sudden”, “dangering existing forms of defence development... whether it is a professional service or an Earthguard’. These are absolutely the same keywords that existed in 2017, when the National Association submitted a similar initiative to the Saeima, also “is not an appropriate time”, “is not an appropriate time”. Now let's imagine... If we had approved in 2017 and, looking at this plan that this draft law provides for, we would already have a stable national defence service, where from five to six thousand young people a year would have acquired basic skills, military skills, this would undoubtedly strengthen our national defence capabilities in terms of both civil protection and military protection. Here, too, we should talk about the state of mind that would be formed in society and formed by the adoption of this law and by the introduction of a national defence service, when the state of mind would not be what might prevail in society: yes, we need to strengthen protection, but let them do it - we do not, they do it. And here, I think this applies to our allies, NATO. I am convinced that there is also such a mood in society - why should we do so if there are NATO forces here. But NATO forces are our armed forces, including NATO, it is not some mystical, separate entity. And in this respect, the state defence service would strengthen our mental state. I'm not saying this will happen right away. Clearly, we see that the implementation period is also quite wide, increasing in volume terms and changing for generations as well. I don't think, of course, for 25 years, but even in 10 years, there will be no such question... When someone else, because I know what to do, I know what to do to my neighbor, and I can make a full contribution... the protection of the State. And it's vitally important, especially for the state of the new generation's mind, because we're all... Tomorrow, no, there are elections tomorrow, and many of us highlight one important nuance: there will be a lot of voters who were born after 2004, so they were born in Latvia, when we are already NATO, when we are in the European Union, and understanding of threats is perhaps “liquid”. So I think this is necessary to strengthen the idea that “if anything happens, I know what to do to me, I know what to do to my friend, what to do to my colleague”. Other things about these key words “is not the right time”, “hurried”, “the need to strengthen existing formats”. Colleagues are likely to approve in this term the draft law “Amendments to the Land Guard Law” at the third reading, where we have already conceptually voted in the first reading that Landguard can be involved by the age of 65. And what do you think, colleagues, is the average age of this Saeima over 65? None. Yeah, I'm gonna be blamed for using that condition... But I am proud to say that for six years I served in the Earthguard, also in the office of member of the Saeima. I have a question for those who oppose... I'm looking, it's mostly in this flank... How many of you, after this parliamentary term, are planning to join Earth’s watch and, if not, why? What is that reservation - it's not the time, it's not the time? You have to ask yourself these questions. If someone says that it is necessary to get involved, it is an incentive, and it is based on knowing the added value of acquiring these military skills. This is not the primitive way to take a gun and shoot out the goal, it's much wider - it's a work in the team. I will say that military service is the best instrument for consolidating society - absolutely. People with different backgrounds of life, experiences learn, are trained shoulder to shoulder. In my view, the national defence service will be a perfect instrument for promoting public cohesion. And about the law and the bill itself. The question is also that hasty. Yesterday, while reading the news, understanding the discussions in the Commission, I understand the emotional, human reaction of the Legal Bureau, I understand the pressure on such a thorough, conceptual draft law. All due respect for your work, but the work needs to be completed. You don't have to drop your hands because it's hard. And I think it could also be a motif for the national defence service, for young people - yes, it may be difficult, but you do not need to give up. As far as the nuances are concerned... It cannot be a panacea that this Saeima would not pass this law. Name just one regulatory one at national level... the law, which after adoption in the Saeima is not worth to open, is not bent, glued, refined, - even one! If anyone can call such a law, I take my words back and say, Yes, you know, it is impossible.... Yes, Mr. Feldman has taken up the challenge, but I also like the challenges... Colleagues, this is the time for us not to say once again that we were able to do it, but we did not. Let's go, let's go, let's go! The remarks about the fact that the professional service will rush in the first year to train disabled young people - I guess the whole draft law has not been fully read. The first year is voluntary, so the young man himself says: “I want and want,” it is not a young man who is forced to participate for various reasons. Of course, I am sure that in the first year, we will receive many lessons. I'm sure there will be mistakes, but we're not in a position to improve. If we were not able, we would live on the same level as in the 1990s. The country is developing, we must develop, and national defence must also develop, so that we are equal to other countries in our region... with regard to persons who are able to protect the State, to engage in national protection. I call for support for this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U44	Name to Member Ainars Barkis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U45	Dear President, Colleagues! It was September 1991... October As far as I remember, we were 15 to 20 enthusiasts together, and we started working on the creation of the Earthguard. The Saeima had just adopted, I don't even remember the decision or the law, it wasn't legally of real quality, but the Earthguard had to be created, and then we recognized enthusiasts all over Latvia who did their work. The beginning was fun. Two and a half years later, the law was not yet in order, and the laws were not in order. We were very well aware that we were led by political will and necessity, and the task of lawyers was this political will and the need to formulate, arrange and place them within the framework of the laws and regulations. Well, for years, I remember at the Earthguard headquarters... we went on the same way to the Ministry (in the beginning they were our colleagues and then to the Saeima) to give their contribution, their contribution to the drafting of regulations in various norms, not only those related to the Land Guard Act, but the whole package. It was an interesting time, and the political will was the main one at that time. We had a lot of disputes, and the lawyers were there... Over time, legal authorities had to be more and more involved. Then, I remember, two and a half years later, too... I bought a lot of spaghetti, and I exchanged its spaghetti against the carabines. Together with my colleagues, I bought a lot - a lot - of machines, patrons and machine guns... All kinds of things like that. It was a time when there was an arms sales embargo against Latvia. What we did was impossible. Currently, Colonel Hartmanis writes about it in his future book of memory, perhaps someone will be interested in reading it. Later in my life, I had to learn a lot, and when I worked in a consultancy firm and in practical work, I discovered the law of the Paretto for all my life. ( Internouncing call.) The paret law teaches businessmen to do the right things rather than do the right things. Let's do the right thing, let's go ahead! Thank you. ( Some Members are applauding.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U46	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U47	Ladies and gentlemen! After two days, the outgoing Saeima is about to adopt a new concept of protection. This issue may not only be related to defence matters – today it is decided on the future of all Latvian children. And that creates some reflections. First. Did we ask our children and their parents how they viewed the new offer at all? Second observation: We are talking about the fact that the situation is changing very quickly, it is true, but in the area of defence the situation started to change dramatically and dramatically in 2014. A new, rapid turnaround took place in February this year. Since then, half a year has passed. I listened with great attention to the speech of our decisive Prime Minister and did not understand where the Ministry was faster? If something really needed to be changed, then it should have been done before the beginning of the war, not during the war. I absolutely agree with what Mr Schmidt said, because changing all the basic lines during the war is a crime. Can you imagine that today, the United States Congress would suddenly decide on a mandatory service in the United States? I can't imagine that even the sharpest parliamentarians in the United States would be ready to take such a step in such a situation. That's a point two. Three points. This draft law is extremely important, as are the 10 accompanying draft laws. Was it possible to get acquainted with them from A to Z, highlighting not only the emotional aspects, but also the letter and spirit of the law (and especially the letter, because it is a legal document)? I don't think so. And what Mr Bergmanis said here is absolutely true, because it does not honor any parliament and under any circumstances. It is very important to remember this, very important. Here we have proposed that we change that law on several occasions. Yes, indeed, we will change it, but the composition of the substances to be changed is very broad and unclear, and therefore the work will be difficult and contentious. That is why it is also hasty, unduly hasty. Once again, this Saeima is closing its activities, and so if it is not a pre-election step, then it must be justified. And the last one. You know, a few years ago, an interesting film appeared in Riga’s Kinostudia - I would highly recommend to look at Jimle’s ore in the rally. There was such an interesting idea that Latvian pensioners, dissatisfied with their pensions - which is true, they are not satisfied as well today - have mass applied to serve in the army. This helped to solve a number of problems, including financial problems, which, by the way, is also very important in this case, because war must be led and won with the greatest effectiveness in this respect as well. There is no question here about how much money we can throw away and how much we want to throw away, how much we have and how much we will have. Perhaps this possibility is also to be taken into account, and perhaps pensioners will be the first to apply for compulsory service - with experience, with knowledge - as well as with the pension fund. And finally. It seems to me that the atmosphere that prevails in the world today is deconstructive, because it is composed of aggression on the one hand and fear on the other. Fear is a bad helper in making any decision. And this kind of negative emotions also doesn't help to improve things. And the last “last”. Even the Centenary War has ever ended, this war will come to an end, so we need to think about how we will live after the war. Yes, really - this whole package of para bellum - you want peace, prepare for war, but yet it is reasonable, reasonable, with a cool mind - with a cool mind! And if you come to this bill and to the rest with a cool mind, it's a brother - it's a brother that wouldn't be right to support. It would be right for this work to start 14. Family, because I'm sure that's going to be more than 13. Thank you. ( Some Members are applauding.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U48	The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U49	Colleagues, I support the progress of this draft law so that I can also submit my proposals and perhaps give my vision of how the Latvian army should develop further, but I believe that we should promote and strengthen the professional army, the Earthguard, because there are also many problems in this area. This is also reflected in the reports of the State Audit Office. We definitely need to understand that technology is now taking on a number one... military activity and not the number of soldiers will be the most decisive in the course of the war, because currently Latvia has a very important medium and long-range air defence system. We also need to think about what additional lessons we can give to all those who want to learn military matters. But I believe that perhaps we should talk more about university level - that young people have additional military training at a time when they have been studying for four years. These are the directions to which I can go, but I would like to place even more emphasis today on the area of home affairs. The President of Latvia also said that during these 15 years the area of home affairs was lowered and people were not motivated. So if we imagine... If, at the moment, someone tries to get across our borders in order to start hostilities - how motivated are our border guards, how many crews and how secured are they? The field of home affairs has been left in the role of a young child for all these years, and the remuneration system, equipment and, we can see, the infrastructure that is now in the home system is at the most critical level. And I have to understand that they are the ones who will be in this front line and defend Latvia. They will not be the ones who will stand by and watch young soldiers fight and the professional army also participate. They also have a duty to defend Latvia, but at the moment the area of home affairs is very low. And the question is: would these hundreds of millions that would be invested in this mandatory military service (even if part of it) not be useful in the area of home affairs? We have seen that the former Interior Minister tried and tried, and now there are even new depots being built, and additional million have been directed to improve infrastructure. Unfortunately, new political forces came and this money disappeared. ( Internouncing call.) And it is true, no one will dispute it, because it is. Once again: the area of home affairs is in a critical situation. Priorities need to be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U50	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U51	President of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Dear Minister for Defence. Protection is an important thing, especially in the current worrying situation, where the armed conflict in the Baltic region cannot be excluded, but who said that war at our borders could develop in just five years' time, when we are promised 50,000 armed patriots? Will someone call us to the Ministry of Defence and ask: “Are you ready? Then we go to you.” Not at all! In my opinion, the conflict in which the Latvian armed forces could participate is already going, it is going to Ukraine, and only political considerations are now restricting the involvement of NATO countries in this conflict. Maybe if the conflict in Ukraine... If the war in Ukraine lasts, then can NATO also take part in this war? It is also not excluded that the Latvian armed forces could participate in some kind of disarmament of Russia if there is chaos in the neighbourhood, powerlessness and NATO command, for example, order the end of war... The presence of Russian troops in Kaliningrad and the demilitarisation of Kaliningrad. This means that the coalition war is the most dangerous way in which Latvia can be included in the big game of other countries. I would therefore like to ask the Defence Minister present: why was it not possible for professional service soldiers to offer adequate pay now so that they would be prepared for this worst scenario? According to my estimates, the amount that the Ministry of Defence intends to spend on the project of compulsory military service is equivalent to the additional remuneration of three thousand professional service soldiers - two thousand euros per month. Mr Pabrika, instead of getting the army ads on the walls and buses of the house with helicopters, which we do not yet have, ask the men, even in the gym - are you ready to serve for two thousand euros per month? I am convinced that there are many former railwaymen, port workers, airport workers and other workers who, under the rule of your coalition, remained out of income and would be happy to go to the Earth's watch. I also have a question to the State Secretary of the Ministry of Defence, Mrs Baiba Bļodniece, who said in the daily newspaper “Diena”, that people who will serve in the national defence service will have only EUR 300 in place of EUR 1000, because they are not ready for service and are not equivalent to professional service soldiers. Sorry, in the worst case, the same nineteen and twenty-year-old boys will stand and fall for Latvia. And that means that people who risk their lives will be humiliated, they will have a three times lower salary, maybe they will have another form, other signs. It's absurd what you're offering. I think it should be at least equal to remuneration for people in the national defence service, for those in the professional service if they belong to a separate category as soldiers. I also do not believe that crystal-deep people are working under the direction of the Ministry of Defence. This is demonstrated in particular by the news of alarms in the media. I would like to add my vision of military assistance to Ukraine to the reports on dubious contracts. It was announced that we spent EUR 300 million on aid to the Ukrainians, but if we compare it with the quantity and quality of the weapons offered, it does not go in any way. From open sources it is known, for example, that Latvia gave to Ukraine 75 missile systems in Stinger. One system Stinger costs around 100,000 euros. The haubices were also delivered, the Lithuanian helicopters - two units - were delivered, the dry doses, and so on. But where's 300 million? Tell me. I don't want to say that someone in the Defence... The department got on hand, but the political genealogy of Mr Pabrik is suspicious. You were raised by a People's Party founded by an oligarch Andris Šķele. Let us not support this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U52	The name to Member Karin Scratch.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U53	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I didn't want to speak. It seems to me that this is a very emotional issue not only for the people of Latvia, but also for women who give birth to children who all this time endured the stress that you... You did 13. In the family. It seems to me that all these three years you have been doing nothing more than harm to the people. For two years you landed people at home, isolated them. Young people could not grow, we now have mental and psychological problems for children, young people. We see all this, we see only part of it publicly. You know, I have a story, too. I've never been against military mandatory service, I'm even fanatical despite being young... As if I don't have eighteen-year-old great ones that should be saved or reregistered, maybe looking for another nationality... But the people talked about it when you raised this question. They know you can't be trusted, they know you'll leave them alone with their problems. My father was in the army, and I always looked with big eyes, like a man should be like that, too, that's an example! And I try plus minus an intuitive search for a like man who will protect my family and on whom I can rely. I've been sitting here for four years. Do you think I saw a lot of men here? How do you treat women? I apologize when I was pregnant, just a few! The men were treated with respect. I don’t name words, I know who supported them, but there were men of YOUNG Unity who could come and ask, “How do you feel?” We don't respect, we don't love women, people. And now, two days before the elections, we are moving on this issue. I'm sorry, you show in six months -- yes, I understand what the target was -- all the media, how bad the war is, you cut your throats, you show the tombs. Fear, people fear, they live under stress, and now suddenly you say, “You need to defend the state!” Will we really be able to prepare people for the moment... You need to run and defend? No, they're not ready, they're not psychologically ready. They're scared because they've been sitting at home for two years, and now what's going on? Your children should be given? Where were you in 2014? You all knew... and had a signal, had its vibrations. You were only walking with a statement to condemn. You knew that Ukraine was empty with a military... everything was empty, warehouse... And just wake up now. Zelenski was flying and shouting: we need to help - there will be war. It will. And only on February 24, in the morning, everyone woke up in shock, and now hysterically. You came with your brother two days before the elections. ( Internouncing call.) 350 thousand of us live abroad. They think they're happy? Now all the compartments are closed, they cannot even vote, make their own choice of how they would like to live and what Members would represent them in the future. They have to cross 300 kilometres. About what? What have they been punished for? Juris Puce said to us only one voter in Japan. He's not worth... Is that so? I think we love every citizen of Latvia, but we will fight for every army, we will fly. But when he has to have the opportunity to vote, we can't. What are we going to do with the Diaspora? There are some exceptions, I heard that Latvia... the news service said there would be some exceptions for these people. And what? What are the exceptions? As a matter of urgency, you have already come up with exceptions... to benefit them (interim call.) are you or these people? I don't think so. I call for this matter not to rush. I'm calling for a delay... quality all to prepare and look in the other's eyes when you drive such draft laws. I call on you not to support the bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U54	The name of the Member, John Isal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U55	Hello, colleagues! Some arguments raised by the opponents of the national defence service. I will not talk about people who do not want to be good for Latvia - there was enough of any pseudo-argument there - but I also heard some arguments from people who, I believe, are good for Latvia, and they are asking for an answer, in my opinion. First of all, is it the right time? No, it's not the right time. The real time to introduce a mandatory service was many years ago. So, at the latest... When called upon by the National Association, both in 2014 and 2017, with concrete proposals. Then, true, the military leadership of the army was against, and the political leadership of the Ministry of Defence was against. However, we see that in the 21st century war in Europe does not mean what we thought a year ago - that we can send a unit of a few hundred men to Afghanistan, to Iraq, and that in this way our participation in our security will be over. No, this year it proved that the war in Europe, a war that could potentially affect Latvia, is going quite differently. It happens with dozens of hundreds of thousands of big armies fighting heavy weapons against each other, and there's no small, compact professional army anymore, it can't fight this kind of war. That is why I also understand and know that there are the highest officers who are against compulsory military service, it is true, but the time when they could sit comfortable in the headquarters by sending a few hundred men to Afghanistan or Iraq has passed. Yes, it is possible that such wars will continue, but our main concerns about the security of Latvia are that we can, so to say, defend Latvia's land in the entire border, in the entire territory of Latvia at the time of X-hour. We therefore need a large armed force and a large reserve. A further argument, more precisely, is the debate on whether women should also be served. All due respect for women in the army, on Earthsard, but I do not believe that we need to impose an obligation on women to learn to kill. This is not the task of a woman in this world, in my opinion. So, on a voluntary basis, please go ahead! All due respect for women - once again - every day, but it is not a woman's task - must do so. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. K. Baumane: “Can you tell me what a woman’s job is?” ) And finally ( Dep. K. Baumann’s synopsis.) ... Finally... I know that the Minister of Defence will not be able to approve or deny it, but I have a strong suspicion that, at the recent Madrid Summit, our allies quite clearly said that if we want them to protect us, we have to think more about ourselves. If all the countries around us in our region have a mandatory service, we will not avoid it, we must implement it. Better now than never. Of course, it would have been better if we had done it earlier, but the last time we did it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U56	The name to Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U57	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Minister! In fact, there are two big questions to be asked. So, firstly, what we want to achieve with this draft law; secondly, because it is about men - at least for the time being - who would be called into service, what could be the people who are going to this service. I've just listened to the radio. Doctors have talked about the problem that very many young people after high school have many different physical problems, such as obesity, spinal deformity and other things that are more related to lack of physical activity in educational institutions. Unfortunately, this is a fact. If the Ministry of Defence continues to apply such a service and we have decided on it then, of course, the health problems that have been allowed could be one important issue that should be addressed, because people are not really prepared for such a service. But that's okay, because in time this matter can be corrected. In very many countries, such a service has already been introduced, where people learn first and foremost to use a weapon (a very valuable option), many also acquire additional patriotism, which some may have forgotten about, and there are, of course, other skills that come here, including discipline. Unfortunately, many entrepreneurs - especially those working in the regions - have said that young people who go to apply for work are often without discipline. There are two or three weeks of harder work left to do, as they are starting to disappear from work. Consequently, I think that this service could also deal with such a little social issue, and it would not be too bad for anyone to learn these skills in addition. Let us look at the attitude of the people currently called by the Russian Federation. At the moment when they are not affected, there is a big chauvinism, the Twitter is written: let's tell them about victory, and let's do nothing; but at the moment when they are called, these Twitters suddenly run away from their country and buy out absolutely all possible flights to get out of the service... Let us say, the skills they need in war, which they will then have to use no longer in the Twitter but in the reality. The videos that are shown from warfields have obviously inspired these people to change their views very quickly and as prusacians run away from their country. Let us therefore be realistic! I think that such a service is, of course, necessary to deal with a number of things, not just the protection of our country. I think that if I were to call three thousand people to this service, this would in no way solve the problems that have been in our army for a long time, which we have already heard about. If we are talking about our enemy, we obviously need to look more at the eastern side and the numerical excess is undoubtedly a big one. But not about it... because we are not talking here about ensuring national protection in the context of this draft law. Our security is, in fact, guaranteed by NATO membership, by the commitment to increase funding, which we hope will be used in accordance with best practice and so that our forces are increasingly and more technologically secured and these funds are used as efficiently as possible. So, colleagues, we need to look at the whole package and its scope, and if this is the first reading, there will already be opportunities for proposals. I think that a number of issues will have to be addressed. Even one of those who has just said about whether women should also be called to the service. I think colleagues, we will continue this discussion. As I have seen, it was a cuneiform moment when the question arose, but that is the question. And this whole whole is, of course, due to the fact that many are familiar people who can reach the circle of these people. I invite you, however, to look at the draft law not in such a narrow, tiny form, but to think about the opportunities that the service could give. In addition, there was a version that would allow people in the service to obtain, for example, a driver’s license, which would be a motivational moment. It wouldn't be, let's say, just a flat form, but also some carrot elements. In this case, we could also talk about the possibility of paying, but obviously the Ministry of Defence will still work on this, and our colleagues will also inform us - both in the Commission and hopefully the Minister or the Parliamentary Secretary could inform us here during the sitting. We could be more informed, and also in this debate, then one or other proposal to support or not support, as appropriate. In my opinion, this issue is indeed overdue. A great deal has been said about the fact that such a service is in Finland. Finland, by the way, has enough good practice, and very recently there was such a good programme about this practice. Many were interviewed, including those in the service. One was identified as a priority in terms of the fact that non-regulatory relations are not permitted in the service. Finland has a very high level of concern about this, there is no tolerance for such activities, and all the so-called ones are informed about it. In fact, such experiences do not exist, and this makes calling ones feel a little more secure and avoid service. So very good examples exist, and I call, colleagues, to move forward with this draft law, and in the future... not in the future, but in the very near future, if there is an adequate deadline for the submission of proposals, rather than some 15 minutes, as in other draft laws, we could talk accordingly about a sensible proposal, both for discussion and for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U58	The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U59	President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, honourable colleagues! Before 2004, or Latvia's accession to NATO, many said... Many influential people said: “Do not hurry, hurry, do not bother our neighbour, let us join NATO later, let's get all the things right, everything will be fine.” I have a bit of a reminder from the debate in the national defence service. That is first. Secondly, there are people who say today: "As we have joined NATO! NATO will come and defend us. Why a national defence service?’ NATO is not a club where you buy a ticket, leave, sit down and then provide you with services. NATO each of itself has to put something in the table for the common good, and we obviously have to put something in the table at this point. This is what we put on the table. Finally, my 18 - year - olds have said: “Well, why are we? Why, why do we have to go to compulsory service?” The answer is very simple - because freedom has a price. Today, it was asked (Dep. Mr Stepanenko's intermediate call.) - What is it at a price? And then I have an answer, Julia. Mr Stepanenko's intermediate call.) : “Indemnity has a higher price than freedom.” The captive price... the price of the captivity, if you want to know, cost Latvia tens of thousands of exiled, the freedom to decide on your future. It costs Ukraine something else. ( Internouncing call.) Yes, therefore, my fellow Members, I call for the support of the national defence service. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U60	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U61	Colleagues, I listened to speeches from Members of our Saeima, most of whom - I am not saying to everyone, but to most, especially perhaps those who have just spoken - children are studying abroad and will never return to Latvia to serve in the mandatory service, and there is a ticket on the plane themselves to fly on the very first flight if something happens here. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. (M. Bondar’s intermediate call.) You already have a ticket in your hands, yeah! But you know, colleagues, if we're talking now about what you've just prepared, what our Law Office has also called a poor-quality product... You think that you will now provide a very good army with the newly-called children between 18 and 27 years of age. They are children from the age of 18 - they are really children. If you don't have children, you don't understand what that means. Next, you think you will succeed with this little funding? It's really not big money compared to what you're supposed to do. Make sure that our army is very strong so that we can really stand by if someone attacks us. Do you know what our armed forces are at the moment, what are the problems that are still unresolved (and I do not know if they will be solved at all)? If a NBS soldier wants to ensure that he has an elevated rank, then he has to look for a trainer himself. You have to look for your coach yourself, you have to pay for it. I don't know if he gets compensation afterwards. Annual tests - everything has to be done. If we are talking about prevention of injuries, then we must stress: they are not at all. How are you going to send our children into the army without even preventing injuries? How you're gonna treat them all at all now... all its injuries? What will you do if you cannot even provide this to the National Armed Forces - a professional service at the moment? And nothing has been done, nothing is currently done to keep the soldier in a long line. If you need it, you do it, if not, then you don't need it at all. And every year, to the Survival School... Every year a trainer is searched. And physiotherapy is a outsourcing. And these are our National Armed Forces. You believe that, by invoking more children, you will be able to ensure the sustainability and quality of our National Armed Forces? No, it's absolutely understandable what you want to do. You - with your tickets in your pockets - will send our children to the first line, because that's what you need. You don't... you are not interested in sustainability, you are not interested in the quality of soldiers. It's a cannon you want to take from us -- you, all those with tickets in your pockets. If you think Lachplēsis Day is a very beautiful event in which you can go and talk, say your speeches and put candles in front of the camera, and it turns out in every way that you remember this day, then you know, dear people, that day is beautiful now, after a hundred years, but when it happened, it wasn't at all beautiful. When the children died, it was not at all beautiful! And what you want to do now, so that our children may be sacrificed while you fly away. Of course, I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U62	The name to Member Karina Scratch for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U63	Colleagues, I told you everything. I would just like to say one sentence about our brave Saeima, about our brave men. When we had a pandemic, we all sat on screens at home. Now that Ukraine is in war, they all make decisions and work, creates. I wonder where we... Don't give God if there's something going on and there's an emergency where we're going to sit? Which meadow - poppy, canola or Riga Castle? I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U64	Name to Member Ainārs Vilciņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U65	Hello! Good afternoon, everybody! I'm not going to talk for 15 minutes, and I'm not going to tell you anything about what we should do before we make such laws. Now it looks like, you know, we're starting a ship with holes in the water. Let's go! Perhaps a bear of happiness will immediately drown all of it, and on the other hand it will swim there. Most of you have not been in the normal army, I say immediately. What happened in this term... And if you say it's normal, and you're ready to make such a law, and immediately the young people will go... As said earlier, the young people can only be like a cannon to us. But what do I mean? Health status of every young man... you are not interested in this. You know why? Because... I've been doing sports for 49 years. Do you know what's going on at school? Most young people can't set any standards, and you're ready to hit them... Where - where? For two consecutive years, the community’s abyss prevented us from doing sports. You know why? Just because there was a green regime and you voted to prevent them from doing sports. Putin ended on February 24, one day, (Interior call.) the whole phase. One day! And now it's happening, what? So we're once again talking about what (interruption.) ... You don't want to listen. If you think that at the moment, accepting such a negativity, it's green... I say again, a green law... The main thing for you is to make a law. Laws that are completely unfinished must not be adopted! Just... We have new, new ideas about everything again... What happened in winter... on pools and everything else... The power will be switched off immediately, because you can't pay for it. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “On the bill!” (See the box below.) Oh, of course, the bill... You sit and wait. It seems to me that this is simply a way of accessing resources. Next. Mr Pabrika, I think you understand very well how it is to maintain a professional army. ( Minister of Defence Pabriks: “I understand... “ I understand, believe me. ( Internouncing call.) Believe me I understand. And if we do now, with this budget, which... You say you're ready to maintain a mandatory army, but I'm here for you... as I stand here: you are not ready to maintain the mandatory army. Trust me. If you don't believe that the next term will wipe it out. Thank you. ( Some Members are applauding.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U66	Dear colleagues, it would be theoretical time for a break, but - attention! Members Raivis Dzintars, Krišjānis Feldmans, Juris Pūce, Arvils Ašeradens and Uldis Augulis are asking to continue the sitting of the Saeima without interruption until item 12 of the draft law “Amendments to the law on support for the economic consequences of the sanctions and countermeasures imposed against Ukraine”. Do Members have objections? ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Members wish to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the sitting of the Saeima without interruption until the first reading of the bill “Amendments to the law on support for the economic consequences of sanctions and countermeasures against Ukraine” and then announce an hour-long break! Please vote mode! ( Interface: “No eating! ” ) Please see the result. On - 63, against - 21, refrain from - 1st break - until consideration of the draft law in question - and then leave for an hour. We are continuing the debate. The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U67	I hope that each of you, who are currently on the lists of candidates and who are candidates for entry to the 14th century. In the family, you really meet people and talk about the most topical thing. I hope that the draft laws and their supporters also speak of this draft law with the voters, including women. I don’t know what you hear, but I hear from my constituents, from my constituents, “They won’t get our children!” They are already thinking about saving their children. This is about the fact that maybe some who do not have children do not understand what is currently Latvian youth when he is 18 or 19. You may realize that when your children are 18 or 19 years of age, most of them are still in school. (Interface: “May be postponed. ”) ) At school! That is first. You can read the bill, please! It's written that next year it's going to be... Voluntaryly... provides for voluntary... Eighteen and nineteen years (interim: ‘... may be deferred.’ )... If you now explain to me that it can be postponed, voluntarily and so on, then, sorry, what is the point today, now, one month before... not here, but in other premises, because this building will be renovated... It doesn't seem symbolic to you that this is 13. - The Saeima finished this building, too? We finished a lot in that country. You're still... people will remember all this. ( Milestones.) That's the first. Second. When the commission debated this draft law, you heard what the Association of Latvian Family Doctors and the Latvian Dental Association told you, which counted how many thousands of young people will not only have to check the condition of their teeth at the same time, but also to fix them, because you will not be able to call young people who may have something to do with teeth at any time, because there will not be any force for young people with such uncorrected teeth. I hope you know how “excellent” state we have child dentistry, the availability of dentists in our country - children, adults and the same young people. I hope you understand how difficult... and how many police we lack, how many border guards, how many firemen. Not only because of low wages, but also because those young people who want to join the police cannot pass on sports regulations. After all, you heard the commission said by the representatives of these services that it would be difficult even to find young people who would like to learn to become professionals - police, border guards, firemen. No, you are now planning to do this, not on a voluntary basis, but through an institution called "civil service". So far it has been said that it is this civil service that will be for those who... Well, if a young man doesn't want to serve in the army, he can, for example, protect the prison. Prison! I will reveal one secret - even a guard who protects a civilian object must complete at least security courses where the methods of the fight and everything, as well as the knowledge of the law, must be learned. The most important thing, however, is that today's war (I hope that for some it will not be worth the secret of discovery) is not the war of the army's numerical composition, but the war of the highest technologies. Even in the Soviet army, forgive me, how many of you served? Two years? Specialization. A now you want in 11 months -- what? Teach young people to hold in hand--what? Shooter, bee, what's the machine, huh? What skills are you going to give this new 18-year-old or nineteen-year-old boy? ( I don’t even talk about girls.) What exactly? Train anti-missile systems to deal with? With a tank, with a gun? I am a woman forbidding me that I may not be accurate, but in so far as I understand that training even the auxiliary composition of modern troops is simply impossible. ( Internouncing call.) My only point is that it is madness, it is wasting public money. It is a clear election campaign that is currently taking place here in this hall and, I am sorry, I am ashamed to take part in such a campaign, and I will repeat what my constituents and especially the voters say: “Our children will not get you!”
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U68	The name is Sandy Riekstin.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U69	Hello, colleagues! It is interesting, of course, to listen to some colleagues here, but I would like to clarify a little bit. We're dropping here the crocodile tears: these kids, young people... One for children, the other for young people. ( Internouncing call.) Again, kids, again, young people... I remember that we had a discussion just recently about the need to reduce this age threshold in municipal elections, because then there was an argument that they understand everything well, they are ready to make their own decision. And that's exactly the same as those who speak the opposite today. And then it happens that a eighteen-year-old volunteer, once again emphasising the word ‘voluntary’, cannot choose to go to the service, but for example, a sixteen-year-old is very mature to understand what to vote on in municipal elections. Now you have something to figure out for yourself, which version is the right one for you. But, I remember, sometime... When I was about 14, I went to help a forest worker to work in the woods because I had to secure myself. And I had a winter jacket, a boy, as it was called among the people, and many already remember. And then somehow I'm there at the fire... There was something we did, and there was a single sleeve. Yeah, we extinguished it, but... Remember what those guys were... Smells and stinks. Well, that's a fucking wolves that's raging and stinking. And it's just today that I suddenly remember this feeling, this smell that... I've been here for an hour now through my nose... Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U70	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U71	Well, I'm not surprised by the representatives of this political block, nor by the intellectual... nor emotional intelligence. What would I like to say in general? Legislation must be balanced, thought-out and high-quality. This draft law is not of quality - experts also admitted it. Next moment. When making such decisions, conclusions should also be drawn from the mistakes and shortcomings permitted by the Ministry of Defence, spending a great deal of money, including in corruption scandals. That is why I will not support this draft law and will call on my thinking colleagues not to support this draft law and the accompanying package... also - poor quality, lax work. The State shall not use any other resources at its disposal. In particular, the State does not make sufficient use of civil protection (critical infrastructure is not prepared for a critical situation); neither the Land Guard nor the New Guard are sufficiently used by the State, although effective investment in Earth Guard and New Guard could lead to an improvement of the security system. One more moment. The State shall not use the capital raised in the civil service, the capital of advisers, which shall not be used by the State. During the Saeima, several ministries and public services have multiplied; there are three advisors or four five consultants per performer. Please call, train and provide this official “army” in accordance with the requirements, and we will then be provided with security. 200 000 people working in public administration are an excellent weapon to protect the public. You have great opportunities to direct your advisers, consultants and PR agents in that direction. And it's very, very, very sorry that people with such intelligence are talking from the Saeima troop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U72	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U73	Everything has already been said in the debate. The majority of the Commission decided to support this draft law at first reading. I also ask the Saeima to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U74	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Law on the State Defence Service” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 66, no, 18, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U75	The Commission decided to set a deadline for the submission of proposals - two weeks, 13 October this year, second reading - at the sitting of the Saeima on 30 October... At the meeting on 20 October
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U76	The Saeima will meet on 20 October. Thank you. So the deadline for the proposals - 13 October this year, consideration at the Saeima sitting - 20 October this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U77	This is a draft package prepared for the implementation of the state defence service in order to clarify the social guarantees provided for the soldiers of the state defence service in the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions. The draft law was declared urgent by the Commission. I also ask the Saeima to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U78	Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U79	I call on the Saeima to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U80	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 66, no, 17, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U81	The deadline for submitting proposals - two weeks or 13 October of this year, consideration at the Saeima sitting - 20 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U82	Deadline for the proposals - 13 October this year, consideration by the Saeima - 20 October this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Official Electronic Address”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U83	The draft law “Amendments to the Law on Official Electronic Address” aims to speed up the implementation of an effective method of communication and to extend the scope of the entities mentioned in the Law on Official Electronic Address to which the use of e-address is mandatory. The Commission decided to recognise this draft law as an urgent measure.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U84	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Official Electronic Address” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 58, no, 18, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U85	Please support the draft law at first reading by the Saeima. The Commission also supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U86	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Official Electronic Addresses”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 61, for - 17, for - 1. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals and the time of the hearing.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U87	Deadline for tabling proposals - 13 October, second reading - 20 October sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U88	Thank you. Deadline for the proposals - 13 October this year, consideration by the Saeima - 20 October this year. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on the National Armed Forces”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U89	The draft law “Amendment to the Law on the National Armed Forces” was drafted at the initiative of the Ministry of Defence in connection with the implementation of the state defence service. The Law on National Armed Forces is supplemented by a norm that the personnel of the NBS during peace period is also constituted by soldiers of the State Defence Service. The Commission calls for this draft law to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U90	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the National Armed Forces” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 56, for - 17, for - 1. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U91	The Commission supported the draft law at first reading. I also call on the Saeima to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U92	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the National Armed Forces” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 62, against -15, refraining from -1. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U93	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 13 October this year, second reading - sitting of the Saeima on 20 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U94	Deadline for the proposals - 13 October this year, consideration by the Saeima - 20 October this year. Draft law “Amendment to the Act on Service Pensions for Military Persons”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U95	Draft law “Amendment to the Law on Service Pensions for Military Persons” has been drafted to provide for the right to the period and time of execution of the state defence service in the civil service replacing the state defence service, to be counted in the service record. The Commission requests that the draft law be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U96	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Service Pensions for Military Persons” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 59, for - 17, for - 1. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U97	I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading, which was also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U98	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on the first reading of the Law on Service Pensions of Military Persons! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 65, for - 17, for - 1. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U99	The deadline for the submission of proposals - two weeks, or 13 October of this year, for the second reading - at the sitting of the Saeima on 20 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U100	Deadline for the proposals - 13 October this year, consideration by the Saeima - 20 October this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Military Discipline”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U101	The aim of the draft law “Amendments to the Military Discipline Law” is to provide in the law a legal framework that also covers in the field of disciplinary punishment a category of soldiers of the State Defence Service who, in the performance of their duties, will perform an active service and will therefore be subject to the requirements of military discipline. The Commission requests that the draft law be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U102	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Military Discipline”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U103	The Commission supported the draft law at first reading and also asks the Saeima to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U104	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Military Disciplinary Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -64, against -18, refrains - not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U105	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 13 October this year, second final reading - 20 October of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U106	Thank you. Deadline for the proposals - 13 October this year, consideration by the Saeima - 20 October this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U107	The aim of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance” is to ensure that persons performing the public defence service or the civil service are subject to social insurance, including pension insurance and unemployment insurance, as any worker aged 15 years and older who is employed by an employer. The Commission decided to support the urgency of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U108	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 55, it's 18, it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U109	I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading, as also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U110	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 65, it's 18, it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U111	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 13 October this year, second final reading - 20 October of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U112	Deadline for the proposals - 13 October this year, consideration by the Saeima - 20 October this year. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on Administrative Penalty on Violations in the Field of Administration, Public Order and Use of State Language”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U113	The purpose of the draft law is to provide the military police with the right to conduct administrative infringement proceedings concerning violations of the Law on Administrative Violations, Public Order and the State Language referred to in the first paragraph of Article 3, affecting the basic functions of the institution concerned, i.e. when the military police perform the tasks assigned to it by the Law on the National Armed Forces. The Commission decided to recognise the draft law as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U114	Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Administrative Penalty on Violations in the Fields of Administration, Public Order and Use of State Language” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U115	The Commission decided to support this draft law at first reading. I also call on the Saeima to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U116	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Administrative Penalty on Violations in the Fields of Administration, Public Order and Use of State Language”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 64, for - 17, for - 1. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U117	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 13 October this year, second final reading - 20 October of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U118	Deadline for the proposals - 13 October this year, consideration by the Saeima - 20 October this year. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Pensions”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U119	The purpose of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On State Pensions” is to ensure the right of soldiers of the state defence service and persons performing the civil service to transfer to the insurance period necessary for granting the state pension. The Commission decided to recognise the draft law as a matter of urgency. Please also do this to the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U120	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Pensions” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U121	Please support the draft law at first reading, as supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U122	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On State Pensions” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not 65, it's 16, it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U123	The deadline for submitting proposals - two weeks, or 13 October of this year, for examining the second, final, reading - at the sitting of the Saeima on 20 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U124	Thank you. Deadline for the proposals - 13 October this year, consideration by the Saeima - 20 October this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Military Service Law”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U125	The draft law “Amendments to the Military Service Law” is prepared in response to changes in the security situation and taking into account the challenges of recruitment of National Armed Forces personnel. The duty to serve will be for all Latvian citizens men, as well as on a voluntary basis for those Latvian citizens who wish to do so. The citizen will be able to do the service from the age of 18. The Commission decided to support the urgency of the draft law. I also call on the Saeima to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U126	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on amendments to the Military Service Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 57, no, 18, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U127	The Commission supported the draft law at first reading. I also ask the Saeima to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U128	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on amendments to the Military Service Law at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U129	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 13 October this year, second final reading - 20 October of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U130	So the deadline for the proposals - 13 October this year, consideration at the Saeima sitting - 20 October this year. Draft law “Amendment to the Patients’ Rights Act”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U131	The draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Rights of Patients” has been drafted in relation to the implementation of the state defence service in order to provide for the right to receive information from the medical institutions of the National Armed Forces on the health status requested by the state defence service for its evaluation. The Commission decided to support the urgency of this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U132	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Patients’ Rights” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 57, no, 18, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U133	The Commission supported the draft law at first reading. I also ask the Saeima to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U134	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Patients’ Rights” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -64, against -18, refrains - not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U135	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 13 October this year, second final reading - 20 October of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U136	Thank you. Deadline for the proposals - 13 October this year, consideration by the Saeima - 20 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U137	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U138	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Commission, as well as to the Minister of Defence, for their presence and for the debate on these draft laws. First reading of the draft law “Amendments to the law on support for the management of sanctions and economic consequences caused by Russian military aggression against Ukraine”. On behalf of the Commission on Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Raivis Dzintars.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U139	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, First of all, thank you for agreeing to examine this draft law before the end. It involves the work of the Commission, and I will, however, delay your time in informing you of the content of the draft law, because it has a significant impact on the economy. Thus, the essence of the draft law is to ensure the availability of additional State aid for large-scale investment projects, which already expect a positive return to the Latvian economy in the coming years. This is particularly important in circumstances where the Latvian economy is affected by the consequences of Russian military aggression, including the rapidly growing inflation. The support programme developed by the Ministry of Economics for loans with a capital discount helps entrepreneurs to receive development aid: to build new production facilities, to develop new production directions, to invest in new technologies and to increase export volumes. Within the framework of the programme, the state provides loans to projects, the state sets criteria for entrepreneurs to be met - a certain amount of exports, number of employees and wage levels, investment in research and development. If economic operators fulfil these criteria, this may reduce the loan to 30 per cent and this part shall be covered by the State. The interest of entrepreneurs has been very high, with 45 operators submitting applications, whose total investment in projects is estimated at more than €143 million. With the current programme funding of EUR 99,5 million, a thousand new jobs will be created; additional exports of almost EUR 330 million per year will be provided; wage tax increases are expected to exceed EUR 10 million per year; and investment in R & D will reach EUR 20 million per year. So we are not spending, but investing in safe investments in production facilities, which we will not only pay off in the near future, but will bring additional revenue into taxes and GDP growth. All 45 projects with existing programme funds are not enough, and therefore, by supporting this draft law, we are providing an opportunity to support exportable Latvian companies, and this means that for the support programme we are devoting an additional EUR 52 million by redistributing them from other Altum programmes intended to overcome the current crisis. The Ministry of Economics expects that this additional support will not only create around 400 new jobs, providing 1,4 times the average wage in the region, but will also expect an additional increase of at least 70 million exports every year, and that investment in R & D will continue at least 20 million more every year. In order to achieve these results and to stop entrepreneurs from taking decisions on the transfer of activities to another country, it is necessary to ensure that projects which have not yet received support are not rejected and these projects are still subject to a decision on support this year. In the responsible Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, Members unanimously supported the proposed amendments to the law at first reading. Taking into account that the proposal provides a significant contribution to economic development and it is necessary to take decisions at both the Cabinet of Ministers and the support provider level already until 31 October of this year, the Commission is asking to allocate urgency to this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U140	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the law on support for the economic consequences of the sanctions and countermeasures imposed by the Russian military aggression against Ukraine”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U141	The request for support is therefore also at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U142	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on support for the economic consequences of the sanctions and countermeasures imposed by the Russian military aggression against Ukraine! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U143	The Commission is asking for a deadline of 15 minutes for the submission of proposals to be examined at today's Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U144	So there are no other proposals. Working on the proposals - 15 minutes by 13.15 a.m. - Saeima at today's sitting on 29 September. Ladies and gentlemen, amendments have been tabled to the agenda of the sitting. Members Krišjānis Feldmans, Raivis Dzintars, Juris Pūce, Ainars Latkovskis and Sandis Riekstins ask for draft laws “Amendments to the Education Law” and “Amendments to the General Education Law” to be put on the agenda before item 12 of the agenda. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( The box “Yes! ”) “Yes!” ) Please call us! We will vote for draft laws on ‘Amendments to the Education Act’ (No. 1519/Lp13) and Amendments to the Law on General Education (No. 1520/Lp13) would be discussed before item 12! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 57, no, 18, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Consequently, these draft laws are examined on the agenda before point 12 of the agenda. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has requested the draft law “On the LNG terminal” to be examined at first reading before item 12 of the agenda. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Members wish to vote. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “On the LNG terminal” to be put on the agenda before item 12! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 51, for - 32, for - 1. Decision adopted. So there are amendments to the agenda. After a break we will consider the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education”, then – “Amendments to the Law on General Education”, and then – the draft law “On the liquefied natural gas terminal of Skulte”. Time to break. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name Andrejs Klementyevs to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U145	Good afternoon, honourable Members! Not registered: Gundars Dauge, Artuss Neimins, Aleksandrs Kiršteins... No, Ivan Klementjevs, Jānis Krišāns, Viesturs Liepkalns, Inguna Rībena, Edvins Šnore, Jānis Urbanovičs and Inese Voika. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U146	Thank you. Interruption until 2 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U147	Dear colleagues, We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Education Act’. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Member Linda Medne.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U148	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Highly respected Minister, colleagues! The Commission for Education, Culture and Science has examined the received proposals for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” (No. 1519/Lp13) related to the transition to Latvian-language training. 23 proposals have been tabled for the third reading. 1. - Member Pimenova's proposal. It is encouraged to clarify Section 9.1 of the Law by stating that general education at private education institutions is obtained in the state language or another language in primary and secondary education. Given that the proposal provides for a different concept from the draft law, the proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U149	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U150	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen, For the third reading, I clarified the proposal put forward for the second reading, which was rejected. At the time, by supplementing the first reading rule that private education institutions acquire education in public language, I proposed that private education institutions acquire education in public language or another language. Now for the third reading, I have clarified the educational phase and attributed the acquisition of education at private education institutions to the level of basic and secondary education in general. Consequently, my proposal does not affect private universities. I would remind you that I am supplementing the rule supported at first reading. Firstly, it restricts the constitutional right of persons belonging to minorities to acquire education and to maintain and develop their language and identity. Secondly, it clearly aligns private education institutions with public education institutions in determining the language of instruction, which radically reduces the autonomy of private education institutions. The recognition of the autonomy of private education institutions is derived from Article 13 of the General Convention for the Protection of National Minorities of the Council of Europe, which states: “As part of their education systems, the Parties undertake to recognise that persons belonging to national minorities are entitled to establish and run private education and training institutions.” After the amendments adopted in 2018, the Law on Education, which already significantly reduced the possibilities of private education institutions to implement training in minority languages, submitted a constitutional complaint to the Constitutional Court. On the basis of the constitutional complaint there was an open case of the Constitutional Court regarding the fact that amendments to the Education Law limited the fundamental rights of a person. In its judgment, the Constitutional Court agreed that the contested norm limits the fundamental rights of a person, but recognised that this restriction is proportionate and complies with the Satversme, however, two judges from six of the Constitutional Court spoke with a special opinion, stressing that private education should be more autonomous than public education. In connection with the exhaustion of the means of defending constitutional rights, the constitutional complainant has lodged a complaint with the European Court of Human Rights, where the case was opened. Given that previous amendments to the Education Law, which have significantly reduced the use of minority languages in private education, are being challenged by the European Court of Human Rights, I now... and it is now not necessary to support new amendments in Latvian law, which further restrict fundamental rights; moreover, in June 2020 Latvia received an opinion from the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe on amendments to Latvian legislation on minority education. The Venice Commission recommended that Latvia comply with its international commitments and recommended that private schools be excluded from the amendment package. In the light of these arguments, I propose that the rights of private education institutions, supported at first reading, be prevented from being restricted to the language of instruction and that general education in private education in primary and secondary education be obtained in a state language or another language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U151	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, what is to be added?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U152	The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U153	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U154	2. - Member Pimenova's proposal. Add paragraph 1 of Section 9(2) of the Education Law by stating that education can be obtained in another language in educational institutions, which implement educational programmes also in the framework of international cooperation programmes. The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U155	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U156	Good afternoon! I suggest that education can be obtained in other languages in educational institutions, where education programmes are implemented not only in accordance with the bilateral or multilateral international agreements of the Republic of Latvia, as is now stipulated by law, but also within the framework of international cooperation programmes. This is about programmes that universities start without waiting for a bilateral or multilateral international agreement of the Republic of Latvia. There were specific cases where universities, for example in cooperation with the Japanese University, could not begin to enforce the agreement simply because the law prohibited the use of a particular language. In my view, this is a very practical proposal. Please support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U157	Name to Member Karl Shadursky.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U158	Dear President, Dear colleagues, By supporting this proposal, we would have actually destroyed all the work that we have done so far, because one thing is if Latvia concludes an agreement with another country on cooperation in the field of education... When concluding this agreement, all aspects of cooperation shall be assessed and the agreement shall be concluded only if it is mutually beneficial. If Mr. Pimenova proposes to add a norm... to expand to programmes, then there are a great many open programmes in which Member States join either at the beginning of several or after each other. If we allow these languages to be regulated, including within the framework of international programmes, then after some time another country that is far from friendly to us can join an international programme in which Latvia has joined. As a result, the entire language framework in the field of education is being abolished. Since this is an extremely dangerous proposal and does not in any way correspond to the concept that we have at the heart of making these amendments to the Education Act and the General Education Act. I call for this proposal to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U159	The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U160	Dear colleagues, I hope that you and, first of all, Mr Šadurskis are familiar with the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union on the preliminary ruling in response to the application of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Latvia, which deals specifically with international cooperation. And if you look at the language used by the Luxembourg court, this is not about international treaties, but it is about international cooperation, and that is just logical. I would like to remind you of the principle of university autonomy - university autonomy also means that universities... universities freely choose their international cooperation, not only through transnational agreements, but also through their academic interests and their autonomy. By rejecting Mr Pimenova's proposal, we will actually end up in conflict with the judgment of the Luxembourg court. At present, I do not want to assess and predict what will be decided by the Constitutional Court, applying the proportionality of their limitations and so on, but it is a restriction, and it was said by the Luxembourg court. So, Mr Shadurski, all the respect for you, but you are not right, and what you claim is contrary to European Union law. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U161	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U162	Dear colleagues, I don't mean to hear from Mr. Shadursky what he said. It is not about cooperation between countries, it is about scientific cooperation, learning one or the other programme - a programme accepted and accepted by the Republic of Latvia. And this is not about countries, but about personalities! During the period of the Republic of Latvia at the university and not only... gave and read lectures scientists with worldly words, and no one asked them what language they would speak, but their main merit in scientific work was their authority in the relevant scientific profession. Therefore, this proposal, formulated by Mr Pimenova, without even referring to courts, is logical, because it not only results from university autonomy, but it improves and improves teaching work in universities. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U163	The name to Member Karl Shadursky for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U164	Dear colleagues, Mr Dolgopolov, if you had noticed that the law we are currently watching is the Law on Education, not the Law on Higher Education, then... this is about all educational institutions. And if you can name me just one scientist with a world name that can't read lectures in English, then it would be very interesting. And the English language, as we know, is one of the official languages of the European Union, so with regard to European languages, at least in the field of universities, there is a completely different regulation: in any study programme, a certain percentage point of credit can be delivered in any of the official languages of the European Union. Your arguments were therefore completely out of place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U165	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U166	The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U167	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - the motion put forward by Member Pimenova. Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 14, it's against - 52, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U168	3. - Member Pimenova's proposal. It is encouraged to supplement item 2.1 of Section 9(2) of the Education Law in order to ensure also the official language learning of the candidate countries of the European Union. The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U169	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U170	I come to the assistance of the rapporteur and will explain my proposal in a number of possible details. I propose that the number of foreign languages in which education can be provided not only in the official languages of the European Union, as is now stipulated by law, but also in the languages of the candidate countries of the European Union... This is about Ukraine. Although the Saeima and the government have on several occasions expressed their support for the accelerated accession of Ukraine to the European Union, it will take some time, and we understand that very well. In order to facilitate the compliance of Ukraine with the requirements of the European Union, Latvia is already giving it a number of forms of support, but it is important that Ukrainian citizens themselves feel that they are already treated as their own in the Member States of the European Union, that the European Union is waiting for them, especially for Ukrainian refugees who find asylum in the Member States of the European Union. How can Latvia help those 30 thousand Ukrainian civilians who have been issued with residence documents? 32 percent of refugees are children, most of whom are between 2 and 17 years of age, i.e. preschool and school age. Finding and finding an opportunity for them to learn, even in part, in mother tongue would be the best way to help strengthen the optimism and self-esteem of refugee families. Article 13.1 of the Ukrainian Civil Support Law in force on the rights of Ukrainian civilians to education provides that a minor Ukrainian civilian at the level of pre-school or primary education is entitled to acquire a minority education programme which is implemented in Ukrainian language, subject to compliance with the education law regarding the language of education in minority education programmes. However, the draft law under consideration, already supported at first and second readings, terminates the implementation of minority education programmes and reduces the education of minority children to language, culture and history. Therefore, I propose that educational establishments whose subjects of general education programmes are wholly or partially implemented in a foreign language should ensure that the official languages of other European Union or European Union candidate countries are acquired in accordance with the national standard of education. And when Ukraine becomes a member of the European Union, the task of the Latvian home will already be fulfilled. I call on you to support this proposal by going on the road that we are already on to support Ukraine by supporting the Ukrainians; to support those who found asylum in Latvia and to encourage their further admission into the family of the Member States of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U171	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U172	The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U173	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -14, for -57, for -1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U174	4. - the proposal from Members Kucin and Kabanov. Add a new point to the second paragraph of Section 9 of the Education Law, stating that education in another language can be obtained in educational institutions implementing special education programmes. The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U175	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U176	Good afternoon, colleagues! I ask you to support our proposal precisely for humanitarian reasons. Our proposal concerns pupils who will receive special or inclusive education. These are people with multiple disorders, with diagnosis and so on. As far as I am aware, the Education, Science and Culture Commission on Tuesday discussed this issue. In our Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity, there was also this issue, legal advisor to the Minister of Education and Science, Mr Jānis Ozola. But he did not actually answer the question of how the ministry can cover the shortage of teachers in special education. There are a number of proposals to build a network of teachers' assistants and so on, to educate more people who do not have educational training but people... teachers in a special school told me that at present there are no staff, teachers do not have the opportunity to work with children with disabilities. That is why I am asking for our proposal to be supported for humanitarian reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U177	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U178	The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U179	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - Mr Kucin and Mr Kabanova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! 15, 54, abstain - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U180	5. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. It is encouraging to clarify the wording of Article 30 of the law of amendments supported at second reading. The proposal has been partially supported and included in the Commission7. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U181	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U182	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Also suggests clarifying the wording of Article 30 of the amendments supported at second reading. This proposal has also been partly supported and included in the Commission7. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U183	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U184	7. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Taking into account discussed by the Ministry of Education and Science and the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, the wording of the responsible commission on amendments to Article 30 of the Law, which provides that the head of an educational institution is entitled to work if he understands and uses the state language. The proposal provides for action in the event that it is established that the head of the institution does not use the national language to the appropriate extent. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U185	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U186	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Clarifying the second reading. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U187	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U188	9. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. It is encouraging to clarify the wording of Article 48 of the law of amendments supported at second reading. The proposal has been partially supported and included in the Commission 11. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U189	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U190	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Also suggests clarifying the wording of the second-reading amendments to Article 48 of the law. This proposal has also been partly supported and included in the Commission11. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U191	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U192	11. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Taking into account the discussions between the Ministry of Education and Science and the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, the version of the Commission on amendments to Article 48 of the Law has been established. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U193	Start the debate... No, Members do not want to debate. Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U194	12. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is encouraged to exclude Article 9 of the draft law, which provides for the expression of the limitations of Article 50 of the law to work as a teacher... point 3 of the first subparagraph at second reading as in the new version. The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U195	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U196	13. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It is planned to state in a new version Article 9 of the draft law, in a new version, paragraph 3 of the first paragraph of Article 50 of the law on restrictions on working with a teacher, by stating that a person who, according to the establishment of the State Language Centre, has failed to pass the state test on the lack of knowledge of its state language to a certain level. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U197	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U198	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. Called by letter of the Minister of Education and Science dated 26 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U199	The proposal has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U200	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Proposal by Members Papule, Dombrovskis, Golubeva, Bikše, Rukšane-Šchipčinska, Skride, Dūrīšs and Steel. The proposal for the addition of Article 55 on Education Rights, which was supported at second reading, is encouraged to be reworded. As a result of the discussion, the wording of the proposal has been clarified and is therefore partly supported and incorporated in the Commission18. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U201	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U202	Madam President, colleagues. At this point, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, and also you, colleagues, for hearing the previous call for help to some extent - to hear and support professional approaches in education and training so that our teachers can work individually, personally and that this adaptation period can be implemented in accordance with the 21st century - as most countries are doing at present. In addition, I would just remind you that both our new standard of competence (as new but almost existing) and the OECD recommendations and many teaching materials, which are based on trends of the 21st century, are now speaking about personalised and personalised support. I am grateful that Latvia will also have strengthened these new educational trends, including legislation. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U203	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U204	In the Commission, this proposal is partly supported and included 18. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U205	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U206	16. - Member Shadursky's proposal. The proposal to add a new paragraph to Article 55 on Education Rights, which was supported at second reading, is encouraged. In the Commission, this proposal is partly supported and included 18. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U207	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U208	17. - Asheraden's proposal. The proposal for the addition of Article 55 on Education Rights, which was supported at second reading, is encouraged to be reworded. This proposal has also been partly supported and incorporated 18. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U209	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U210	18. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Having evaluated several proposals received by the Commission on the addition of a new point to Article 55 “Educated rights” as well as on the basis of amendments supported by the Second Reading of the Law on General Education, the Commission has established a version of the relevant Article 55, stating that the student has the right to receive individualised and personalised support for the acquisition of state language skills in pre-school and primary education, if necessary. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U211	Let us start a debate. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U212	Hello, colleagues! Yes, this is indeed a proposal made by the Commission and supported by the Commission for support in this case for national language learning in pre-school and primary education, but at the Commission's meeting one thing has fallen past, and it applies to those people who communicate in sign language. Of course, sign language is adapted to different languages, but is this directly readable for people whose communication does not take place through speech... whether it can be read in this way, I have some doubts about it personally, so I think that we will have to come back to this issue sometime. But I call for the specific proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U213	I closed the debate. The speaker also calls for support for the proposal. Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U214	19. - Member Pimenova's proposal. It is encouraged to extend the period of entry into force of the amendments to the law provided for in the transitional provisions. The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U215	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U216	Dear Members, Honourable Members! However, I propose that the cessation of training in minority languages be postponed for a period of three years - I propose to mitigate the shock that educational institutions implementing minority education programmes, as well as persons and families belonging to minorities, will be forced to survive. Teachers and school administrators are expected to face new and incomparably harsher language skills tests, as well as methodological work in preparation for training in national language. Families will have to choose and decide which schools' professional collectives rely on before entrusting their children with their education... those who will be transformed or immediately send to schools that are already implementing general education programmes in Latvian. It is also necessary to ensure sufficient time for the municipal education administration to prepare for the probation and fulfilment of the requirements of the law. What processes apply to postponing the transition to Latvian-language learning? This applies both to the cessation of the implementation of the pre-primary education programme and general education programme in different classes, to the implementation of the minority education content in minority languages and to the implementation of the education programme for cultural and historical interests, as well as to measures related to changes in the state test information system, as well as to measures to ensure compliance of pre-school and primary education programmes with the new state pre-school guidelines and the state standard of primary education. I call for my proposal to be supported. Please respect the concerns that are now being taught by parents who will have their children speaking Russian in their families to prepare for the rapid pace of change that this law now promises us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U217	Name to Member Karl Shadursky.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U218	Dear colleagues, We have spent 30 years on these amendments, and a reasonable transitional period has been set - three years, during which we will completely move to education in the state language and eliminate the isolation of our education system, we will actually create a unified education system in Latvia. Of course, one can always ask for arguments as to why some transitional period is still to be extended, but I would like to say in brief words what is, in fact, happening with these amendments. College we have a state language, general secondary education we have a state language, vocational education we have a state language, these amendments apply only to pre-school and primary school. Moreover, we already have certain language proportions in primary school - that is, either 50 per cent at the beginning or more; at the end of primary school, we already have all the tests in the state language. In fact, this is a relatively small change, if it can be said, but it is an enormous change in the whole of our system. And I am very happy that we finally have enough votes in this Saeima to take this step. I would like to congratulate all the Members of the Saeima, at least those who will vote in favour... not on this proposal, but on the draft law as a whole, and I would like to congratulate all of our students, parents, educators, academic staff, because in the end we can start thinking only about access to education and quality, and we do not have to think about the other problems that we are going to put a stop to today. Of course, we will only make a point in legal terms. There is still an enormous amount of work to be done to ensure that this reform is truly successful and successful, and we need constant monitoring so that we do not lose quality at any stage of implementation of the educational reform, which is of course the highest... focus on our education system. I thank all those who support this draft law once again. Thank you to the Minister of Education and Science and the Commission responsible. And, of course, we cannot say no to Mr Asheraden, whose vigilant leadership has led this process. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U219	The name to Member Igor Pimenov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U220	19. - Member Pimenova's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U221	Mrs. Mednes! The name to Member Igor Pimenov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U222	I understand that I want to push this bill forward as soon as possible. Mr Shadursky, and everyone who hears us now, without Mr. Karlis Shadursky! It is not true that for 30 years Latvia went to this law. Latvia went to diversity, Latvia went to integration of society, to multiculturalism, to the guarantees of preservation of nature, which the People's Front promised us. I well remember my conversation with Eric Schkapar. Those who have been on the People's Front, on the People's Front of Latvia, well remember the person who was one of the ideologists; who had holy faith in the ideals that were announced, declared at the very beginning of the popular movement. And the fact that we're actually removing all this age... we're getting out of our history as something that hasn't happened is also characteristic of... So, we went to... to a lot. We went to Bulgarian education. It was also our age, which began in 1999, just one year after this law was passed in its foundations, and the linguistic teachings were also the icon that all politicians, school administrators, and sometimes they believed, even though we understood well what it really could come to an end. But we believed and fulfilled the tasks of the state. Now... Everything promised to us proved to be just a preparatory work for this draft law. So it was a lie. The country goes on a very dangerous, false road.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U223	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U224	Dear colleagues, It is a joy to see the law coming in for years. Mr. Shadursky is happy, happy and can feel free, but... At the same time, however, we should also end by saying that none of the education ministers, including Mr Šadurskis, have done anything to really strengthen Latvian language in universities, secondary schools, primary schools and pre-school institutions. Nothing! And so today the biggest education problem in schools is the lack of Latvian language teachers. I am not talking about teaching aids, programs, or anything else. Today we are talking about the need for language in the learning process. It is, of course, important, but it is not dogma, and life is much wider and more diverse than it looks like Mr Shadursky and perhaps another one. That is why it is the proposal that has been made: it is just because today there is already an end to the shortage of teachers in schools. The shortage of qualified teaching staff in universities also shows, by the way, that it is necessary to think, as Mr Shadursky also said, about quality... the quality of education. It's a priority number one. It is important for us that people, at the end of an educational establishment, have developed much higher than today. Only in this way can we compete with other European countries, with other countries in the world - with this wealth, namely with people who are educated, who are self-sustaining. Self-thinking! There is a lack of self-sustaining thinking, among other things, among the Members of the Saeima... one another. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U225	The name of Member Ieva Acuratere.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U226	Hello, dear colleagues! I would like to express my opinion and say... to name things in the right name. I think that, in its position, the representatives of the Russian Federation, as they express their desire to defend and save the new generation, the new generation of their nationalities - the young Russians. I believe that this is quite the opposite: this unwillingness to allow young people to be assimilate in a country they love and respect, which they regard as their home, and to integrate into it with great joy, which they are also doing - this is a regression to a great extent. It is my honour and pleasure to know very many young people of Russian nationality and young people who, with great joy, speak Latvian in public space and who would be as normal when living in France to read, for example, the names of shops in French - just as they do here, in Latvia, in Latvian. And they're happy to... For example, artists, musicians create their own... Creative wonders, their art in the language of their father, mother and wonderfully music here and integrate into the real. And it is they, the young Russians I know - who are those who want to be normal citizens of the 21st century, who love the country in which they live, where they may even have been born; perhaps one parent of them is a Latvian and the other Russian. And they want to feel respected here, they can share with us in our homeland. I believe that it is a pretend that Russian young people cannot learn good Latvian or that it is a huge drama that children will have to learn Latvian from an early age. I think that's not true. The truth is that we must allow these people to be integrated, and we want it, and they also want to be the citizens of the 21st century. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U227	The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U228	Highly respected Mrs. Aquaratere! I also know very many young people who are loyal to Latvia, proud of Latvia, speak Latvian freely and who have received education... Also, in part... in their mother tongue. Do you really think that we stand up for young people not to know the language of the country? Existing binary system... Colleagues, where you live at all, I really don't understand, in some of your fictional world? ( Milestones.) I argued that the graduates of the Bulgarian schools speak Latvian freely; that the Ministry has no statistics that those graduates of minority programmes would not be able to study in Latvian universities. There are no such statistics! They are very successful in education, they compete very successfully in the labour market. Do you really think that only Latvian should be taught in order to learn Latvian? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Well, I'm sorry, that's... 19th century. And, to be honest, I would not particularly talk about some initiatives in the run-up to the elections instead of Conservatives, because that is what the Conservative Party is typical of at the moment. We see this all very well. And, Mr Shadursky, I am really happy that you finally remember quality. You will follow the quality now. What did you do when you were a minister? What did you do all these years? What quality are you talking about if even prestigious Latvian gymnasses lack teachers? What do you think about those schools that implement minority education programmes that simply lack Latvian language teachers? What quality? ( Internouncing call.) You did not create any quality monitoring system either! You are interested in just one thing - that everything should be formally in one language. You consider diversity to be an anomaly, but that is not the case. Latvia is always proud of its diversity. And read, please, the beautiful reports submitted by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to international organisations - how do we take care of the right of minorities to maintain their identity? You just don't know the country you live in. You have no idea what they think or want people who work mostly not in public work but pay taxes and keep us as Members, maintain public administration. Therefore, Mr Shadursky, I very much wish you not to forget the quality of this keyword that you have just mentioned. And I am very interested in how you control it and how you will finally set up a quality monitoring system. In fact, it was handed over by the Constitutional Court to the Ministry that you were then leading - as early as 2005 - but it has not been fulfilled so far by you and your descendants in ministerial posts. It will really be a complete disaster... I call on you to support Mr Pimenova's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U229	Name to Member Ritvar Janson.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U230	Just wonder what kind of arguments SATISFY uses to delay the complete transition to training in the state language. In both the Commission and here in Saeima's meeting room, we heard that it would be segregation - teaching only in the state language. I call on Members to reject both this proposal and others, because that is exactly the segregation - that we still have Russian schools and Latvian schools. We need to have public and general education.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U231	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U232	Two things. First thing. Mr. Janson, we need to be accurate! Segregation here was in a very different context, and it was due to the fact that there may be signs of segregation in a single school. It was a completely different context and a different idea. The second thing. None of the Members of SASKA had ever opposed the need to know the Latvian language of everyone living in Latvia. It is about something else; it is about what we want to achieve, whether we want to create a language environment with the aim of learning the language, whether we want to improve the education system as such, on the basis of quality principles. And, by the way, when talking about minority programmes - when there were exams in Latvian in Latvian in Latvian and so-called minority schools, there were years when in schools with non-Latvian languages those indicators in Latvian were much higher... either, not much higher, but higher than in Latvian schools. So, generally speaking, the fact that pupils, their parents, Members from SAVE do not want to do so - so also... It's a scam, it's a lie, because we've been talking about it all the time. The first language law has actually appeared... Maybe you remember when... and what was done at that time, because today, unfortunately (and what we are talking about) the system is not ready. The system is not ready. Who is suffering from this? The system? Not at all. Pupils, pupils’ education, the quality of pupils’ education are concerned about this, and there are concerns about it (Interface: “Time!” ), which, unfortunately, is not held by the Ministry of Education and Science. Thank you. ( Interface: “The time is running out! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U233	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be explained on behalf of the Commission, please?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U234	The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U235	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 19. - Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U236	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Editative clarification. Supported and included 22. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U237	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U238	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. It is encouraged to add two new points to the transitional provisions. In the Commission, the proposal is partly supported and included 22. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U239	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U240	In the course of the discussions that have started with the previous proposals being discussed, I would like to say that I will give my opinion on this proposal and on the whole of the draft law together, because we are now coming to an end. What we have heard from Mrs Acuratere - this will, of course, ever be enshrined on the plate on the Saeima's wall - next to the two that are already standing. Happily ass. See if this phrase was expressed in any culuar or Soros Foundation... At the Consultative Council of the Ministry of Education and Science on Minority Education... In 1999, 2002, 2003, 2004, when there was enthusiasm in society, especially in the circles that came from the government, that there would be agreement and unity in Latvia, that would be a huge scandal, because the word "assimilation", Mrs Acuratere, was a lumard. The word was used by those who really hated Latvia's independence, those who threatened to end early or late all this yell around the integration of society and binary learning. A completely different slogan was on all the tables and at least on all the lips - we are for a united Latvia. Where will European values over everything... And one of the values is the preservation of identity. It is the identity, the desire for identity that is actually the most important, if not the sole and primary spring of the restoration of Latvia's independence. It created a country in which we now live. Yes! What else if not identity? If you respect the identity of your people, why are you speaking with a calm heart about the possible assimilation of another people, and perhaps happyly assimilate? It seems to me that such words are not just contradicting what you are now... what we have been talking about and hearing for the last 30 years... Although some politicians went to... these days... but also runs counter to what is now the European Union's main daily slogan: democracy and human dignity. I call on you to imagine what Mrs Acuratere has said, because it really is an important warning and the border to which we are very fast approaching. I call on us not to support either this proposal or this draft law, which we are considering today in the third, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U241	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U242	Dear President, Honourable Members! Two things only. It is very wrong to say that other nations live here in Latvia. That's exactly what the Kremlin always pushes - that in Latvia, here's... We were told in the past that there were two congregations here. So Latvians are a community. But now... Thank you, it now turns out that we are honored as a nation and there is another nation. When I listened, I realized that Latvia wanted to re-use Russia, because the only nation - the Russian people - lives in Russia. There are only different ethnic groups living in Latvia, where ethnic groups can be within the meaning of the European Community Minority Convention... Not in the sense of the European Communities, but within the meaning of the Council of Europe, there can be both minorities and simply ethnic groups who have arrived in some way. So there are no two peoples here. And the other about that assimilation. The UN Refugee Convention... Mr. Pimenov, read it, says there that the countries that receive refugees in the longer term promote the assimilation of these people - clear and bright - rather than parallel some kind of living in the majority compared to the basic nation, as it happens in Riga. And this is often referred to here... and I also read comments that here, the nationalists want to ban Russian or something else. There's nothing to do with nationalities. Those who came from the USSR and spoke Russian could be a hundred representatives of different nationalities. Whether this is an error, or knowingly it is said that the people are in some way Latvian. So the representatives of the 100 Russian-speaking or Russian-speaking nations, these ethnic groups in Latvia, are named a nation that we would like to assimilate in some way. That is not true. But the refugee convention points to the need for this assimilation, and assimilation does not mean that a person forgets his mother tongue. Well, someone has to do with it, if he goes to the Latvian kindergarten, he speaks perfectly in Latvian. And you have a good example - Mr Dolgopolov, for example, in Latvian is better than most members of the Saeima in Latvian, because he has studied in a good Latvian kindergarten. Why do you want to deny this privilege to other children who have come here or are descendants of Russian speakers who have come to the USSR? In no way can it be prohibited in the family (Interior call.) ... and in no way does it interfere, say, with learning Russian in schools as an additional language, as a third language, perhaps as a fourth language - no ban anywhere. But these two things should be remembered. Well, don't tell me, there's a nation here. It's just shameful! Read, please, also the UN Refugee Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U243	The name to Member Igor Pimenov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U244	Before quoting the Refugee Convention, Mr Kirštein, ask those people you call refugees whether they regard themselves as refugees in Latvia. Those who were born here 20 years ago, 40 years ago, right after the war - maybe some of our grandparents and grandparents have arrived here in Latvia during the post-war period - the new generations consider themselves part of Latvia, they are not refugees. They are not refugees in any way. And it is a mistake, and the fact that it is wrong is recognised by the whole of Latvia's being in the European Union, all these developments, where Latvia has gradually integrated into the European Union. No political party in the European Union, with the exception of some of the minorities represented here in the Saeima, does not consider Latvian minorities as refugees. Just take that into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U245	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U246	You can't thank Mr Kirstein for his compliment. I don't think that language is the best language in Latvia, but it's not a story. No one doubts... and no one expresses anything against their historical fact that Latvia is a national country where the main nation is Latvians – the Latvian nation. What was the opposite? I think none of you have heard from us, from our colleagues... That's one thing. The other thing. Historically, representatives of different nationalities - not refugees, but representatives of different nationalities - lived here. In some times, their share was higher, they were smaller, depending on how our history developed, but they were representatives of nationalities. And today, when we talk about the fact that minority representatives have to keep their identity, it does not mean that one of us is against Latvian language, against Latvian culture. Nobody's done that. But in the Ulman time when nationalist issues were first in the plan... Although the National Association has been much more active and sharper than it has been, education in various languages has remained. Kirstein quoted my biography. I have finished the so-called ‘Lomonosov Gymnasium’, well, then it was called differently, but it was the ‘Lomonosov Gymnasium’ with the Russian language, the language of instruction. So you don't have to mix things up and you don't have to lie! All that is being called into question is the things that have to be done and had to be done by the Ministry of Education and Science (not only for them, but also for the Saeima), but which have not been done until this white day - this is the point of one. The two points are, however, that multiculturalism, which was always Latvia's wealth at all times, must be preserved, and representatives of other nations must also be respected. You have to respect if you want to respect you. However, I call for this draft law not to be supported as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U247	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U248	Yes, I would like to point out to my colleagues that it is difficult to compare the population of Latvia, which was in the interwar period and which was created after the restoration of independence. And in all these discussions, I think it would be worth understanding to the SAIC Members what Ukraine will have to do after the release of its territories in Crimea with those Russian citizens who have been displaced there illegally thrown into the occupied territories of Ukraine. That is the same situation. Do you really also think that the Ukrainians would be obliged to retain the right to stay there and to provide them with special education, which is very closely linked to the Russian Federation, once the territory has been released? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U249	I closed the debate. The debate is closed. I understand that the speakers have asked for a vote - both in favour of 21. ( Milestones.) , which has been partly supported, but also on the 22nd proposal, which has been supported by the Commission. Is something to be explained in the name of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U250	Proposal 21 has been partly supported and incorporated 22. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U251	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 21. - the proposal submitted by the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U252	22. - a proposal from the committee responsible. In a new version, Article 12 of the draft law on supplementing the law with new points in the transitional provisions is being formulated. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U253	That is what the vote was asked for. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 22. - The proposal submitted by the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 60, for - 14, for - 1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U254	And closing, 23. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is encouraged to rule out the entry into force of the law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U255	Let's start a debate. Name of Minister of Education and Science Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U256	I would ask you to combine the times of the debate. Is it possible to bring together the times of the debate, please?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U257	Yes, of course. The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U258	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Dear Members and honourable Members, This is the final proposal for a draft law on the complete transition to state language learning in all schools in Latvia. This is a moment before... before we finally take this much-needed, long-awaited, step for so many years to re-engage schools and strengthen the position of Latvian as the only language in the country. Today is September 29, 2022, and this year is an important time for the world as a whole, which encourages us to think more and more about what is truly important. The eighth month since Russia started the brutal war in Ukraine, the eighth month of the Ukrainian people's struggle to defend the fundamental values of its nation - freedom, territorial indivisibility, culture and also language. And this time shows us how permissive treatment in the country's language can be used by an aggressor country as a pretext for its horrendous crimes. The Russian invasion has accelerated the linguistic awakening, as Russian is now becoming increasingly associated with military aggression and the many atrocities that are being committed. Today I would like to ask: how many people in Latvia support Latvian not only as the only state language, but also as the only language in schools, and how many here in the hall, those who support it? Yes, language change is a slow process and in order to talk about a much more cohesive society, we are likely to expect a generation that will only be learned in Latvian and whose adult children will be members of our society. However, safeguarding their values has often brought more sacrifices to the nations than just time or patience. The vote was due to take place on 29 September this year in the 1990s. Moreover, it was not just a story of indecision or lack of courage at that time. In fact, for those 30 years, we had been playing with fire - not only divided society and divided children according to the language used by the family, but also risking that it was the language that could become the launch mechanism for a cruel war. But our duty in front of our children and their children is to stop playing with fire. I therefore hope that this day will become a significant turning point, when we finally act decisively and stand up for the fundamental values of our people, when we are courageous and without victims gain what comes so hard to other nations. We need to learn from this painful situation. It is our responsibility, and it is our duty, to all of Latvia and future generations. Today, 29 September, we need to put an end to the 30-year silence, while we can prevent its consequences from changing regulation, from providing support and from learning more language skills, because what the Ukrainians are fighting in heavy battles today gives us the opportunity to achieve in peaceful lessons. While in Ukraine, fighting for values, the people have to watch the collapse of homes and schools, schools can become a value and a hill of Latvianism. 29 September should become the day when schools begin to unite, not divide, the day when we finally decide that all children will be given equal opportunities to get quality education in Latvian. Our decision today means a safe, opportunities-rich future for every child, and I know that there are many such in Latvia. They are wise, curious, and able young people with a wide range of opportunities for the future. Therefore, the best thing we can do is to give these opportunities to all children to learn the state language and to allow the creation of a united society in Latvia. In conclusion, I would like to thank my colleagues at the Ministry of Education and Science very much who, despite the initial insecurity in the autumn of last year, were ready to take this step together when we started to discuss this idea. I would also like to thank the former Minister of Education and Science, Kārlis Šadurskis, who, as a first step in strengthening the proportion of Latvian language in schools, had actually prepared the ground for today's decision. Thank you to my colleagues in the government for supporting the further progress of this reform. I also thank the members of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science for their national responsibility in examining these two draft laws. And thank you to each of you who will support these amendments. Thank you to anyone who always has the mind and heart on Latvia's side in mind and in his works. For strong, for democratic and always free Latvia! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U259	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission to this technical proposal?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U260	The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U261	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U262	All 23 proposals have been examined. I call for support for the third, final reading of the draft law on amendments to the Education Act.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U263	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Education Act” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 63, for - 16, for - 1. (Applause) The law has been passed. Draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on General Education’, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Member Linda Medne.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U264	Draft Act on Amendments to the Law on General Education (No. 1520/Lp13) is related to the recently examined draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” (No. 1519/Lp13). In the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, one proposal for a draft law has been drawn up for the third reading. 1. - a proposal from the committee responsible. In view of the fact that the draft law on amendments to the Education Act supported the proposal to exclude the entry into force of the law, such a proposal was created in this draft law as well. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U265	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U266	All the proposals have been examined. I call for support for the third, final reading of the draft law on amendments to the General Education Act.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U267	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on amendments to the General Education Act, third, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 62, against -16, refraining from -1. The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U268	Thank you to Members for their historic votes.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U269	Thank you to the Minister for Education for taking part in the Saeima sitting and also for the debate. (Applause) On the agenda - draft law “On the LNG terminal”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U270	So we are working on the draft law “On the LNG terminal” (No. 1655/Lp13). The draft law is prepared by the Ministry of Economics in accordance with the... because according to the decision of the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers on August 30, 2022, the Ministry of Economics together with the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development and other responsible ministries had to prepare and before September 20, the Ministry of Economics had to submit to the Cabinet a draft law on special procedure for implementing the project of the Skulte liquefied natural gas terminal, which also specified the objectives of the law. and also the time limit by which the project is to be implemented. So there were various issues in the committee that led the draft law, and Members proposed that the draft law be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U271	Are you going to talk about urgency? So "for" or "for"? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Nemiro: ‘ Against!’ ) 'No' to the bill of urgency - Member Ralph Nemiro.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U272	Dear colleagues, I call not to support the urgency of the draft law because this is a very long-lasting and serious draft law. It affects our national interests, it also affects those reservations that we have made in the Latvian National Energy and Climate Plan 2021-2030. We have agreed to give up the use of natural gas as a fossil fuel in time. On the contrary, this draft law currently calls for a specific status for the liquefied gas terminal, thus supporting the heating and energy use of natural gas. It has to be said that we can never look at energy loose, we should look at the market as a whole. Now it is a vast territory - Finland, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland has now joined. Thus, both the Lithuanian LNG terminal and the future LNG terminal in Estonia provide additional capacity that we can store in Incukalns natural gas storage. It is very well understood how precisely it is possible to save, it is understood what capacity is available to the transmission system, as well as how this system can include liquefied natural gas terminals that have already been built or are about to be built. Consequently, another terminal, which we have in place in Skulte, on the coast of the sea - which I believe no resident who is there and should listen to - is a wrong decision in this case, because already now, if system operators can agree with each other, this capacity will be able to resolve the security of supply and independence of natural gas. The second case, which is very important, is, however, this draft law provides for the desire to receive some state guarantees from the Latvian state-owned company Latvenergo. Consequently, the most lenient driver of this project is the donor of one party, and this is not a secret. It is not yet very clear whether there is any risk of corruption in this procedure. Most importantly (I will now speak in the context of a possible application to the Constitutional Court) - it is not possible to discuss enough, to analyse all the risks, including the members of the commission and members of the parliament, regarding the necessity of this terminal, environmental issues and which this terminal deals with in general. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals, which has been discussed in the Commission - 15 minutes - is not sufficient to discuss, discuss and consider the question of whether this terminal is necessary or whether this draft law should be dealt with as a matter of urgency. If someone applies to the court (probably this will be the case), this issue will certainly also be dealt with through the prism, how quickly, how quickly this draft law was discussed and what was the procedure for adopting the draft law. You could have offered another 15 seconds! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U273	Does one of the Members want to talk about the issue of urgency? Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “On the LNG terminal” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 52, 26, abstaining. - No. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U274	The Commission is also asking to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U275	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U276	Dear President, Honourable Members! I think that this draft law at first reading could be supported if two things were done. The Commission could do so. The first is that the first paragraph of Article 4 should be deleted here, which states that it is deleted. What is the first paragraph of Article 4? Article 4 is called... ‘... the third paragraph of Article 19 of the Law on the Protection and Management of the Marine Environment’. It is therefore deleted. A few words about what is then the third paragraph of this article. It states that according to Article 19, second paragraph, paragraph 4, the necessary structures for the production of artificial islands, buildings and energy are to be built in accordance with Article 14. And all this salt... That is what Article 14 says. It says that the Cabinet of Ministers defines the ecosystem approach in the planning process of the territory, respects the plan for environmental protection and development of the territory, as well as takes into account the specially protected nature area along the coast. Protected marine areas are protected by biodiversity, economic and recreational capacity of the marine ecosystem. Thus, one of the main articles that define the protection bands in the resort area and all the others that relate to the economic and recreational capacity of the marine ecosystem is proposed to be deleted. The Commission has not so far swung up to these details, because it is extremely interesting to write a law. So Article 19... refers to Article 19, second paragraph, point 4, which, in turn, states that Article 14 on environmental protection must be complied with. In fact, this very important thing is being deleted. Could also delete it if there were no terminals in the territory... In the resort, where the chemical facility does not have the necessary infrastructure, there are no access routes, no prevention techniques, there are no icebreaks in winter, if there is no icebreaking to the bottom (I myself live in Saulkrasti about five kilometres from the shore), no tugboats, and so forth. It could be overlooked if these explosions had not occurred recently in Denmark. And how can you see what happens when a gas pipeline explodes or leaks? ( Remember, there were two major leaks in the Beaver. There is an oil pipeline, but this pollution came to Latvia, it could not be prevented. There have also been leakages in the gas terminal in Klaipeda.) In the current situation, hundreds of thousands are being released... methane, as reported by the Danish Environmental Protection Service. Greenhouse gases are being dumped as much as about five million cars would produce. Cars in the Baltic States cannot contaminate the environment as this gas pipe explosion... Consequently, I think that is one condition to be deleted. Next: I would recommend deleting the second paragraph of Article 2 that the construction status of an object of national interest be determined. This is absolutely unnecessary, and there are reasons: the real beneficiaries are two individuals - Peter Raguš and Arnfin Unums. 20 percent of them have bought “tops”, I don’t know if they still have those shares. Is there a need for national interest... State status of any such private object? Next. It turns out, which is the most funny, that these builders have no money, they say they don't have money and they're just going to find investors now. No cost items related to the environmental impact of the site in specially protected areas are known. Capacity for this object four times exceeds the needs of Latvia, investors demand state guarantees for the purchase of gas. These guarantees could be given, and then there could be the status of this national object. In turn, if there were no such thing: so the quay is finished... Paldic LNG terminals already at the end of October. I think Members have read this open-ended interview of the Palestinian LNG owner, where he tells both the costs and all the other facts. ( In Latvian. I can give you if someone is interested.) So the terminal's capacity will be 30 terawatt-hours, calmly supplied to all the Baltic States, 30 ships per year. Two to three ships can arrive in the month. There are also 30 terawatt-hours in Klaipeda, so together they are 60 terawatt-hours, which will already be in this season. The consumption of the Baltic States, you know, is about eight to 10 terawatt hours, because we have reduced gas, we need a maximum of 10 terawatt hours, Lithuanians - 20, Estonians - about eight hours. Then it's 60... this winter will have a capacity of 60 terawatt hours, but the Poles and Finns are on the rise. And now a very interesting thing will happen: in two years' time, a sculpture with four times the capacity needed for Latvia will appear, so with about 40 more terawatt hours. Who will need 100 terawatt hours in Latvia, Lithuania or Estonia with a total consumption of 38 terawatt hours? In the free market, of course, it could lead to Poland, somewhere else, but terminals are already being built everywhere, and they will all be this winter. Next. Hetei Helz, the owner of Paldic LNG, offers to supply all Latvia with gas, if necessary, for this winter already. And what's interesting (which I didn't know, I just discovered) – both Latvijas Gāze and Latvenergo have already booked capacity there, have already met and discussed, and have agreed. ( Interface: How much did he pay?) ) I don’t know how much it paid, but there is a deal. It will therefore be difficult to move them there in two years. All this construction would be possible on one condition - if a contract is concluded with Latvenergo, that after those two years Latvenergo will guarantee that they will buy... Let us say that their price and everything will be bought from Skulte terminal. Whether this is the case or not, it is hard to say. But there's another thing. The cost of the Paldic terminal is about 45 million euros - just because it's a ship that processes everything on the site, sucks down the pipe, and after two years, when there will be a surplus on the market, they will return this ship to the firm from which they will rent it. They have no risk, no loss and, above all, no State guarantee. Come in... and check - you can enter Estonia... on the website and read - no state guarantee, no capeics. If it was said here that all of this is being built in a completely safe way, without state guarantees and free of charge, there would be no problem. But I watched with interest - Mr Pouce said on television that, however, a little will have to be paid. And that surprised me a little bit. Why should Latvian taxpayers pay for the interests of two private investors, if Estonians even offer that nothing should be paid here, they raise their own risks, take their own risks, and collect them after two years? ( Internouncing call.) So there's no charge for it. But I say there's no problem with private building. Read this interview with Paldiska... The capacity will be sufficient, this winter the amount of gas will also be sufficient. There is no need to fear anyone, but two things need to be deleted, as I said, to give up the environmental assessment and the status of a national object. Why can't private build without this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U277	Dear colleagues, Members Krišjānis Feldmans, Jānis Cielēns, Evita Zālīte-Grosa, Sandis Riekstins and Ainars Bāķis ask to continue the sitting of the Saeima without interruption until the examination of question 47, i.e. until the first reading of the draft law on the LNG terminal, and then to go 30 minutes apart. Do Members have objections? ( The box “Yes! ”) “Yes!” ) Please call us! We will vote for further consideration of the draft law “On the LNG terminal of Skulte” and then a 30-minute break will be announced on the Saeima's agenda! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 52, it's 29, it's not. Colleagues, let's keep working. We are continuing the debate. The name to Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U278	Dear colleagues, Alexander Kirštein has touched very much on very important issues in the context of this bill, so I will not repeat it, but take it into account. For my part, I would like to quote the aim of the law: “The purpose of the law is to strengthen the stability of energy supply routes in Latvia, as well as to create legal conditions in order to promote the successful establishment of the Skulte liquefied natural gas terminal.” Where are our national interests here, the purpose of the law? Where are the interests in diversifying supply routes, ensuring energy independence, and eventually reducing gas dependency as an imported energy resource are mentioned here? Nothing similar is provided for in this draft law. It is simply a wish to go through this bill in a rushed manner on the last day before the elections - today in a sitting, then quickly in a commission and again... at the end of this sitting. In this case, absurd - completely absurd - because the draft law is, however, very important, in a very serious context with our energy independence and calls for a high-quality debate within the Commission, both with experts in the sector and with citizens living near the site, who will certainly be affected... environmental aspects. Do not forget that in the case of the adoption of this law, about 100 to 150 people will also have a connection with real estate disposal. And then what are these people interested in... Are their legal interests not violated here? It is also not assessed, the draft law is simply being passed at a rapid pace, so it will have to be debated. Sources of supply. We are talking about the fact that we do not want to buy gas from Russia. There was even a proposal by individual Members in the Energy Act, which was then also formally amended and forgotten. So that we can actually shed light on this issue as well: if a ship arrives at Skulte liquefied natural gas terminal, who will be able to tell you where the gas comes from? Nobody will be able to say that, no one will be able to prove it. Consequently, no one has guaranteed whether, through this Skulte terminal, we will diversify our supply routes, and in the commercial interest, it is likely that we will bring liquefied gas from as close a place as possible. And which is the nearest place? St. Petersburg. In that case, the opposite is true: risks are not reduced, but are increasing. Another possible scenario is that those entrepreneurs who are currently flying around and are proving to be free of money for the construction of this terminal have set up a joint stock company whose shares they will then try to sell to Conexus Baltic Grid: please buy the shares of the infrastructure object so that we can continue to implement this terminal! Colleagues, I say to you: if we are faced with a dilemma about who should be dealing with this issue, this should be dealt with by the infrastructure holder Conexus Baltic Grid, who is involved in the transport of natural gas. So if the shareholders... and among the shareholders, the majority is a public limited liability company “High-voltage Network”, where the capital shares are held by the Ministry of Finance, which could then take an appropriate decision in the Cabinet of Ministers or then in Parliament and discuss whether it is necessary, within the framework of Conexus Baltic Grid, to provide this infrastructure with another extension with a liquefied natural gas terminal located... then to discuss - where, looking at the economic justification, as well as on the safety aspects, not the private investor, who is without a cent and flying around, trying to offer and flatten this liquefied natural gas terminal as a public limited company. There is no need for a rush here; this draft law must be seen accordingly, either in a few weeks' time, so that we can accept all the proposals, listen to the public, the energy experts, not within 15 minutes, as we will immediately be proposing a deadline for the submission of proposals. I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U279	Name to Member Ainārs Vilciņš. ( The ring of noise.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U280	Here, as the gentlemen are discussing the terminal. There's a normal debate there. What can I say more about the terminal? Mr. Kirstein has already said. In fact, all the gentlemen who were here today and spoke here are very correct and in fact deep... had gone into the construction of this terminal, the nuances were said very close. Mr. Kirštein just said that in Estonia, it seems like it wasn't... Yes - there are guarantees, state guarantees for one year, but in Latvia, I don't know if you know it or don't know it, want to pull it through that state guarantees will be 10 years. Then imagine what it is: there is gas, or there is no gas, this company will receive a state guaranteed pitch for 10 years, and all this will come from taxpayers' money. So again, ecology. If someone knows - natural gas goes through the trub, and there, as you could say, badness is practically very little visible. Do you know how much in that moment when the big ship goes with liquefied gas, all the bad substances go out? Imagine how much gas you need to freeze to... as long as it goes across the pond, as they say, if it comes from America... How much time it's being wasted! And no one! - Don't talk about it from the greens. By the way, if someone else said about Skulte's people... was that many of the inhabitants of Skulte who I personally know - no one is to have something there. Of course, I can say one thing: the time before the election has begun... Two days... And three or four lots want to get it all through. I'm sorry, but I think it's wrong.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U281	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U282	Hello, colleagues! Today, I heard a lot of strange, interesting things from the platform, and I don't know if there was any kind of cover and justification, so I won't talk much. I have just read one message in the media today, specifically on this subject of the agenda. I would like to quote from this information: “This, for example, is the offer of Lithuanian partners, which, first of all, prevents Latvenergo’s access to the terminal in spring and now requires the signing of a 10-year contract, provides for the possibility to provide Latvia with half of the necessary consumption. Such a favour will, however, have to pay EUR 96 million, guaranteeing supplies only after the Lithuanian traders have been satisfied. For the other half, but for the more part, we could be provided by Finnishs and Estonians, also of course only by the capacities that will be left over. For Latvian consumers this “regional cooperation” would cost 282 million euro, compared to 120 million, which would have to be paid if Latvia were to be supplied via Skulte terminal. However, it is now easier for the Ministry of Economics to ask the government for funds from unforeseen expenditure - EUR 247 million for the purchase of the current gas reserves - which is essentially a fight against the consequences of indecision. For example, in summer, it was possible to buy Spot Ships for EUR 60 per megawatt hour when the stock exchange price was over EUR 100 per megawatt hour. This means that we could save between EUR 40 and 50 million per ship. Given that Latvia's annual consumption was 12 vessels last year, the savings are obvious.” If someone has other numbers or other information about what the Skulte natural gas terminal gives us, please come and talk, otherwise, we don't wear it, because every time we miss will cost us more. Thank you. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U283	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U284	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Well, it's quite phenomenal, I'd even say, surreally, listen to everything that's said from this platform about the liquefied gas terminal. Well, what's wrong here, colleagues? We have so far had Gazprom as the only natural gas source. Does anyone here want to continue to buy gas from Gazprom? ( Internouncing call.) Well, raise your hand, say it. Because these people are definitely here. I guess you can't be afraid to lift your hand up, some of them even recently spoke from the triple... which ‘Gazprom’ in the first place. The only other way, colleagues to get liquefied gas is through the terminal. Hope for others? To Lithuanians? We had hoped for Lithuanians, but for some reason we could not get sufficient access to the Klaipėda terminal. If the capacities of the Klaipeda terminal were divided, so to say, in proportion to the consumption of the Baltic States, we could qualify for some 10-11 terawatt-hours. Instead, we got this year, how much? Two, I think okay, if four... Two, rather. What's next, colleagues? We got electricity... Sixty per cent of our consumption is supplied with natural gas. Imagine a scenario: if desynchronisation is also taking place this year in this heating season from BRELL (which is quite credible), this means that our gas supplies will be empty after the end of this heating season. What's next? The gas, the same liquefaction, somewhere you'll need, right? We have been told today that, for example, the German coalition has declared that there is a deep, serious gas crisis in Germany. And what's going on here with us, Saeima? Some colleagues tell us from the platform -- well, where to set up? You need to invite some experts and something else and talk about it. What's the hurry? But really, what's the hurry?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, If we look at the same Germany. In Germany, even at the beginning of May - again at the beginning of May - the government decided to reduce the bureaucratic time for its liquefied gas terminals 10 times - at the beginning of May! We are at the end of September today, this specific draft law is talking about perhaps creating a terminal within two years. Then there's no rush - in two years! The Germans themselves will set up their own terminals, and they will set up four terminals. One of them will be already at the end of this year... early next year. Estonia will be at the beginning of next year. Here we are called - well, we don't need to set up anywhere. Where did we go then? Well, we need to talk like that. We had been talking for so little, for half a year. Well, as I said, colleagues, some a few million years ago there are investing somewhere in our country to continue to buy the same Gazprom gas, and some naive people hope that perhaps this will come to an end and we will be able to do it again, so to say. Something else cannot explain it, because it is already quite difficult to believe in my ears and what I hear from this platform here. I therefore appeal, colleagues, to support this draft law, because it should have been supported... This draft law should have appeared in March... in April. In March... It should have appeared in April. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U285	Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U286	Hello, colleagues! First of all, energy security in Latvia is very important, and we definitely need a terminal, just... I personally think, not in Skulte and only not in one that has been overshadowed by various corruption schemes. Therefore, I think that in fact, we should be discussing today where it is and what we are using, what energy supply routes to be independent of Russia's energy. But if you're talking about this document, which is put on the table for all of us... You can split up and look at what is added there. There is also an appendix from the Cabinet of Ministers. Look at what the annex says now and what we can read: "The groups of society affected by the draft legislation, the impact on economic development and the administrative burden.... 2.1. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row: Original deduction Article 56 (c) of CRR Natural persons. No.’ What about no?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, Just you all said that there's going to be cheaper gas -- well, that's what it's going to mean. Wait... then write - "no". ‘ The impact of the legal framework on the economy." - "No." The economy will not benefit from it. Wait, coalition, what have you prepared here? Let's go. ‘ Horizontal effects.’ Impact on the environment - does the project concern this area? - No, no. No, no! In general, there will be no environmental impact, it will not be in the sea... There, I don't know where it will be, and it won't affect the environment at all. Well, I don't think I know what you've prepared here. Then I saw with great interest what some of our other colleagues have said about various things relating to this. We have repeatedly mentioned that this Skulte terminal could be a new OIC precisely because of these commitments that will be made... Whether it's Latvenergo or someone... or a public or public undertaking... and will guarantee that a certain amount will be purchased. And that has been highlighted several times by investors. A rag-a-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga. Thus Ragush, a Conservative donor, has said so. Yeah, we need state guarantees. It is therefore a new OIC project. And then I'm an incentive by Vyacheslav Dombrovskis sometime back... Though he was not in the party where I don’t know where he was, so many have been, but he’s written the article “OIC Aperture. Why could the Saeima Investigation Commission not find the perpetrators?” . And in this article... that article is tasteful, and in the end he mentions that OIC's cross-father... What do you think Vyacheslav Dombrovskis called OIC's father? Of course, our current Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš was - what? Minister for Economic Affairs. We all know how much OIC has paid to Latvia's state, nation, every citizen of the Republic of Latvia, whether it is a citizen, a non-citizen, an arrival - all OIC has paid a huge amount of money. And who is to blame for it? Crossfather Krišjānis Kariņš. And now it's Karin's government. And Karina's government seems to understand that this OIC is over. Well, so we made such decisions ourselves, all we should do is get something new. At least to the farewell. To welcome today, a few days before the parliamentary elections, a draft law is being driven, which I would say is a new OIC, because there are completely unthinkable things here. First of all, by removing the shadow of corruption over this project and the interests of the Conservative obviously sponsors, let us see why the Skulte has been chosen. They say it's the cheapest in Sculte. Perhaps, but the infrastructure is better in the port of Ventspils, Liepaja and Riga. Why can't you build in the port of Liepaja? Well, the port of Liepaja can, of course, develop the terminal. Isn't there a gas pipeline to Liepaja? There's a gas pipeline. Can't you build a new next door? And on Skulti... plans to put pressure on many private lands - it will affect the population of Vidzeme - to build, and then these private landowners will not be able to... Yes, the lawn will be able to reap, the cows will be able to feed farmers, and the crops will be planted, but you will not be able to build anything, because the value of the land will fall in the places where this gas pipeline will cross. Some protectors say yes, but there are only 40 kilometres to be pumped on Inčukalns, very quickly you can blow up. I'm sorry, there's gas pumping thousands of kilometres from Norway. There is now European Union money, and these are European Union projects, your knowledge, not business sponsor projects. The European Union has invested money in the interconnection between Poland and Norway, and it is going through Denmark - just opened up. The European Union has invested money in interconnection between Lithuania and Poland. And this is about alternative ways to buy gas in Latvia. The terminal is under construction in Paldiskos, and there are also terminals in Finland in the plan, and so the question is why these Conservative sponsors require state guarantees... It is logical that the Latvian terminal will not be cost-effective, it will be for private investors with a minus sign. It is therefore imperative that the State guarantees that the State buys new OICs. These are arguments why I personally cannot support either this draft law or this phase. Yes, it will really be a climate, and it will certainly be remembered by the people of Latvia for a long time, paying a price for electricity. And this is not just about individual households, it is about all the inhabitants of Latvia, because it is electricity that will be produced from this expensive gas. And these are our entrepreneurs who are already unable to pay electricity bills. At the same time, in order to talk about different alternative sources of electricity, the coalition, for example this year, has taken a brutal decision that peat will not be used in the future. Latvia decided that the peat would not be used; the Finns already started to dig the peat in spring to dry it. In Finland, Estonia, you can buy peat briquettes, peat pellets, among other things, there are companies in Latvia that produce electricity from chips and peat, thus reducing... The baby is four times cheaper than the slice right now - four times! - based not on tonnes, but on megawatt hours, on the energy obtained. Do you think that the gas that will come through the Skulte terminal will be four times cheaper than a slice? Well, forget! It won't be! So in fact, what was to be done to the coalition was not to talk about the Skulte liquefied natural gas terminal and how to rush this corrupt bill through, but really had to think in spring about how we get our own resources, which is lying in the bogs of Latvia. Here I will remind you that I am not talking about some kind of nature reserve area, but about the development of peat bogs, where the top round of peat for agriculture has been removed, but where this energy peat is now dying in the water. Of course, it can no longer be excavated at the moment, and it is not realistic. So what does the coalition offer by moving this bill? A new OIC, a burden for all Latvians and, I would say, also very likely dependence on Russia, because here in the Saeima, there are different speeches that investors who are linked to Russia are actually behind these developers, because this gas is not likely to be imported from Africa, I do not know what other continents, it is much easier to bring here from Petersburg. What's the difference, where it's liquefyed, how to bring it? It is certain that the seller will probably be somewhere in offshores in a very desirable country in the European Union, perhaps in an OECD country, but as a result, it will be Russian gas. I am therefore very concerned that those who drive this draft law... Is there any interest in Russia here, and I would say that the security services should also test the relationship between the drivers of this bill, because I think that there is a footstep outside, especially for our "friends" Conservatives, who are not eager to meet Raguš, and other investors to sit in cafes... Your Minister Bordāns (Interior call.) ... And if we had a proposal from the Union of Greens/Farmers and our Prime Minister Lembergs, then in Latvia the terminal would be in place before Klaipeda, in Latvia the terminal would already work for seven, perhaps eight years (Intersint.) and Latvia would be energy independent, because it was thanks to those who are sitting in this Chamber that this project was also stopped, which was delayed in 2011. And now, some parties are probably really, where there have been corrupt negotiations with certain investors, driving and developing this project. I therefore stress once again my stand for the energy independence of Latvia, but I call for an assessment of this shadow of corruption over the project, and I hope that both the prosecutor's office and other institutions will also assess the links between Conservatives and investors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U287	The name to Member Ralph's never died for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U288	Colleagues, there was also talk about free competition here, and I believe that none of us have objections to the construction of liquefied gas infrastructure, if it is market-based, but obviously there are no market-based principles, guarantees are required here to buy gas, perhaps at a fixed price, and any distortion of the market sooner or later leads to the co-payment of taxpayers, even if they do not consume gas. Do not forget the special case of Latvenergo during the construction of TEC-2. These costs, which are also based on the gas cogeneration unit, were then covered by OIC for all electricity users. The same thing is going to happen here. Here a former candidate for the PRINCIPLE Prime Minister came, told him that gas would come from Russia and so on. Perhaps we should give up on this as soon as possible. Once again, no one has guaranteed that gas will come to the LNG terminal either from Russia or from America or from other countries. It is not at all in any way agreed, and no one will be able to check it. The terminal will exist, there will be some ship that will inject gas into the system. Where did this come from? Who will be able to confirm that this vessel has not been fully or partially filled with any of the LNG facilities in Russia? No one will be able to confirm this. And don't forget that Klaipeda is already connected to the infrastructure, which means that we can already buy gas through Klaipeda infrastructure. That is the question of how active an energy company is to enable itself to do so. Yes, that is absolutely true: is the company sufficiently active? There, the shareholder should maintain care, hasten this energy company belonging to the state of Latvia and understand whether all activities have been carried out there in time for natural gas to be bought at the same time at the best price. The second question. The draft law provides for the construction of this natural gas terminal by 15 September 2024. Where did we go then? Where are we going? Two and a half years to build a liquefied gas terminal. We want it today... No, not all of us, but there are individual parties who want to ensure that this is a smooth path today. And that is just one reason: this Saturday there are elections and someone can win, someone can lose. It will be chosen by the voter. But today there is a very great desire to be able to do everything so that decisions not made in due time should not be accountable to their sponsors, such as Raguš. I call on this issue to be rejected today at second, final, reading, but to debate it in the Commission and to set a deadline for the submission of proposals, for example, three weeks. It's gonna be okay. Where are we going? Transfer time - September 15, 2024. There's a lot of time left. And that's what Member Armands Krauze has already said about illiteracy - how many legal errors have been made in this hasty bill. I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U289	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U290	We got pseudo-politicals in one wing here in the Saeima who, with their own pseudo-research... for millions of taxpayers' money spent... Disperse their political forces in oligarch business projects. Everyone knows very well that Raguš is the sponsor of the Conservative Party. They were only running this project in his interest. Public money is being put on the hands of taxpayers by another scheme. Everyone knows very well that Conservative parties... Parliamentary Secretary, Mr Butane, has been very keen here in defending the project. The Ministry of Transport is a coup d'état of corruption - a coup d'état! This project is a typical scheme that you are moving in the interests of one of your political forces, the oligarch. No national interests or security interests shall be protected or represented by this project. And now for pseudostudies. ‘ Latvenergo already invests billions in “State Forests of Latvia” to build a wind park. ‘ Latvenergo has already invested several million solar parks for construction. Why is the amount of energy already provided by these projects not calculated? Why is this fictitious security project at this speed? We all know who stands behind the leaders of this party - the crime organised by Russia. And this political force, now that it is gone, wants to ensure yet more funding flows for its oligarch. Under no circumstances should this project be supported, and I believe that society and voters need to know the truth about schemes and political corruption. Unfortunately, scientists, who are also under the authority of this ministry, spent three million euros on fiction... for pseudo-surveys, how to cut fruit and vegetables, but did not invest a chapel to provide research on how to use peat heating, how to use geothermal sources and water to provide Latvian heat. I believe that this corrupt political project cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U291	Dear colleagues, those who spoke out of the podium! If you have information about some corrupt transactions, please contact the law enforcement authorities, but not without proof to speak here at the Saeima sitting. Name to Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U292	Hello, honourable President. Presidium! Honourable Members! I'll ask for a little attention, I won't be a little late, because today I feel like I'm on a plane when there's some turbulence on the surface when the winds are around... because there are elections tomorrow. And why the plane, not the car? Because the plane doesn't belong to you, but there's an illusion in the car that you can avoid. In the plane you are under the pilot, and in this case the pilot is a coalition, and the coalition has already decided everything, so today, regardless of who will talk and how long, this little paper will be approved, just as for eight million it was approved to buy the land, just like with a little known company on the bottom... cartel builders are gathered together, prison is being built, just as we have already adopted the necessary law, but also about the same level of law. Now it's a bill. The normal order of things is not just in the country... I think the country - it's very, very high... but also any private person if he has a intention and need... and the need cannot be denied - probably necessary. And no one will deny that in these circumstances, the first challenge for us is to ensure our energy independence, the first challenge for us is to be sure that we have a future... We cannot deny that. But what if a person wants to create something, build something? First of all, he's carefully researched what he needs. And here we read that nobody in Paldic has ever really been, only in its forehead. Mr. Asheraden and I have just spoken about how we used to go... One Prime Minister's call, one Minister's call... all the Baltic States are, however, united and understand what everyone is doing. It's a technical question to understand. Let's assume it is necessary. Then there's a study from which I understand... There are about five percent of the economic or any other research that will come to light from those who will vote because no one has seen it, including the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. And here we read an annotation. It is said that the environment, it appears, is not affected, the development of areas is not affected, it is also not affected by climate neutrality, and perhaps one good news - the environmental impact has not been completely circumvented - will have to be assessed. This is likely to be accepted at the moment. I'm back to my client. If you're a client, there are two tasks. The first is to give the conditions to which you can come and build. Well, there are two sentences here, but finally in detail, I think it's not, because it's not clear here for a potential investor whether he's wearing a trench to Incukalns. None of this is clear here. But even if they accept it, there is a competition. It's not written here that there will be any competition. The normal course of things is when the state, as a client, announces a tender, announces to the interested... apply, and when they show up, for example, two or three -- then you've met them, and the first thing you find out if they have money, whether they can do it, where they get gas, how they bring it. But then answer... It's not here. Not the state is here. Some people have already set up something, one of the Americas has come, all have shook and said that everything will be, and now he says that he has no money... there are no conditions either. Really... What would happen now? He would look for an investor and just his business... because he has achieved that there is no need for environmental impacts, that there is no need for much more. It's a cool tool to sell. Then the money's going to split up, the American's going to disappear... If they find someone... and will be irreversible. Ladies and gentlemen, The elections are tomorrow, we will also return to this issue, well, let us go back. These two pages are the future of Latvia for energy? I'm sorry, that's not the case! I understand what the vote will be, and we cannot influence it because one has received one, the other has received the other. Good luck! But it will be a new day on Sunday and we are likely to sit at the table again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U293	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U294	Dear President, Only a few comments. I can say to Mr Butan that I will vote in favour because I support this proposal and hope that the Commission will adopt the necessary amendments. I also checked those state guarantees for Estonia. No, it's building Alexel's quay, which must be completed by October. And these are its guarantees. If they don't finish it, then there's a problem with the ship, so they don't have a guarantee of buying, they're guarantees that the state will help if there's a problem with the pipe, but well... I think the commission... What I want to say is three things... Oh, here, a few more said what would have been if we had a terminal built two or 10 years ago (as Mr Butane said). I will say this: if “Latvian Gas” had been privatised a month ago (As Germany did - four companies, maybe already the fifth had privatised... nationalised, forgivenessed, nationalised Russian-owned companies or those where Gazprom was the majority shareholder. The German Government has nationalised, Mr Butane.) ... If we were to nationalize “Latvia’s Gas” today, then we are at this moment (Interface.) Inčukalns would have 16 terawatt-hours - Latvia would own 10 pumped terawatt-hours, and six of us could still trade. ‘ Latvijas Gāze would have bought... we would nationalize it, but well... So it's said, the problem is, there's no money. All right, god with that money, maybe he'll get it. Everybody's been talking about what would have been a year ago. But what about two years? A very simple analysis is needed. I think the commission will look. And it's very simple here. I looked at what will be in two years' time, and I will say: Germany, France, the Netherlands are increasing their LNG reception capacity considerably, and today LNG terminals are being built everywhere in Europe, which will meet all the needs within a year and a half. The European Commission considers it necessary to buy gas at a uniform price. ( I don’t know if it’s going to work.) As a result, the political component of gas supply will disappear in a year to two and a half, the price of gas will fall and we will be close to the figures it was a year and a half ago. So such an analysis is needed - what will happen in two years' time, when the gas price has already returned when the whole of Europe is full of terminals and - as I said - when there will be a hundred million cheaper terminal in Paldiskis. But I say that at this first reading I will vote in favour. What I want to recommend to the Commission is my last wish not to say that Conservatives are involved in the financial sphere, and not to say what they are already saying that they want to return to their sponsor. In order not to do so, delete two points in the Commission: leave Article 4 of the environmental assessment, do not have to be deleted, and delete the status of a national object, it is not necessary, it is absolutely unnecessary. It can be built in private, fair competition, with full respect for environmental rules, and start building even immediately. So that's two things. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U295	The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U296	Hello, colleagues! Speaker of the Saeima! I admire the patience with which Mrs Meistere is still sitting in this Chamber. I really admire this man because she was the only one who allowed me to say that to the committee already: whether the Saeima, this Saeima, and the Members, have left just a little... something called the Member's dignity. In my opinion, this is the second event in which this respect is lost and, despite some in the hall, nothing will stop you from showing your face now, pre-election in the madness, how much you have interest and how much you have no interest in your constituents, whether it comes up every four years, or whether it is permanent. It's about this bill. It is strange to read that in all pre-election programmes it is written: we will fight for energy independence. By changing the gas supplier, what energy independence are you going to talk about? Do you think yourself? At the moment, it does not matter which side of the gas comes from, but we depend on how much this gas supplier is prepared to deliver or not to deliver and for what money. If this supplier still comes with a good offer, but there's something to buy with in the bonus, it reminds me of the Soviet times when, in order to get a tractor in the colonial, a shrug that no one needed was needed. Here are the same times of colhozos - in order to get something important to the country, we have to take a piece of shit, and in this case, this piece of shit comes to the gas with a “snake” coming along with the investor. Did this “smoke” go away? I don't think so. People who are currently lobbying the gas project with amazing patience have successfully installed Latvia on gas needles from Russia. We remember what the TEC is burning to produce electricity? Yeah, it's gas, although there could have been a slice - a local resource, it could have been a peat - a local resource. Unfortunately, at that point he was lobbying and said that, no, no, no, gas - it is forever, we do not need our energy independence, we are so powerful that we buy everything from abroad. And once again, the time has come when we have to make a distinction as to whether this energy independence really will be. It won't be because this measure reminds us of another gas needle again... That's going to put us back on the needle. That must be the sort of drug addict that the coalition is doing at the moment - that our country needs to be made dependent on something so that it can be kept at such a certain pressure all the time. Colleagues, however, I call on all of you (although a large part is no longer listening, because they already know what the decision will be) to think about local resources, about local producers and not to submit to the current "big of happiness" that will set us in the sun. I understand that colleagues already know what the vote will be, and I understand that today this will be the second law that is thrown into the mill and passed through. Once again, I pay tribute to Mrs Meistere for allowing me to say what people really think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U297	I closed the debate. For the Commission, please... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U298	On behalf of the Commission, I would just like to emphasise what was said during the Commission's meeting: this draft law does not in any way affect any State aid issues. I would like to inform the honourable Members that, just as the Ministry of Economic Affairs has drafted this bill and sent it, calling for it to be examined urgently, the Ministry of Economics has also sent the material to the members of the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, with which all members of the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission have been introduced - i.e. economic assessment, technical risk assessment and legal risk assessment. The material is on 20 pages, it has been done by an international auditor, and it is available to members of the commission. However, because of the limited availability of information, Members have to deal with it properly. I am now calling for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U299	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “On the LNG terminal” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 53, 30, abstaining - not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U300	According to what was decided by the Commission, I must call on the Saeima to support the draft law at second reading as well, without re-examination by the Commission (Minimum. (Laughter) , unless Members object. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U301	Does one of the Members have reservations? ( Milestones.) Mr. Don't die and the objections. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U302	In that case, the deadline for the submission of proposals - 15 minutes, consideration - is today's sitting of the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U303	Please turn on the microphone for Nemiro!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U304	I call for a two-week deadline for the submission of proposals, which is 13 October. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U305	And consideration of the Saeima sitting... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U306	20 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U307	Who has the proposal? Please turn on the microphone for the Member Krausland!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U308	I have a proposal: the deadline for submitting proposals is 1 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U309	And consideration of the Saeima sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U310	First meeting of November.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U311	Not in accordance with the rule of law. “ We can’t go to another Saeima! ” ; “Other Saeima!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U312	No, that's impossible. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a proposal to set a deadline for the submission of proposals - 13 October and for the examination of the parliamentary session - 20 October this year. We will vote on this proposal - the next one, 13 October and 20 October. Please call me! We will vote on the deadline for submitting proposals to the draft law on the Skulte liquefied natural gas terminal - October 13, this year, on the examination of the draft law at the sitting of the Saeima in the second, final reading - October 20, this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 32, against - 41, refraining from - 8. Consequently, this proposal has been rejected and the deadline for the submission of proposals is set at 15 minutes by 16:45 a.m. on 29 September this year, and consideration at the meeting of the Saeima on 29 September this year. Dear colleagues, it's time for a break. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name Andrejs Klementyevs to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U313	Not registered: Uldis Augulis... I don't see, Gundars Dauge, Artuss Kaimiņš, Ivans Klementjevs, Jānis Krišāns, Edgars Kucins... I don't see, Viesturs Liepkalns, Regina Lochmele... No, Inguna Rībena, Edvins Šnore, Jānis Urbanovičs, Viktors Valainis, Inese Voika and Jānis Vucāns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U314	Interruption until 5 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U315	Ladies and gentlemen, let us continue the sitting of the Saeima after a break. Changes to the agenda for the Bureau meeting were tabled. Members Krišjānis Feldmans, Evita Zālīte-Grosa, Ainars Bauskis, Jānis Butāns and Ieva Akuratere are asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Law on the renaming of Communist totalitarian regime and russification names”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( The box “Yes! ”) “Yes!” ) Please call us! We will vote for the draft law “Law on the renaming of Communist totalitarian regime and russification names” to be on the agenda of the sitting of the Saeima on 29 September this year! “ Where is he? I don’t see!” ) The amendments submitted. ( Interface: “No! ”) ) Colleagues, amendments to the electronic agenda submitted. And it was also shared in the Saeima sitting. ( Internouncing call.) Colleagues, once again... Again. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Law on the renaming of Communist totalitarian regime and russification names” to be on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law is on the agenda of the sitting. The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption is asking for the draft decision on the announcement of the emergency situation to be included on the agenda of the meeting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. And the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Supporting the Economic Effects of Sanctions and Anti-Improvement Measures Against Ukraine" to be examined at second reading before point 17 of the agenda. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. ( Pause) On the agenda - draft law “Law on the management of grants managed by the European Cybersecurity Competences Centre during the planning period 2021-2027”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Reinis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U316	Colleagues! We work with the draft law “Law on the management of grants managed by the European Cybersecurity Competences Centre during the planning period 2021-2027” (No. 1558/Lp13). At second reading, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has received 26 proposals and examined them. 1. - A editorial proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U317	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U318	2. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Pabrik. According to Article 1(5) of the draft law, the words ‘(cascade funding)’ shall be excluded. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U319	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U320	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is proposed to state Article 1(6) of the Act in the following wording: ‘Community of Cybersecurity Competences... - a set of entities, in which entities comply with Article 8 of Regulation 2021/887, registered in the Register of Community Members maintained by the National Coordination Centre in accordance with the procedure laid down by this Law’. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U321	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U322	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Article 3 of the draft law shall be supplemented with the words ‘and shall apply for the 2021-2027 programming period’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U323	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U324	5. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Pabrik. It is envisaged to exclude the words ‘at the request of the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence’ from the wording of the second paragraph of Article 7 of the draft law. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U325	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U326	6. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Pabrik. It is envisaged to replace the words ‘in the internal control system’ in the text of the second paragraph of Article 7 of the draft law with the words ‘in the management of gravel’. So it's editorial. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U327	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U328	7. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Pabrik. It is envisaged to replace the words ‘State Audit Office and competent institution of the European Union’ in the wording of point 3 of the first paragraph of Article 8 of the draft law with the words ‘competent national and European institution’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U329	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U330	8 / 8 - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Pabrik. The mechanism for managing grants to be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers shall be specified. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U331	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U332	9. - A editorial proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U333	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U334	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Pabrik. To be specified, the word ‘address’ is replaced by the term ‘legal address’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U335	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U336	11. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Pabrik. The text of the second paragraph of Article 11 shall be modified. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U337	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U338	12. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Pabrik. The text of the third paragraph of Article 11 shall be specified in editorial terms. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U339	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U340	13. - a editorial proposal by the Minister of Defence Pabrik. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U341	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U342	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Pabrik. It is envisaged to exclude the words ‘ (administrative act or administrative decision)’ from the text of the second paragraph of Article 12 of the draft law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U343	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U344	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Pabrik. The procedure for contesting and appealing against a decision on the registration, refusal or exclusion of a Community member from the register of Community members shall be specified. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U345	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U346	16. - a editorial proposal by the Minister of Defence Pabrik. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U347	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U348	17. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Pabrik. Article 18 ‘Rules for the exclusion of project promoters’ shall be clarified. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U349	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U350	18. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Pabrik. Article 19 shall be corrected. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U351	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U352	19. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Pabrik. It is envisaged to exclude the third paragraph of Article 19 of the draft law by changing the numbering of the following paragraphs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U353	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U354	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Pabrik. It is envisaged to exclude the word ‘management’ in the introductory part of the fourth paragraph of Article 19 and in the text of point 4 of the draft law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U355	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U356	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Pabrik. The fifth paragraph of Article 20 of the draft law shall be revised. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U357	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U358	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Pabrik. The text of Article 24 of the draft law shall be specified in a editorial manner. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U359	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U360	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Minister of Defence Pabrika...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U361	Proposal No 22...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U362	I'm sorry. 22. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Pabrik. The text of Article 24 of the draft law shall be specified in a editorial manner. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U363	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U364	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Pabrik. It is envisaged to exclude the second sentence of the text of Article 25 of the draft law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U365	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U366	24. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Pabrik. The text of the sixth paragraph of Article 26 of the draft law shall be specified in editorial terms. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U367	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U368	25. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Pabrik. The seventh paragraph of Article 26 of the draft law shall be revised.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U369	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U370	And finally 26. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Pabrik. The transitional provisions providing for the deadline for the entry into force of the law shall be specified. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U371	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U372	Thank you. Colleagues, I call for support for the draft law at second, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U373	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Law on the management of grants managed by the European Cybersecurity Competences Centre during the planning period 2021-2027” in the second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one to - 67, against and refrain from - 67. The law is passed. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Arms Movement Act’, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U374	Dear colleagues, Three proposals were received. 1. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Kristaps Eklone, in which... technical clarifications. The Commission... Distinguished from the original version of the law by the fact that... But he left the non-citizens here... Since they could have remained with these weapons permits, the commission did not agree with it, it created its own proposal. Consequently, proposal 1 was partly supported and included 3. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U375	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U376	2. - the proposal by Member Edvins Šnores, which provided that the arms permits issued to non-citizens of Latvia, the citizens of the Russian Federation and Belarus who have received permanent residence permits are revoked this year... not this year, but next year - 2023 - 1 June. However, the Commission agreed that the deadline would be 1 September 2023. Proposal 2 was therefore partly supported and included 3. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U377	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U378	And the last one is 3. - Commission proposal. We laid down this transitional provision, the deadline for the withdrawal of these weapons permits. That is, 1 September 2023. Other clarifications were also supported. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U379	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U380	All the proposals have been examined. I call for support to be given to the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U381	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final reading of the draft law on Arms Movement Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 58, for - 8, for - 1. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Real Estate State Cadastre”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U382	In the Legal Commission we looked at the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the State Cadastral of Real Estate” (No. 1622/Lp13). The draft law has been declared urgent. The aim of the draft law is to facilitate the construction processes - to simplify the construction processes of individual buildings (e.g. first group and second group subsidiary buildings), as well as not to receive in these processes the approval of the construction works of cadastral surveying of buildings. One proposal was received for the second reading. 1. - the proposal of the Ministry of Justice, which envisages supplementing the transitional provisions with point 48. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U383	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U384	There are no more proposals. In the Commission, the draft law was supported. I call on my colleagues to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U385	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Real Estate State Cadastre Law” in the second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 69, against and refrains. The law is passed. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Law on Financial Stability Fees’, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U386	Colleagues, see the bill “Amendments to the Law on Financial Stability Fees”. Three proposals were received by the Commission. 1. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. It changes the deadline for the toll payer to set up financial services available to customers, business income accounts. In particular, this deadline is set at 1 December 2022. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U387	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U388	Proposal No 2 This is about the same deadline - 1 December. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U389	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U390	3. - Commission proposal. The procedure for making a declaration for 2022 (as a result of this time-limit change) shall be adjusted. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U391	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U392	The Commission supported the draft law for the second, final, reading. I call on the Saeima to do this.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U393	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Financial Stability Fees, second, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 71, for - no, for - 1. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U394	Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” is related to the previous draft law – “Amendments to the Law on Financial Stability Fees”. No proposals were received for the second reading. The draft law was approved by the Commission for adoption at second, final, reading. I call on the Saeima to support the bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U395	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” in the second, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 69, against and refrains. The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, amendments have been tabled to the agenda of the sitting. The Budget and Finance (tax) Commission is asking to include the draft law “Amendments to the law on exceptional increases in energy prices” in the first reading section of the agenda (before paragraph 17 – the draft law “Amendment to the law of the Bank of Latvia”). Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the law on support for the management of sanctions and economic consequences caused by Russian military aggression against Ukraine”. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission on Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Raivis Dzintars.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U396	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The Commission has received one proposal of a technical nature from the Minister of Finance, Mr Reira, and has unanimously supported it.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U397	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U398	Please support the draft law at second, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U399	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law "Amendments to the law on support for the economic consequences of the sanctions and countermeasures imposed by the Russian military aggression against Ukraine" in the second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 67, for - no, for - 1. The law is passed. Draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on the Exceptional Price Reduction Measures’ (No. 1653/Lp13), first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Raivis Dzintars.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U400	In the meeting of 27 September this year, the Cabinet of Ministers approved four new support measures for the compensation of the rapid increase of energy prices for households and all legal users. So what are the four aid measures imposed by these amendments to the law? The first support option for households provides for differentiated support for district heating: the central heating tariff of between EUR 68 and 150 per megawatt-hour will compensate the State for 50 per cent, while the national contributions of more than EUR 150 per megawatt-hour will compensate the State for 90 per cent. The second support measure for households will be the establishment of a single price threshold for natural gas. For households, the market price for natural gas is set at an identical price of EUR 108,7 per megawatt-hour. The difference between the market price and EUR 108,7 per megawatt-hour will be covered by public compensation. The third aid measure will be to compensate households for the increase in the price of electricity: all households will be subject to a fixed fee of EUR 160 per megawatt-hour each month, and the State will compensate for the remaining difference up to the market price. On the other hand, the household will pay for electricity consumption above 100 kilowatt-hours according to the price set in the electricity sales contract. If the household user’s electricity consumption exceeds 500 kilowatt-hours per month, then in addition the household user will also receive support due to the use of electricity for heating. The fourth aid measure will apply to all legal users, including entrepreneurs, state and local authorities, educational institutions, hospitals and churches. For all legal users, the State will compensate for an increase in electricity costs of 50 per cent above the electricity price - 160 euros per megawatt-hour. Support, if we accept these amendments, will apply from 1 October 2022 to 30 April 2023 and to legal entities until 31 March and will be automatically applied in invoices. The Commission has unanimously supported these draft laws at first reading. Please also vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U401	The urgency...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U402	Yes, I am sorry, and the Commission calls for urgent action.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U403	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Exceptional Increase in Energy Prices” (No. 1653/Lp13) recognition as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 69, against and refrains. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U404	Thank you. I call for support to be given to the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U405	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Ramona Petraviča.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U406	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Already in several sittings of the Saeima, I have made proposals and tried to prove the necessity and effectiveness of setting energy price caps in support of Latvian citizens and entrepreneurs. All these proposals were rejected, but today the Ministry of Economics has submitted... Even though this is an initiative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, I would like to say that it is not important who submits and who political power moves and adopts the final bill, but it is important that it is adopted quickly and in the interest of the people, even though it is now overdue. Both households and businesses have been receiving astronomical bills for a long time. It is necessary to provide targeted and effective support to Latvian residents and entrepreneurs, without sorting them, so that they do not have to live in underheated or illuminated apartments, so that seniors do not have to give up medicines or purchase nutritious food, so that entrepreneurs do not lose their competitiveness among neighbouring countries, lay off workers, close down companies and create a new wave of immigration. It is absolutely unacceptable that the price of electricity on the stock exchange will vary by more than 1000 percent per day and that final consumers will pay almost 10 times the price for their own money. Although the amendments of the Cabinet of Ministers partially resolve this, the current Law on measures for exceptional increases in energy prices and its amendments are incomplete, so I believe that it is vital to ensure... Firstly, to set a fixed charge per kilowatt of electricity, to ensure that the price indicated for end-users of the kilowatt produced in Latvia does not exceed 13 cent, and it is necessary to set a reduced VAT rate of five per cent for electricity, natural gas and fuel. And also 100 kilowatts for households are certainly not enough, because the rest will have to be paid at full price. Secondly, reducing the economic burden of energy price increases for households, economic operators, public authorities and local authorities by applying a full reduction in the charge of electricity system services and by applying a full reduction in the charge of the mandatory procurement and capacity component. Amendments to the Law on measures to reduce extraordinary increases in energy resource prices are a step in the right direction, however, when Latvenergo concludes its half-year with record profits, support mechanisms for ensuring the economic and social well-being of society should be increased. Price caps and measures to stabilise prices are necessary but insufficient. I call for support for the draft law on amendments to the law on exceptional increases in energy prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U407	I closed the debate. Is something else to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U408	Thank you to Mrs Petraviča for her support. I would just remind you once again that all the members of the Commission who took part in the sitting supported the draft law. I call for support to be given to the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U409	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Exceptional Increase in Energy Prices” (No. 1653/Lp13) at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 72, for - no, for - 1. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U410	The deadline for tabling proposals - five minutes, and consideration - at today's sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U411	Consequently, the deadline for the consideration of the proposals - 29 September this year at 17.35, - at the sitting of the Saeima on 29 September this year. Draft law “Amendment to the Law of the Bank of Latvia”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Rihards Kozlovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U412	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, On 20 September this year, the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission reviewed the draft law “Amendment to the Law of the Bank of Latvia” at third reading. No proposals were received. I ask the Saeima to support the draft law in the third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U413	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law of the Bank of Latvia” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Credit Register Act’, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhena‐Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U414	Dear Chairman and colleagues of the Saeima. The Budget and Finance (tax) Commission has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Credit Register” (No. 1597/Lp13). The aim of the draft law is to reduce the administrative burden on taxpayers and to provide the State Revenue Service with information for analysis of data, assessment and performance of tax administration activities and verification of tax administration, as well as verification of declarations of state officials for identification of risk information. The total amount of information to be received in the Credit Register will be analogous to the amount already currently the State Revenue Service is entitled to receive from the Credit Register for tax audit or analysis of the need for audit on the basis of an individual request. The draft law was examined and approved by the Legislative Commission at the Saeima sitting. I also call on you to support the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U415	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading draft law on Amendments to the Credit Register Act! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 50, against and refrains - not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U416	October 13, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U417	The deadline for proposals is 13 October this year. Draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Personal Income Tax”, second reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Reinis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U418	Colleagues, we work with the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Personal Income Tax” (No. 1261/Lp13). We have received 23 proposals for the second reading. 1. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Provision shall be made for supplementing point 20.5 of the third paragraph of Article 8, after the number ‘35.5’ with the number ‘35.6’. Supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U419	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U420	2. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. It is envisaged to supplement the first paragraph of Article 9. Let's see... income from releasing a natural person from debt... So it's in order. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U421	Members want to vote. Are Members willing to vote? ( Internouncing call.) Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - the proposal submitted by the Minister of Justice, Bordan! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 47, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, There's no quorum. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - the proposal submitted by the Minister of Justice, Bordan! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 51, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The proposal is supported. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U422	3. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. The first paragraph of Article 9 shall be supplemented by paragraph 35.6. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U423	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U424	4. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. The first paragraph of Article 9 shall be supplemented by paragraph 35.7. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U425	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U426	5. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Provides for the addition of the first paragraph of Article 9 and is therefore linked to... compensation for “personalised publications related to the ministry of a religious organization”. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U427	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U428	6. - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Zakaistov. It provides for the addition of a new article supported at first reading and the exclusion of several parts relating to the specific rules for determining the business income of paying agents keeping accounts in a double entry system. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U429	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U430	7. - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Zakaistov. It provides for the exclusion of the words and the number ‘in accordance with the procedure for determining taxable income laid down in paragraph 6.1 of this Article’ in the eighth paragraph of Article 11. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U431	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U432	8 / 8 - Member Znotiņš's proposal. The specific terms and conditions of an investment account and the account holder shall provide the investment service provider with information on the allocation of the status of the investment account to the account and its linked accounts. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U433	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U434	Let me tell you, colleagues, in essence about 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14. - his proposal. All these proposals are therefore interrelated and, in principle, make it easier for individual investors using a single investment account. So far, there have been enough inaccuracy, which makes this investment difficult, but as we can see, it is becoming increasingly popular in society. People invest in shares, and therefore these bureaucratic obstacles, as well as sometimes situations where banks, for example, do not notify the State Revenue Service or the State Revenue Service does not notify the banks, do not exchange this information... So it is necessary to clarify these things to make it all... this bureaucracy would be removed and these investments would be as simple as possible for individual investors. In principle, all these proposals - 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 - also in different versions. - it is dealt with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U435	I closed the debate. Members 8. - the proposal supported by the Commission shall be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U436	9. - also the proposal from Member Znotiņš. In this case, the Account Register Act provides information on the open investment account in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Account Register Act. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U437	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U438	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - also the proposal from Member Znotiņš. It is planned to supplement Article 11.13 with the fifteenth part and in essence talks about those investment accounts that are not subject to the Law on the Register of Accounts, then these institutions must provide information on the open investment account in accordance with the procedure established by the State Revenue Service not later than the end of the tax year. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U439	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U440	11. - also the proposal from Member Znotiņš. In the case of an investment service provider that has an investment account opened but is not a Latvian investment service provider or a branch of an investment service provider established abroad in Latvia, the taxpayer shall inform the State Revenue Service of the granting of the status of an investment account to such accounts not later than by the end of the tax year. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U441	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U442	12. - also the proposal from Member Znotiņš. It is argued that, on the basis of the investment account held by the investment service providers and the taxpayer in question, such inaccuracy cannot be regarded as a basis for the non-recognition of an account as an investment account and, in principle, specifies how the State Revenue Service should act in such cases. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U443	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U444	13. - also the proposal from Member Znotiņš. Let's see... talks about the State Revenue Service and its responsibility. If the State Revenue Service has not been informed in due time of any investment account of the taxpayer due to the fault of the investment service provider, it cannot be considered as a basis for non-recognition of the account as an investment account. So make it clear. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U445	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U446	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - also the proposal from Member Znotiņš. It is planned to supplement Article 11.13 with the nineteenth part and provides that the State Revenue Service provides taxpayers with an opportunity to obtain information on the request about all taxpayer's revenue accounts, about which the State Revenue Service has been informed. The Commission was also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U447	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U448	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from Member Reinis Znotiņš and Member Uldas Budrikis. Provides for the application of a tax rate to investment services providers supervised by the Financial and Capital Markets Commission... fixed at three per cent. And this would be, let us say, an equalisation of tax legislation, in a regional context, which has so far been the least advantageous, much less advantageous than in Estonia, where the tax system provides for this regulation, and also in Lithuania. This regulation improves our competitiveness from a regional point of view. Partially supported and included 16. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U449	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U450	16. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. It's like that. Here, instead of setting a rate of three per cent, five per cent, slightly clarify the wording, but the substance remains the same. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U451	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U452	17. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. The day on which the court has taken a decision on termination of the insolvency proceedings of a natural person shall be considered as the day of income from the income derived from the disposal of a capital asset in the insolvency proceedings of a natural person. This proposal is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U453	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U454	18. - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Zakaistov. The second sentence of the ninth paragraph of Article 19 shall be excluded. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U455	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U456	19. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. The time of entry into force of the law shall be specified. Partially supported and included 21. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U457	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U458	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Zakaistov. Same for the previous one. Also partially supported and included 21. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U459	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U460	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. The date of entry into force of the amendments to the draft law shall be specified. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U461	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U462	22. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. It is envisaged to exclude from the draft law an indication of the predetermined entry into force of the law, which is no longer relevant. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U463	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U464	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The parliamentary secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Zakaistov, is identical. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U465	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U466	Thank you, colleagues. I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U467	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Personal Income Tax” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 58, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U468	The deadline for submitting proposals is one week, i.e. until 6 October 2022.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U469	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 6 October this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Melioration”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Sandis Riekstins.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U470	Hello, colleagues! The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy reviewed the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Meliorisation” supported by the Cabinet of Ministers (No. 1549/Lp13) and decided to support this draft law and to direct it to the first reading of the Saeima. The draft law has been drafted by the Ministry of Agriculture, and its purpose is to clarify the terms of the Melioration Act... define the concept of ‘melioration’ and clarify the rights and obligations of the municipality in the field of melioration. The draft law specifies the scope of personal data to be included in the melorisation cadastre in order to ensure the protection of personal data in the same information system. The Commission has supported the draft law and decided to make the draft law urgent. I call for the draft law to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U471	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Melito” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 55, for - 1, for - 9. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U472	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U473	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Meliorisation”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 65, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U474	The deadline for submitting proposals - 13 October this year, and consideration - at the sitting of the Saeima on 20 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U475	Thank you. Deadline for the proposals - 13 October this year, consideration by the Saeima - 20 October this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Prohibition of Unfair Commercial Practices”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy – Member Jānis Vitenbergs.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U476	The draft law was designed to take over the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council and intends to clarify and supplement the law by introducing new rules on the imposition of fines on commercial practitioners, including cases of cross-border infringements, as well as consumer legal protection of commercial practices on the Internet, the provision of information on key parameters for the ranking of goods, and the provision of misleading commercial practices for the publication of false feedback and influence. So this is an important bill. Please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U477	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Prohibition of Unfair Commercial Practices at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one to - 67, against and refrain from - 67. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U478	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 27 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U479	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 27 October this year. Draft law “Amendments to the law “Voluntary... “” — Dep. A. Scande's intermediate call. Depp. J. Witenberg: “I will go.” (Laughter) Thank you to the rapporteur. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Voluntary Work” (No. 1538/Lp13) submitted by Members Mārtiņš Šteins, Evita Zālīte–Grosa, Anda Čakša, Evija Papule, Inga Goldberga, Vita Anda Steel and Inese Voika, and the alternative draft law presented by the Social and Labour Affairs Commission “Amendments to Voluntary Labour Law” (No. 1632/Lp13). On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, Member Andris Skride will report on both draft laws as a whole, and the debate will also be on both draft laws as a whole. Let us vote first on the draft law tabled by Members, then on the alternative law tabled by the Commission. Name of the Chair of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs Andris Skrides.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U480	Thank you. Hello, honourable Mrs. Mourniece! Colleagues! So I'll tell you the substance of the bill. Its aim is to promote access to voluntary work for the public, to keep records of voluntary work and to create more flexible conditions for employers in the implementation of voluntary work. The aim is also to promote the prestige of volunteering as a first work experience for young people by improving the implementation system for volunteering. At present, there is no designated competent authority responsible for the implementation of volunteering, which creates fragmentation of volunteering and promotes different interpretations and application of the rules. When introducing a new article, the Ministry of Welfare establishes the competence of state institutions in the field of volunteering, i.e., the Ministry of Welfare ensures the development of voluntary work policy in cooperation with ministries of sectors, state administration institutions and non-governmental organisations, while the Society Integration Fund ensures coordinated implementation of volunteering activities, provides informational and advisory support within its remit. Similarly, the existing system does not encourage the participation of minors in voluntary work, the current regulatory framework is too declaratory, and it is therefore necessary to create a system to facilitate the participation of people in voluntary work and the recognition of acquired knowledge, skills and skills in the labour market. The number of volunteers is higher in the 18-30 age group, and young people are likely to become more involved in the voluntary movement, but there are also significant numbers of volunteers in the senior group. Volunteers perform a wide range of tasks, ranging from project managers, event managers, interpreters to drivers. Amendments to the law will have a positive impact on public participation rates and will increase the reflection of volunteering on economic indicators. A draft law drawn up by a group of Members was presented to the Commission, which was not supported by the Commission, but supplemented and developed an alternative law for the Commission. Let us first vote in favour of the draft law tabled by the Group of Members, which has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U481	Please call me! Vote on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Voluntary Work” presented by Mārtiņš Šteina, Evita Zaļītes–Gross, Anda Čakša, Evija Papules, Inga Goldberga, Vitas Anda Steela and Inese Voika (No. 1538/Lp13) at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft law has been rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U482	The Commission asks for support for the alternative draft law on voluntary work (No. 1632/Lp13).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U483	Please call me! We will vote on the alternative draft law on voluntary work submitted by the Social and Labour Commission (No. 1632/Lp13)! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U484	October 14, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U485	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 14 October this year. Draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on National Security’ (No. 1536/Lp13), second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Ainars Bauskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U486	Dear President, Dear colleagues, In its meeting of 20 September, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption examined draft law “Amendments to the Law on National Security” (No. 1536/Lp13) at second reading. Unfortunately, no proposal has been received. Please approve this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U487	Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on National Security" (No. 1536/Lp13) at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one to - 67, against and refrain from - 67. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U488	In the Commission, we set a deadline: one week, that is, by 6 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U489	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 6 October this year. Draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on National Security’ (No. 1590/Lp13), first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U490	Dear colleagues, The draft law provides for the implementation of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 November 2018 on the establishment, operation and use of the Schengen Information System (SIS) in police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters... The essence of the draft law is to supplement the law with a category of persons in respect of which the Minister of the Interior can decide on a ban on exit from the country - these will be refugees; the state applying the Schengen provisions on the free movement of persons, citizens; persons who have been issued a residence permit in the Republic of Latvia; as well as nationals of another country. It will be possible to determine the ban on exit not only as before - if the national security authority has provided information that the person outside the Republic of Latvia intends to engage in armed conflict, terrorist activities or other activities, as a result of which there is sufficient reason to believe that the person will, upon his return to the Republic of Latvia, threaten its national security - but also if the national security authority has provided information that there is a specific and obvious risk to the person due to his vulnerability, without being aware of being involved in activities threatening national security. In the Commission, the draft law was supported. On behalf of the Commission, I ask the Saeima to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U491	Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on National Security" (No. 1590/Lp13) at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U492	The deadline for submitting proposals is 6 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U493	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 6 October this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Defence and Security Procurement”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Janina Kursīte.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U494	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined draft law “Amendments to the Law on Procurement in the Field of Defence and Security” (No. 1548/Lp13) at second reading. Unfortunately, no proposals were received. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at second reading. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U495	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Procurement in the Defence and Security Sector” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U496	October 4, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U497	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 4 October this year. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Expropriation of Public Property”, second reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission – Member Inga Goldberga.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U498	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! The Commission of State Administration and Local Government has examined and supported the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Expropriation of Public Person’s Property”. I would remind you that the draft law provides that the provisions of the Law on the Expropriation of Public Property shall not apply if the state property used for operational work is disposed of and the belonging to which is being concealed. No proposals have been received for the second reading. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U499	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Expropriation of Public Property” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U500	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 4 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U501	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 4 October this year. Draft law “Law on the light regime for the construction of wind power plants for energy security and independence”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Gatis Zamurs.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U502	Hello, Speaker of the Saeima! Hello, colleagues! Let's work with bill No. 1481/Lp13 - “Law on Facilitated Procedure for the Construction of Wind Power Plants for Energy Security and Independence”. The draft law has been examined by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy for its final reading. The aim of the law, as you probably know, is to promote energy security and independence, and the law is intended to facilitate and accelerate the procedure for building energy supply. Thank you to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy for the long hours, all those involved in this process - this draft law. The draft law has undergone a number of changes, and many of the proposals I will be talking about have not been supported or have been partially supported because they have been submitted in one of the previous iterations. Thus, 103 proposals have been received for final reading. Let us try to examine them dynamically. 1. - the proposal from the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Artis Tomas Plšs. Replace the title of the bill with the words ‘wind power plant’. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U503	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U504	2. - Member Juris Pouce's proposal. Replace the words ‘wind power plants’ by ‘energy production construction’ in the bill title. Partially supported, included 4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U505	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U506	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is envisaged to give the title of the draft law in the following wording: ‘The law on procedures for the construction of light wind power plants necessary for the promotion of energy security and independence’. Partially supported, included 4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U507	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U508	4. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The title of the draft law is as follows: ‘Law on procedures for the construction of light energy projects necessary for the promotion of energy security and independence’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U509	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U510	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is envisaged to supplement the scope of the terms contained in Article 1 of the draft law with the words “Territorial Development Planning Law”... Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U511	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U512	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partially supported, included 7. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U513	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U514	7. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The purpose of the law referred to in Article 2 of the draft law shall be expressed as follows: “The purpose of the law is to promote the production of renewable energy, to promote the energy security and independence of the Republic of Latvia, as well as to reduce the processes of climate and environmental adverse change.” Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U515	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U516	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is envisaged to replace the scope of the law described in Article 3 of the draft law with alternative word connections. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U517	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U518	9. - the proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Kaspars Gerhard. Clarifying the scope of the law. Partially supported, included 13. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U519	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U520	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal from the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Artis Tomas Plšs. Partially supported, included 13. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U521	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U522	11. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Andre Chuda. Partially supported, included 13. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U523	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U524	12. - Member Juris Pouce's proposal. Also partially supported, included 13. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U525	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U526	13. - a proposal from the committee responsible. By creating a unified description of the scope of the law and establishing that... Law provides for easier arrangements for wind power plants with at least 50 megawatts for the construction of capacity, for the construction of solar panels - with at least 10 megawatts for the construction necessary for the installation or replacement of equipment, as well as for the construction of infrastructure in the internal waters of Latvia. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U527	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U528	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The scope of Article 4 of the draft law is supplemented. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U529	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U530	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A technical proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported and included 28. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U531	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U532	16. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Technical. The adjustment of the deadline of Article 5. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U533	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U534	17. - A technical proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics, Andres Chuda. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U535	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U536	18. - the technical proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Kaspars Gerhard. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U537	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U538	19. - A technical proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported and included 28. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U539	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U540	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A technical proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics, Andres Chuda. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U541	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U542	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the technical proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Kaspars Gerhard. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U543	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U544	22. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported and included 28. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U545	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U546	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Mr Kirštein's proposal. Provision shall be made for territorial intervals. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U547	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U548	Dear President, Honourable Members! Again extremely lax and light - not respecting the environmental conditions, nor the recommendations of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development developed at the time. So my proposal is to set a distance depending on the height of the wind power plant. It's in many countries, it's not my invention. We can see recommendations from the British and other countries, but my proposal is as follows: small, up to 50 metres, at a distance of 1000 metres; up to 100 metres, at a distance of 1500 metres; up to 150 metres, at a distance of 2000 metres; and those which are so-called... what we're proud of, the world's biggest, 300 meters... So you measure from the ground to the highest point of the spade, it's a third kilometre, so three kilometres away. My proposal is to leave some 800 metres. Imagine three kilometres high towers - I think it's a big irresponsible, and I'll tell you quickly why. At a time, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development and therefore construction... Who's there... Environmental Assessment Bureau... recommendations were made during construction, which were not taken into account by the commission, and these impacts are: site preparation; transportation of construction materials, storage of structures; water supply and waste water disposal; emissions during construction - concrete, steel, various waste, rare metals; waste disposal and management; traffic disruption. Imagine coming through a village... 800 meters away huge trailers that pull constructions, different machines... assembly sites, establishment, maintenance of temporary structures, cleaning of territory after construction works, completion of natural values of adjacent areas. During operation noise and vibration effects on the landscape, the effects of flashing... Reflection has not been studied, but a blink-like effect on habitats, the diversity of nature... cultural heritage. There can be a cultural or architectural monument next to... or church. 300 meters high tower... electromagnetic radiation and so on. And the last one. Safety - flight safety. Rotor blades ice - ice pieces fly up to 500 meters (it has been studied) from these three hundred meters high. I was told here that no ice is happening in modern power plants. That's total stupidity. Remember winter in Texas, where all towers were stopped from a safety point of view, they could not be produced, because the wind in the storms was so great that it was life-threatening. These are sensitive objects, dangerous to the environment. And I will give you an interesting example. In Poland, so far... from 2016 there are provisions allowing the construction of wind turbines only at a distance from buildings greater than ten times the height of wind turbines. So, if it's 300 meters... Three kilometres. Go on. Distances of the European Commission’s Reconstruction Fund... law... It has turned out that the Poles are not being given money if they do not change and reduce these distances, and they were forced to make concessions to the European Commission - to cut down in order to be able to build their settlements. I think it is a lewdness in any case. I am not saying that it is necessary to make such distances compulsory, but I am sorry that the Commission has not followed these principles - different distances, taking account of different heights. Consequently, I cannot support this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U549	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be explained on behalf of the Commission about proposal 23?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U550	There is nothing to add on behalf of the Commission, but that the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U551	Please call me! We will vote in favour 23. - Mr Kirstein's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 7, against - 43, refraining from - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U552	So let's keep going. 24. - Mr Valaina's proposal. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U553	Members do not object (Interview: Vote!) )... Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 24. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U554	25. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Andre Chuda. The Commission was not supported. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ; methacrylics.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U555	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 25. - The proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! ( Milestones.) For - no, for - 40, for - 8. Colleagues... Please call me! We will vote in favour of 25. - The proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - not, against - 43, refrain - 8. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U556	26. - the proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Kaspars Gerhard. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U557	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U558	27. - the proposal from the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Artis Tomas Plšs. Partially supported, included 28. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U559	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U560	28. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Debits areas outside which an initial assessment of wind power plants is required. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U561	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U562	29. - A technical proposal from the Legal Bureau. Incorporated 28. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U563	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U564	30. - A technical proposal from the Legal Bureau. Incorporated in 34 and 35. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U565	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U566	31. - the proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Kaspars Gerhard. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U567	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U568	32. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Andre Chuda. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U569	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U570	33. - the proposal from the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Artis Tomas Plšs. Partially supported, included 34. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U571	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U572	34. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Explain the performance of the initial assessment of the construction. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U573	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U574	35. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Complements the draft law with a new - 7. - the article ‘Assessment of the environmental impact of the construction of wind power stations and the time limits for the process’. The Commission is, of course, in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U575	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U576	36. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The term change. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U577	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U578	37. - A technical proposal from the Legal Bureau. The term change. Partially supported, included 39. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U579	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U580	38. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Andre Chuda. Partially supported, included 39. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U581	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U582	39. - a proposal from the committee responsible. A description of the acceptance of the operation. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U583	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U584	40. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Complements to the draft law with Article 9 - the conditions for the construction of wind power plants on forest land. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U585	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U586	41. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Incorporated 55. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U587	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U588	42. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by 55. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U589	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U590	43. - also a proposal from the Legal Office. Supported, included...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U591	43. is a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Partially supported...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U592	Partially supported, included 55. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U593	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U594	So, now there's forty... Who?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U595	Four.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U596	Now 44, what is the Pleasure proposal? ( Interface: “No, Chow. ”) ) 44. - So, too, the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Andre Chuda. Partially supported, included 55. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U597	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U598	45. - the proposal of the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pleis. Name change. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U599	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U600	46. - the proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Gerhard. Also technical - word change. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U601	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U602	47. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Andre Chuda. Partially supported, included 55. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U603	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U604	48. - the proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Kaspars Gerhard. Partially supported, included 55. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U605	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U606	49. - the proposal from the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Artis Tomas Plšs. Partially supported, included 55. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U607	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U608	50. - the proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Kaspars Gerhard. Article 8 of the draft law is added. Commission partially supported and included 55. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U609	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U610	51. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Andre Chuda. Same as 50. - Gerhard's proposal. Partly supported and included 55. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U611	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U612	52. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Andre Chuda. In Article 8, the second paragraph is added. Partly supported and included 55. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U613	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U614	53. - the proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Kaspars Gerhard. The second paragraph of Article 8 of the draft law is supplemented. Partially supported, included 55. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U615	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U616	54. - A technical proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partially supported, included 55. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U617	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U618	55. - a proposal from the committee responsible. An article determining the process for determining the objects of national interest shall be drawn up. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U619	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U620	56. - the proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Kaspars Gerhard. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U621	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U622	57. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Andre Chuda. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U623	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U624	58. - the proposal from the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Artis Tomas Plšs. Partly supported, included 75. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U625	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U626	59. - Member Juris Pouce's proposal. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U627	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U628	60. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported, included 75. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U629	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U630	61. - Member Juris Pouce's technical proposal. Partly supported, included 75. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U631	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U632	62. - the proposal from the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Artis Tomas Plšs. It is stipulated that the Ministry is entitled to claim financial security compensation. Partly supported, included 63. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U633	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U634	63. - a proposal made by the commission responsible. Article 11 establishing financial security shall be established. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U635	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U636	64. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supplements Article 10 of the draft law on the competence of the Cabinet of Ministers. Partly supported, included 75. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U637	This is supported if?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U638	Supported. Yes, I'm sorry, supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U639	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U640	65. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported and included 75. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U641	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U642	66. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported and included 75. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U643	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U644	67. - the proposal from the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Artis Tomas Plšs. Change the layout of the title and parts of Article 10 of the draft law. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U645	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U646	68. - the proposal from the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Artis Tomas Plšs. Technical, partially supported and included 75. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U647	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U648	69. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Andre Chuda. Technical, partially supported and included 75. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U649	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U650	70. - the proposal from the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Artis Tomas Plšs. Partly supported, included 75. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U651	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U652	71. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U653	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U654	72. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. There is no support in the Commission. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U655	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 72. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! 15, 51, abstain - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U656	73. - the proposal from the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Artis Tomas Plšs. Partly supported and included 75. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U657	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U658	74. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported and included 75. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U659	That's... Looks like a supported proposal. Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U660	75. - a proposal from the Commission, where all of the above are combined. The competence of the Cabinet of Ministers shall be determined. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U661	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U662	76. - Member Juris Pouce's proposal. Change the title of the fourth part of the draft law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U663	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U664	77. - Member Juris Pouce's proposal. Partly supported and included 83. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U665	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U666	78. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Andre Chuda. Changes the maximum design duration of the building permit. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U667	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U668	79. - the proposal from the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Artis Tomas Plšs. Changes the maximum period of design included in the building permit from one to 18 months. Supported by 83. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U669	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U670	80. - the proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Kaspars Gerhard. It is stated that the maximum time limit for compliance with design conditions does not include the time when the construction permit has been contested or appealed. It is partly supported, included 83. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U671	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U672	81. - the proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Kaspars Gerhard. Article 11 shall be supplemented by a new paragraph. Partially supported, including 55. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U673	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U674	82. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Andre Chuda. Similar to the previous proposal. Partially supported, included 55. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U675	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U676	83. - Commission proposal. This explains the process of initiating construction. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U677	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U678	84. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported, included in 96. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U679	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U680	85. - Mr Kirštein's proposal. The harmonisation of ownership. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U681	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U682	Dear President, Honourable Members! Proposal 85 provides for the issuance of a building permit with the permission of the landowner or, where the laws and regulations so provide, for the land owner to be informed. So his permission is not necessary in some cases - he is informed. On his private land, you can build a warehouse of building materials, build the access routes, leave the waste there and so forth... and then build, say, 800 meters from the windows three miles [3 km] high, and he doesn't have to ask for anything. It would be very beautiful if Latvian entrepreneurs had raised these parks... I was looking... It's very interesting. They build the Swedish park in Zemgale, the Estonians are the owners, they are building the Swedish park in Zemgale, the Lithuanians are standing in line... reconciliation... with its draft. Interesting, why don't they build up in their land? They're in trouble with territories, huh? So they will raise these parks to the land of Latvian citizens without permission, the profits will be taken away, leaving noise, flashing, warehouses of construction materials, unsubstantiated rainwater discharge, and so on. It could already be supported, of course, because we are already patriots, and every Latvian, let us say, is obliged from birth to make a happy foreign national, right? And so we are ready to allow these parks to be built without permission from the landowner, unless there is one disaster. Those who have studied physics know that wind energy is dispersed energy can not blow for months... the meaning of it is not great. It's a private business, the basic energy is not. Very well - if you build your own park, then export, get money, but don't tell you that these are national interests! And in the end, instead of building one TEC (with 1000 megawatts), which is driven by peat and chips, we are making such nightmareous projects, extortioning the interests of Latvian citizens. So that I call for this proposal to be supported, but if not, then to reject the draft law as a whole.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U683	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U684	On behalf of the Commission, I would just remind you that the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U685	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 85. - Mr Kirstein's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -6, for -57, for -1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U686	86. - The proposal from the Member Krauze. Partially supported, included 96. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U687	The Commissioner's Poke's proposal! 86. - The motion of the Member Poece. Partly supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U688	Okay.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U689	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U690	87. - the proposal from the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Artis Tomas Plšs. Partly supported and included 96. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U691	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U692	88. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Andre Chuda. Partially supported, included 96. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U693	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U694	89. - the proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Kaspars Gerhard. Partially supported, included 96. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U695	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U696	90. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Andre Chuda. Supported, included in 96. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U697	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U698	91. - the proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Kaspars Gerhard. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U699	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U700	92. - Mr Valaina's proposal. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U701	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U702	93. - Mr Valaina's proposal. It is proposed that a construction permit is issued if the Cabinet of Ministers determines “the status of an object of national interest for the intended operation only after prioritising the projects of wind farms”. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U703	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U704	94. - Member Juris Pouce's proposal. Partially supported, included 96. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U705	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U706	95. - Member Juris Pouce's proposal. Supported, included in 96. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U707	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U708	96. - Commission proposal. Article 14 of the draft law provides for the issuing of a building permit and the contesting or appealing of it. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U709	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U710	97. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Technical. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U711	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U712	98. - the proposal from the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Artis Tomas Plšs. Partially supported, included 99. - in the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U713	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U714	99. - Commission proposal. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U715	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U716	100. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Change of technical terms in the transitional provisions. Partly supported, included 102. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U717	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U718	101. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Technical. Partly supported, included 102. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U719	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U720	102. - Commission proposal. This constitutes transitional provisions in the draft law. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U721	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U722	103. - Mr Valaina's proposal. The law shall provide for its entry into force on 31 December 2024. Not supported by the wording that the law enters into force on the day following its publication.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U723	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U724	Members have not supported it.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U725	Don't mind.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U726	So we have examined all the proposals in the draft law “Law on the light regime for the construction of wind power plants for the promotion of energy security and independence”, which will later be called “Law on the light regime for the construction of power plants for the promotion of energy security and independence”. I call for this to be supported at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U727	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Law on the light regime for the construction of wind power plants for the promotion of energy security and independence” at second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 65, for - 3, for - 1. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, it's time for a break. Please call me! Please register the Members! The name is Krišjānis Feldman for the announcement.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U728	I informed you that in five minutes, a meeting of the Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Development Policy will start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U729	Name Andrejs Klementyevs to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U730	Good evening! No 25 members registered: Uldis Augulis, Gundars Dauge, Nikolai Kabanovs, Artuss Kaimiņš, Ivans Klementjevs, Ieva Krapāne... Yes, thank you, I can see (Interface.) ... Wait, Armands Krauze... no, Jānis Krišāns, Edgars Kucins, Māris Kučinskis, Viesturs Liepkalns, Regina Ločmele, Eva Mārtuza... I see, thank you, Eva... Maris Mozhville, Ralph Nemir, Ramona Petraviča... I see, Eric Pucen... I saw, yeah, thank you... Ivan Ribakov, Inguna Ribena, Edwin Snore... No, John Tutin... I see, thank you... Jānis Urbanovičs, Viktors Valainis, Inese Voika and Jānis Vucāns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U731	Dear colleagues, please. Meeting of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy... There are quite a number of proposals that have been tabled, so there is a proposal from the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission on the interruption... Well, at least 45 minutes. If necessary, we will extend. So - break until 19:15, and there is an opportunity to extend it if the commission hasn't finished. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U732	Ladies and gentlemen, let us resume the sitting of the Saeima after a break. Please draw attention to the agenda so that the Saeima can conduct its sitting effectively, so that you do not have to wait on the tables. The agenda has been slightly amended. We will begin with the draft law “Amendments to the law “On Environmental Impact Assessment”, then we will consider the draft decision “On Promulgation of the Emergency situation”, we will forward the draft law to the Commission... and then let us see the draft laws that have been examined by the Commission. And hopefully the tables will also be prepared in the meantime. So let's save time. I hope there is no objection to such an amendment to the agenda. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Environmental Impact Assessment”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Gatis Zamurs.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U733	Colleagues, let's keep working. We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Environmental Impact Assessment” (No. 1482/Lp13). The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined the draft law and presented it for final reading. This draft law also aims to promote energy security and independence. This has been drawn up in the context of our previously supported draft law. We have received 22 proposals at the final reading of the draft law and we will consider them immediately. 1. - the proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Kaspars Gerhard. Defaults to limit the number of times... how many times the competent authorities may invite experts to prepare an opinion on compliance with the requirements of regulatory enactments. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U734	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U735	2. - the proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Kaspars Gerhard. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U736	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U737	3. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Andre Chuda. Provision is made for a new article of the draft law - "Abbreviated environmental impact assessment procedure for wind power plants". There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U738	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U739	4. - Member Juris Pouce's proposal. Plans to change the criteria for building a thermoelectric power... the construction of which requires an environmental impact assessment. In particular, it intends to change this capacity from 100 to 300 megawatts. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U740	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U741	5. - the proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Kaspars Gerhard. Technical. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U742	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U743	6. - Commission proposal. An exception is made to the fact that no environmental impact assessment is required for a new road of at least 10 kilometres length if the road is necessary for the ‘construction of wind power plants subject to the law on procedures for the construction of light power projects necessary for the promotion of energy security and independence’. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U744	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U745	7. - Commission proposal. Clarifying the type of environmental impact assessment required for ports. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U746	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U747	8 / 8 - Member Juris Pouce's proposal. It is envisaged to increase the recycling capacity of waste incineration plants for which an environmental impact assessment is required from 10 to 100 tonnes. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U748	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U749	9. - the proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Kaspars Gerhard. Technical. Partly supported and included 10. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U750	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U751	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Commission proposal. An environmental impact assessment is required for overhead high voltage power lines with a voltage equal to or greater than 220 kilovolts and a length greater than 15 kilometres. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U752	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U753	11. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Andre Chuda. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U754	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U755	12. - the proposal from the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Artis Tomas Plšs. Partially supported, included 14. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U756	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U757	13. - the proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Kaspars Gerhard. Partially supported, included 14. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U758	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U759	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Commission proposal. This specifies which wind power plants require an environmental impact assessment. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U760	Members (Interface: “Vote!” )... Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 14. - the committee's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 50, against and refrains - not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U761	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Kaspars Gerhard. The initial assessment shall be required for the conversion of an irrigation system of at least 500 hectares where the proposed activity is located in a specially protected natural area. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U762	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U763	16. - the proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Kaspars Gerhard. The initial assessment is not expected to be necessary for the construction of an operator’s road. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U764	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U765	17. - Commission proposal. Technical. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U766	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U767	18. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. As regards the transitional provision, the date of entry into force. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U768	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U769	19. - the proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Kaspars Gerhard. As regards the transitional provision, the date of entry into force. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U770	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U771	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal from the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Artis Tomas Plšs. This is also about the entry into force of the transitional provision. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U772	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U773	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. On transitional provision - the date of entry into force. This proposal is not supported either.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U774	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U775	And 22. - Commission proposal. The law shall enter into force at the same time as the law on procedures for the construction of light energy buildings necessary for the promotion of energy security and independence. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U776	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U777	We have examined all the proposals. I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U778	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Environmental Impact Assessment” in the second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 52, it's against and abstains. The law is passed. On the agenda - consideration of the draft decision. Draft decision on the announcement of an emergency. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U779	Dear colleagues, In its meeting today, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption examined the Cabinet of Ministers’ Order No. 671 “Advertising the Emergency” declaring the Emergency on the Latvian-Russian border. I will give you the most important thing in this particular order. Thus, the emergency situation was declared for a period of three months, from 28 September to 28 December of this year, in the territory of the municipalities of Alūksne, Balva and Ludza. The basis for declaring the emergency situation is the announcement of partial mobilisation in the Russian Federation in order to strengthen military activity in Ukraine, as well as the need to carry out enhanced controls in the Republic of Latvia in order to eliminate potential threats to the internal security of Latvia. The Ordinance provides for the closure of the Pedestrian Crossing Point. The order also provides for additional resources and institutions to support the State Border Guard, as well as determines the premium, overtime payment and other issues necessary for implementation of enhanced checks and prevention of threats. In the Commission, after hearing representatives of ministries and institutions, as well as other representatives, the announcement of the emergency situation in the situation at the border between Latvia and Russia was deemed necessary, proportionate and supportive. I therefore call on the Commission to support the draft decision that has been drawn up.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U780	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the announcement of the emergency situation! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 61, against - 1, refrains. Decision adopted. Statement by the Bureau on the draft legislative act submitted. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Law on the Renaming of Communist Totalitarian Regime and Russification Names” presented by Member Krišjānis Feldman, Evita Zālīte-Gross, Ainars Bakša, Jānis Butāns and Ieva Akuratere be referred to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are Members against (Interface: Yes!) ) transfer of the draft law? So Members have reservations. Let's vote! Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Commission for Education, Culture and Science of the draft law “Law on the Renaming of Communist Totalitarian Regime and Russification Names”, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. So on the agenda - draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Exceptional Price Reduction Measures". The draft law shall be available in electronic form. Are the draft law available to Members? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) So, we can look at it. Second reading: The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission on Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Raivis Dzintars.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U781	Hello, colleagues! Consequently, nine proposals have been received by the commission responsible. 1. - a proposal from Member Ramona Petraviča. It is envisaged to extend the scope of the aid. As we concluded at the Commission meeting, such a proposal has a significant fiscal impact, which also does not have an agreement on aid in the government. In order not to jeopardise the operation and implementation of this law, the Commission did not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U782	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Ramona Petraviča.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U783	Colleagues, my proposal is to increase support to households not only for the first 100 kilowatt-hours but for the first 500 kilowatt-hours, because 100 kilowatt-hours are very small. In principle, they may be consumed by one single elder living in an apartment. As the Ministry of Economics explained, the average consumption is 150 kilowatts per month, and that figure comes from the fact that households consume 100 kilowatts, but you see, there are those who have these pools at home, and then they are at blame, so those 150 kilowatts arise. I know that in our country 23 percent of people are at risk of poverty. So how much do we have those pool houses? Well, how many of you have pools at home, raise your hands! ( Milestones.) Looks like no one. Last year, when it was considered possible to reduce electricity prices and provide support to households, as an argument was used - those households with pools... Value added tax on food cannot be reduced because, you see, the rich also eat. And it's nothing that households can't pay. Moreover, if the local authorities cannot heat their institutions and the employees will have to work at a certain distance, they will have to work at a distance for half a week, because they will have to spend electricity and heat as well... and, as a result, its costs will pass on to people. So I ask you to support this proposal because the Commission was also encouraged to set a different number if not... if 500 seems to be too much, but this possibility was also rejected and no such proposal was made. So please support... determining support for households for the first 500 kilowatt-hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U784	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U785	In the Commission, representatives of the Ministry of Economics also pointed out that this aid would cost some 67 million hours up to 100 kilowatt hours, we can calculate how significant an increase in funding would be necessary to implement this proposal, as was the fact that the absolute majority of households consume up to 100 kilowatt hours, and the argument was also that adopting such a proposal would reduce the incentive for households to save electricity. Consequently, the Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U786	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the proposal tabled by Member Petravičas! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 7, for - 50, for - 9. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U787	2. - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ilze Indrickson. Editable. Under the second paragraph of Article 5.1 of the law, the words ‘who are legal persons’ are replaced by ‘which are not users of the household’. The Bureau of Laws also acknowledged that this would be a more precise wording. So the Commission is in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U788	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U789	Also 3. - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ilze Indrickson. Editative clarification. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U790	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U791	4. - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ilze Indrickson. This proposal regulates... extend the scope for submission of applications and the range of persons to whom support should be granted. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U792	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U793	5. - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ilze Indrickson. Citizens who do not have an electronic settlement option, i.e. no open account in a credit institution or postal settlement system, could receive cash support. That is why this proposal provides for this. The Members of the Commission unanimously supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U794	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U795	Six more. - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ilze Indrickson. As a result of the pandemic’s cost optimisation, many citizens registered a legal address in their home. This proposal also provides for this population to be excluded from the scope of the beneficiaries if actual energy consumption falls within the limits of the statutory exceptional increase in energy prices. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U796	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U797	7. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Becomed on the basis of John Wittenberg's proposal, and so it has been clarified. Mr Witenberg withdrew his proposal. What is this proposal about? As fuel is not only purchased by public service providers but also by local authorities operating under the Public Procurement Act, this proposal also provides for easier procedures for these entities to purchase fuel. I call for support for the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U798	So the 7th proposal is supported by Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U799	Next - 8. - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ilze Indrickson. Technical specification. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U800	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U801	9. - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ilze Indrickson. Related to the previously supported proposal for cash support. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U802	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U803	We have therefore examined all the proposals. I call for support to be given to the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U804	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on "Amendments to the law on exceptional increases in energy prices" at second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 68, for - no, for - 1. The law is passed. Draft law “On Skultes Liquefied... So, colleagues (Pause) ... So, colleagues, a proposal has been tabled for amendments to the agenda of the sitting. Members Ralph Nemiro, Ēriks Pucens, Andrejs Klementjevs, Jānis Dūklavs and Didzis Šmits ask for a break in the sitting after item 54 “Amendments to the Law on the Exceptional Increase in Energy Prices” by 9 a.m. on 6 October. Mr Ralf Nemiro has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U805	First of all, thank you very much to the Speaker of the Saeima for having responded so quickly to this application, and thank you very much. Colleagues, we have enough time now - almost without twenty-eight - to work productively today, it is very good, we can work longer, but the draft law that is intended to be seen next is in a very great hurry. It is a very important draft law (interface.) , concerning energy security, and we should discuss it more widely, perhaps bring it back to the commission so that we can debate from all aspects. It was about bringing this assessment, which is limited in availability, and of course it has not been distributed among all Members, but only to Members of the Commission, respectively. One more thing - I would like to thank all the members of the Commission who did not come to this committee meeting to look at these issues, because we will look at them in plenary and, consequently, all the debates will also be easier for the Constitutional Court to assess. Therefore, my fellow Members, I think that we do not have to rush with this draft law today. The approach to elections, to be precise, Saturday, is not the basis for us to move forward with this draft law, so I call for a break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U806	Colleagues, we must vote in favour of this proposal. Please call me! We will vote for a break after item 54 by 9 a.m. on 6 October this year at the sitting of the Saeima on 29 September this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 20, it's 50, it's not. So, colleagues, we're going on. On the agenda - draft law “On the LNG terminal”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U807	Welcome again. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined the draft law “On the LNG terminal” (No. 1655/Lp13), which was declared urgent for second reading. 34 proposals were received. 1. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. The name change. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U808	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U809	2. - Member Ralph Nemir's proposal. The name change. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U810	Colleagues, let's start the debate. The name to Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U811	Colleagues, this draft law is tailored to one businessman, one situation, but I think we should look at it more widely. If, in the case of a natural gas terminal, it is really economically conceptually assessed whether we need a LNG terminal in the region at all, then we should talk more complexly about where to develop it. This process was very rapid and decisions were made very quickly. Both the Head of Government and the Minister of Economics publicly stated that the evaluation was not yet sufficient, but the Government's decision to grant this status had already been taken. The security authorities had also evaluated several applicants, but the security authorities did not assess the issue that is in the political section, namely whether it is necessary or not, whether they are addressing the issues of natural gas supply, whether it is in the context of the Latvian National Energy and Climate Plan 2021-2030, or whether it is in the context of the overall trend of the European Union - to give up natural gas in general by 2050. Therefore, both crises are the moment to promote change of behaviour and to deal with a tense energy situation through austerity measures and other measures that shift our energy sector towards renewable energy sources. A very good bill in the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is linked to the development of wind power stations, which would allow additional capacity to be generated. Yes, of course, it is not about balancing capacities, but in any case about additional capacities, and so I think that we should not go ahead and think only about the developer of the Skulte terminal, which has already been mentioned and talked about here by colleagues, who are hiding behind it. I call, my fellow Members, on this issue not to go so fast, because next week we can make a decision and see how it develops. On the proposal to be precise, so this proposal is intended to remove the name Skulte from the bill, because we are already talking about an important object, such as a liquefied natural gas terminal, and so allow the government, so to say, to make a decision where to develop it, with more out of numbers. I call for support for the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U812	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U813	The Commission did not support this proposal. Please reject it.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U814	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Mr Nemir's proposal. Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -16, for -53, for -2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U815	3. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. Article 1 shall be replaced by the following: The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U816	Members (Interface: 'We are voting!') )... wishes to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Family Union. Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 20, for - 51, for - 1. Proposal not supported
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U817	4. - Member Ralph Nemir's proposal. Editable. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U818	Let's start a debate. The name to Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U819	Colleagues, since this draft law is on a single page, it will also have to be explained in more detail why there are such proposals. So four. - My proposal is linked to the fact that... We see in the very bill... In essence, the purpose of the law is “to strengthen the stability of energy supply routes in Latvia”. This is some abstract concept, a completely unnecessary concept, so I call for these words to be replaced by the words “supply route” at least with the word “system”... For safety: breathing Because we are already talking about system operators - the distribution system operator, the transmission system operator - and not the supply route operator. It just doesn't exist. I therefore call for support at least for a legal correction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U820	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U821	The Commission was not supported. I call for the proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U822	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - Member Nemir's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U823	5. - Member Nemir's proposal. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U824	Let's start a debate. The name to Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U825	Colleagues, coming back to the bill again. Goal... It is therefore Article 1. It has been established that... Again, let us look legally at Article 1 of the law, which sets a purpose. The aim is, as I said earlier, to strengthen the resilience of supply routes. Then at least we replace the word “sustainability” with “diversification”. So we are talking about diversifying the natural gas supply routes, not sustainability, because once again, colleagues, I am trying to explain to you that the word'sustainability' has no meaning here. I call for support for the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U826	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U827	On behalf of the Commission, I ask you not to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U828	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - Member Ralph Nemir's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 19, it's against 52, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U829	Six more. - Ralph Nemir's proposal. Not supported by the Commission. ( Intersential words: 'Vote!') ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U830	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - Member Nemir's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 20, it's against - 51, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U831	7. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U832	Members (Interdependence) ... asks for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U833	8 / 8 - Member Ralph Nemir's proposal. Identical. Not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U834	8 / 8 - shall not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U835	9. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U836	Members (Interface: 'vote!') )... asks for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 20, it's against - 52, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U837	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Ralph Nemir's proposal. It's identical. Not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U838	The proposal is not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U839	11. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. The Commission was not supported. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U840	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 18, for - 52, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U841	12. - Member Ralph Nemir's proposal. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U842	Let's start a debate. The name to Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U843	Colleagues, the proposal lays down in essence that the liquefied natural gas terminal is a liquefied natural gas installation located in the port area of Latvia, in this case not determining which port in the area, which in turn allows to assess the possibility of developing it in one or the other port in the future. There have been different assessments, and one of them was the direction of Ventspils. There, I must say, there are more problems than solutions; it is true, therefore, to consider it as such a very successful alternative, I think it would probably not be fair compared to, for example, Skultes or Riga. But in any case, the proposal extends the possibilities and scope to resolve these issues in the future. And we are already talking about actually a project for the future that has to be completed sometime. These developers may also lack the money because they may find, but they may not find, in every case they may find. Maybe they will then run to Conexus Baltic Grid to sell shares, parts to at least some extent to a successful project solution. But the proposal states that we have the possibility to extend the territory of the natural gas transmission system, which then also develops the terminal. I call for support for the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U844	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U845	On behalf of the Commission, please reject.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U846	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. - Member Nemir's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 17, 52, abstaining. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U847	13. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. The Commission was not supported. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U848	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 13. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 20, it's against - 52, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U849	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Ralph Nemir's proposal. It's identical. Not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U850	The proposal is not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U851	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. The Commission was not supported. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U852	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 15. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 20, it's against - 52, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U853	16. - Member Ralph Nemir's proposal. Identical. In my opinion, there is no vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U854	Not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U855	17. - That's Mr Dombrava's proposal. The Commission was not supported. I would like to clarify that at the meeting of the Commission, it became clear that there are regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers which provide for action in cases where the construction of energy supply is affected, for example, by some private property.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U856	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U857	18. - Member Ralph Nemir's proposal. The Commission was not supported. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U858	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 18. - Member Nemir's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 19, it's against 51, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U859	19. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. The Commission was not supported. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U860	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 19. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 20, it's against - 49, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U861	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Ralph Nemir's proposal. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U862	Members want to vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 20. - Member Nemir's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 20, it's against - 51, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U863	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. The Commission was not supported. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U864	Please call me! Let's vote for... Forgive, had applied for a debate. So we are starting a debate. The name to Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U865	Colleagues, I will make this proposal because my proposal, which is next, is similar, and so... If this was not supported, so maybe... then there will be no opportunity to explain why. At the time we passed on the draft law to the Commission, a number of Members spoke about the need to change these specific conditions mentioned in this draft law. And one of the special conditions is that we do not respect the provisions of Section 19 of the Law on the Protection and Management of the Marine Environment, as well as... determining the time at which this liquefied natural gas terminal is to be put into service. I call for support for proposal 21 in the sense that the provisions of the Law on the Protection and Management of the Marine Environment should nevertheless be respected. That is one aspect. And the second key point is that there is a very precise deadline for putting into service, 15 September 2024. Why is that 15 September? We could talk in this case... Because in that case... We now want to diversify the natural gas supply routes in some way. We could talk about a reasonable period of time during which this object would be accepted without haste, and perhaps even constructed more quickly. Colleagues! I believe that, in this case, setting a deadline - it is simply not logical - it does not solve anything. And so both the first and the second paragraphs of Article 4... These proposals therefore call for the deletion of... Colleagues, I call on you to support this, 21, proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U866	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U867	On behalf of the Commission, please reject this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U868	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 21. - the proposal put forward by the Group of the Greens/Family Union! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 20, it's against - 52, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U869	22. - Member Ralph Nemir's proposal. It's identical. Not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U870	The proposal is not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U871	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. The Commission was not supported. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U872	Please call me! We will vote in favour 23. - the proposal put forward by the Group of the Greens/Family Union! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 19, it's against 52, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U873	24. - Member Ralph Nemir's proposal. The Commission was not supported. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U874	There is no vote because of the nature of the vote. And there is also the opinion of the Legal Bureau: not to vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U875	All right. 25. - Member Ralph Nemir's proposal. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U876	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 25. - Member Ralph Nemir's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 19, it's against 52, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U877	26. - Member Ralph Nemir's proposal. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U878	Please call me! To be put to the vote on 26. - Member Ralph Nemir's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 20, it's against - 52, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U879	27. - Member Ralph Nemir's proposal. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U880	Let us start a debate. The name to Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U881	Colleagues, this is a question of conceptual resolution. Our country has opportunities to promote and provide infrastructure for business development. Accordingly, we are developing, for example, an airport and operating airlines; we are developing electricity grids, transmission and distribution systems, and then developing economic operators, which provide power generation with wind power plants, solar power plants and others. I call for the LNG terminal to be state owned. What else supplies natural gas is already linked to market principles. Market based prices, market based contract terms, including maturity, and everything else. And in this case, I am therefore calling, colleagues: if the LNG terminal is still under construction, then it could be built... In this case, I would like to support the fact that it belongs to the State of Latvia and that the holding of shares in this case is the Ministry of Economics. Therefore, colleagues, I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U882	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U883	On behalf of the Commission, please reject.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U884	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 27. - Member Ralph Nemir's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 19, it's against 52, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U885	28. - Member Ralph Nemir's proposal. A similar logic, but - that the terminal belongs to Conexus Baltic Grid. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U886	Let us start a debate. The name to Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U887	Thank you. As the Chairman of the Commission rightly points out, in the present case, its logic is linked to the provision of the services of the LNG terminal. I would like to remind you that the liquefied natural gas terminal will actually be the object of infrastructure, this infrastructure will be linked to the transmission system; the transmission system is Conexus Baltic Grid. And the Conexus Baltic Grid in this case is directly linked to Inčukalns’s natural gas storage. I believe - and I call on you to support it - that Conexus Baltic Grid as an infrastructure manager, a sufficiently large company, partly state-owned, but... with a share, say a majority, may make such a decision - to develop this liquefied natural gas terminal. But then, as I mentioned in the previous proposal, it could be operated by any businessman who would offer competitive prices and other conditions to Latvia without going into the details at the moment, because it is not really important. So Conexus Baltic Grid... here you will see a very specific company - both name and registration number... is capable, knowledgeable, with the experience of this type of terminal also to develop and provide the necessary infrastructure for those who will want to operate in the future in the context of natural gas supplies. In the next proposals, too... I've just told you a little bit because it has to be... I will mention this and will call upon you to support the fact that during the lifetime of this LNG terminal we are not buying (and one of them should be controlled) from those countries that, let us say, are on the list of the Republic of Latvia and international authorised entities. In this case, for example, if a private operator does so, can we fully trust him that this type of requirement will be met? It is a simple stock company, and in addition, shares can be bought by someone to sell, in the future shareholder structure can change, we will not even know who the shareholder is at that time. Consequently, I think that there are a number of risks that have not been properly assessed here. In my opinion, if this liquefied natural gas terminal were to be developed by Conexus Baltic Grid, whose shareholder (if not mistaken, 66 per cent) is the “High-voltage Network” and another shareholder is a sufficiently promising fund, then in my opinion, such risks could not exist in this case, but if it is some kind of incomprehensible joint stock company in which shareholders change (in recent years, for example, 20 per cent was purchased by a Latvian businessman, perhaps after some time another businessman, such as an office, whose shares will be held by a sanctioned person)... These structures and chains can be created by a private businessman as he wishes, while Conexus Baltic Grid, where the number of shares held by the shareholders is, in my opinion, much more secure. And in this case, we are talking about an infrastructure object, which then allows the possibility... in the future, to any gas supplier and trader accordingly to realise this possibility. Therefore, in my opinion, this, 28th, proposal, colleagues, would, however, be logical of such aspects of safety. However, I call on you fellow Members to support the fact that we do not transfer infrastructure to totally incomprehensible shareholders and to an incomprehensible company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U888	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U889	On behalf of the Commission, I call for the rejection.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U890	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 28. - Member Ralph Nemir's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 20, it's against - 51, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U891	29. - Member Ralph Nemir's proposal. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U892	Let us start a debate. The name to Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U893	Colleagues! This question relates to the operation of the LNG terminal - in the context of whether it will be carried out on the principles of a free, open market (as I propose and call on you to support it) or, on the contrary, will be linked to possible hidden conditions that we do not know yet, for example, guarantees such as some particular market... Let us say the price that will be fixed in the contract and also the duration of the specific contract in question. There are a lot of risks here, because Latvenergo... Well, why we are talking about Latvenergo is actually very well understood: Latvenergo is the largest customer who buys natural gas on its own... The rest is already... is such a highly structured and fragmented number of market participants. In this case, we could, however, strengthen in this law the fact that the terminal is working on the principles of a free, open market. Why oppose such an offer? What does this proposal find to be wrong? If we reject such a proposal, we open up opportunities and doors to those who are going to ask for different things later on, so I think, say, like... requirements that do not comply with market principles. Because if you want to supply natural gas and these are free market principles (in addition, there will now be three terminals in the region - not one, but three!) then, in my opinion, these market principles should, however, be included in the law, so that there is no monopoly. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U894	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U895	The Ministry of Economics informed that the terminal will operate on the regulated market and its operation will also be monitored by the Public Service Regulatory Commission. In this respect, the Commission rejects the proposal. I call for this to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U896	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 29. - Member Ralph Nemir's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U897	30. - Member Ralph Nemir's proposal. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U898	Let us start a debate. The name to Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U899	Colleagues, this time I will briefly remind you that the 30th proposal is related to the fact that the LNG terminal is only allowed to receive supplies of natural gas from suppliers that are not on the list of authorised entities of the international and the Republic of Latvia. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U900	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U901	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to inform you that the Saeima has already adopted a law prohibiting the supply of natural gas from the Russian Federation from 1 January. In this respect, I call for the 30th proposal to be rejected. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U902	Please call me! We will vote for 30. - Member Ralph Nemir's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 20, for - 51, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U903	31. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. It is envisaged to add a new article to the draft law. The Commission was not supported. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U904	Are Members willing to vote? Don't mind.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U905	They (Interior: Let’s vote!) ) want to vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U906	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 31. - the proposal put forward by the Group of the Greens/Family Union! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U907	32. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. It also provides for the creation of a new article in the draft law. The Commission was not supported. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U908	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 32. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 19, it's against 52, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U909	33. - Member Ralph Nemir's proposal. This is about transitional provisions. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U910	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 33. - Member Ralph Nemir's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 20, it's against - 51, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U911	34. - Member Ralph Nemir's proposal. It is foreseen that the law will enter into force on 1 January 2024. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U912	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U913	All the proposals have therefore been examined. I call for support to be given to the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U914	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “On the LNG terminal” in the second, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 54, against - 19, refrains - not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to Labour Law”, first reading. Dear colleagues, Members Krišjānis Feldmans, Līva Kreituse, Evita Zālīte-Grosa, Jānis Butāns, Jānis Cielēns and others, in total 10 Members, are asking that the draft law be declared urgent and that the deadline for the submission of proposals for the second reading be 3 October of this year, and the examination of the draft law is 6 October this year. On behalf of the Commission for Social Affairs and Labour, Member Evita Zālīte-Grosa.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U915	Good evening, dear colleagues! I'll be laconic, because it's a late night. The Social and Labour Commission has examined and supported the draft law on amendments to the Labour Law submitted by the Group to first reading Members, Conservatives and Conservatives. Why is this draft law necessary? Firstly, raising the minimum wage is one of the instruments for reducing the poverty of workers, particularly in a context of rising inflation. Secondly, our minimum wage is the lowest in the Baltics and the second lowest in the European Union. And thirdly, the average wage in the economy has increased by more than a hundred euros. In general, the Social and Labour Commission supported the examination of these draft laws at first reading. Please support the draft law at first reading by the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U916	Yeah. The 10 members - Krišjānis Feldmans, Līva Kreituse, Evita Zālīte-Gross, Jānis Butāns, Jānis Cielēns and others - have asked that this draft law be declared urgent. So we have to decide on urgency. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Labour Law” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 27, for - 31, for - 8. The draft law is not declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U917	Please support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U918	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U919	I just wanted to... I'm sorry you didn't support urgency, because we have a situation where we have a minimum wage... the national average gross salary has reached EUR 1362 in the second quarter. The minimum wage is currently 500 euros (it was achieved within the "3 × 500" plan) – it is only 36 percent of the average wage. Normal level would - 45 percent... Well, as in a country... 40-50 percent, and that would be... if EUR 620 were, it would be 45 percent. It is a pity that there is no urgency, but I call for support at first reading, and at least then quickly for the Commission to go ahead and see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U920	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U921	You plunder out the interests of the oligarch from the beginning and now try your image to shine very populistly. In essence, with the adoption of a mandatory social levy, the small business has already been brought into the shadow economy area, already three billion will be in circulation in the shadow economy - this is the result of your actions. Now, by nature, you want even more part of the shadow economy. This proposal is populist, does not correspond to the economic situation and drives small business into shadows. No such populist bill will help you to get 14. At the Saeima, and I very much hope that 14. There will be no such irresponsible, superficial bill. I will not support this draft law and ask the voters, especially those working in the small business - cosmetologists, photographers, patent payers - who were destroyed by the majority of this parliament - the coalition - in no way support such Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U922	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U923	Yeah. On behalf of the Commission, please support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U924	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Labour Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U925	The deadline for submitting proposals is 6 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U926	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 6 October this year. Dear colleagues, I must inform you, in connection with the plenary sitting scheduled for today, of the answers to Members' questions. Member Ramonas Petravičs, Erika Pucena, Ieva Krapāne, Kaspars Ģirgens and Māra Možvillo Minister of the Interior “On the use of resources (material and labour) to ensure the security of Riga Praida event in 2022”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister shall inform him that he is unable to appear and give an oral answer. Member Jūlija Stepanenko, Alda Gobzema, Karina Sprūde, Lubova Švekova and Ainars Vilciņš Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development “On Disconnection of Skulte and Cleans villages from Power Supply”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that no oral answer can be given. For the member Ramonas Petravičas, Māra Možvillo, Kaspars Ģirgens, Ralfa Nemiro and Ainārs Vilciņš, Minister of Health “On number of Covid-19 vaccines reserved, purchased and delivered and their use”. No written reply was received. And the Minister informs you that you cannot come and give an oral answer because of the busyness. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name Andrejs Klementyevs to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U927	Good evening, honourable Members! Not registered: Uldis Augulis, Raimonds Bergmanis, Boriss Cilevičs, Gundars Dauge, Nikolajs Kabanovs, Artuss Kaimiņš, Ivans Klementjevs, Ieva Krapāne, Armands Krauze, Jānis Krišāns, Edgars Kucins, Maris Kučinskis, Viesturs Liepkalns, Regina Ločmele, Maris Možvillo, Igors Pimenovs, Ivans Ribakovs, Inguna Rībena, Edvins Šnore, Jānis Urbanovičs, Viktors Valainis, Inese Voika and Jānis Vucāns. Thank you all. Good luck in the elections! The next sitting will be more interesting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-29-PT13-2410-U928	So everyone's luck in the desire! Thanks to the members of the Saeima for their endurance and work at the late hour. I'm closing the sitting.
