ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U1	Dear colleagues, We will begin the sitting of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 9 June 2022. First of all, the amendments tabled to the Bureau's agenda. The Legal Commission is asking to include in the agenda of the sitting the draft law “Amendment to the law on the application of educational measures to children” at first reading. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission is asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendment to the Criminal Procedure Law” at first reading. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission is asking for the first reading of the draft law amending the Criminal Law to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs is asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Pensions” at first reading and to include it after point 26 of the agenda. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Committee on Social and Labour Affairs asks that the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Patients' Rights at first reading be included on the agenda of the sitting and that it be included after point 26 of the agenda. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks that the draft law on amendments to the Road Traffic Law be included on the agenda for the first reading. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Road Traffic Law” to be included on the agenda of the sittings (No. 1518/Lp13). Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Cabinet of Ministers asks for the draft law “Amendments to the Education Law” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ ) There are objections. Please call me! We will vote in favour of including in the agenda the draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on Education’ (No. 1519/Lp13)! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 63, against - 15, abstaining. Decision adopted. The draft law is on the agenda of the sitting. The Cabinet of Ministers asks that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on General Education” be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ ) Please call us! Vote on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on General Education” (No. 1520/Lp13) on the agenda of the sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 65, it's against - 15, it's not. The draft law is on the agenda of the sitting. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Pollution” at first reading. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption is asking to include in the agenda the draft decision “On the appointment of Ilze Znotiņa as Head of the Financial Intelligence Service”. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption is asking for the draft law on National Security to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption is asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the National Armed Forces” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The commission of mandates, ethics, ethics and applications asks for the draft decision to be included on the agenda of the meeting “On Alīna Gendele 13. Approval of the mandate of a Member of the Saeima" and inclusion on the agenda as the first item on the agenda. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs is asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Support Law” to be included on the agenda of the sitting (No. 1527 Lp13). Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. And Members Krišjānis Feldmans, Juris Pūce, Raivis Dzintars, Arvils Asheradens and Uldis Budriķis request that the draft decision on “On the appointment of Ilze Znotiņa as Head of the Financial Intelligence Service” be excluded from the agenda. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. National Association “All for Latvia!” - “Fatherland and Freedom/LNNK” asks to exclude paragraph 33 of the draft law “Amendments to the law on maternity and sickness insurance” from the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The order of business has been amended. The draft law is excluded from the agenda of the sitting. Honourable Members! Let us start by looking at the amended agenda of the sitting. On the agenda: "Dealing and terminating the mandate of Members of the Saeima". Draft decision on Alīna Gendeles 13. Approval of the mandate of a Member of the Saeima’. Ainars Latkovskis, Member of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U2	Colleagues! Considering that Aldim Adamovich 13. The Saeima Member’s term of office has expired and the Saeima Bureau has invited the Saeima to join the next candidate, the Saeima’s mandate, ethics and application panel to inform: according to the Central Electoral Commission, the next Member’s candidate from the political party’s New Unity on the Latgale electoral district list is Alīna Gendele, who has agreed to accept 13th. The duties of a member of the Saeima as well as the fact that he is not subject to restrictions on the appointment of a Member as laid down in the Saeima Election Law and other regulatory acts shall not apply to him. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft decision on Alīna Gendele 13. Approval of the mandate of a Member of the Saeima’.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U3	Thank you. I call on Alina Gendel to make an oath or solemn promise.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U5	Thank you. I invite you to sign the solemn promise. Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on Alīna Gendele 13. Approval of the mandate of a Member of the Saeima’! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Congratulations to Members of the Saeima, Alina Gendel! (Applause) I invite you to take a seat in Saeima's meeting room. On the agenda - reports from the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Road Traffic Law” presented by the Legal Commission be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima shall propose that the draft law “Amendment to the Law of the Judicial Executives” submitted by the Legal Commission be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Energy” presented by Mr. Janis Vitenbergs, Mr. Krišjānis Feldmans, Mr. Arvils Ašeradens, Ms. Gata Zamuras and Mr. Jānis Dombrava be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market” presented by Mr. Janis Vitenbergs, Mr. Krišjānis Feldmans, Mr. Arvils Ašeradens, Ms. Gata Zamuras and Mr. Janis Dombrava be referred to the National, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Bureau of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” presented by Member Ata Zakatistova, Ainara Latkovska, Raivja Dzintars, Krišjānis Feldmans and Juris Pūce be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the Member Viktoras Valaiņa, Ulda Augulis, Jānis Vucanas, Armands Krauze and Gundars Many's draft law "Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax" be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Interface: “Let’s vote! ” ) Please call us! To be put to the vote on the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax (No. 1506/Lp13) transfer to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, making it a responsible commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 35, for - 49, for - 1. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Bureau of the Saeima proposes the Member Viktoras Valaiņa, Ulda Augulis, Jānis Vucanas, Armands Krauze and Gundars Many’s draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” (No. 1507/Lp13) transferred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the Commission responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U6	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, This draft law aims to reduce the rate of value added tax on foodstuffs. This draft law is drawn up on the basis of a proposal from the Cooperation Council of Agricultural Organisations. This draft law is prepared on the basis of the proposal prepared by the Farmers' Saeima. By the way, this draft law is also prepared... the proposal made by the Ministry of Agriculture, which has also been widely expressed in public space, but unfortunately, discussions on this have not begun at a serious level in the Saeima or in the government. If we look at the reduction in price increases that the government is currently offering, then I would like to say that there is simply no such thing. No concrete solution is offered from the government to reduce price increases, the impact of inflation on Latvian residents. Even before the war in Ukraine, even before all these inflation increases, a very large proportion of Latvian society (almost a quarter of Latvian society) thought every day about paying bills; more than half of Latvian society thought monthly about paying bills. Currently, the Latvian Government has proposed as compensatory measures... The six proposals, many of which are still to be debated, are waiting for decision-making, but none of them - absolutely none of them! - does not give a clear answer to Latvia's population how to compensate for the rise in prices. Moreover, we now have the Latvian Government's view that nothing crazy has happened. The Minister of Finance says publicly that in Latvia energy prices rise - it is such a bubble, it's nothing that everything will be fine in the autumn. People are already paying double for the wood. Food prices are already rising, also talking to farmers... grain prices, hereinafter - the entire food industry - all costs. A presumption of a 50 per cent rise in prices: at the moment, I could say that it is the mildest version of what awaits us in the autumn. The rise in prices will be many times greater, and the government is doing nothing to offer concrete solutions to reduce this price increase. We only hear promises, but all these targeted offers... Dear colleagues, All of us now need to help us all. The story that the reduction in the value added rate will only help the wealthier (more than those who do not have so much income) is completely wrong in this situation. We need to help the whole of society right now. We must help to reduce inflation. At the moment, the government is just watching and in a way deserves... to the citizens' shoulders without making any adjustments - either for fuel or energy or for food - just watching people cut their last pockets to pay these taxes. Prices are rising, but there is no solution. All the solutions proposed, which have now been expressed by the government, do not give sufficient support to citizens to live in everyday life with a little less care. Today, too, electricity support has come to an end, and people are receiving double electricity bills. This will be a major challenge for paying off the debts incurred during the winter at all. We must reduce the price increase burden on Latvian citizens. We gotta cut it off! We can't keep watching... If the government does so, then I call on the Saeima to intervene at least and still find some sort of offers. This is not the case at the moment. I call for support at least for this offer that is food. By reducing the pressure on food, it will also help producers, it will help all residents of Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U7	Mr. Aldis Gobzems has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U8	Hello, Latvian society! I hope that I will not be stopped by any female leper, so I want to call for a 'no' vote, of course, for all those who are against people and especially against those who are most vulnerable to inflation. But the important difference is this: when you go to a store in Latvia, you see it every day - and everyone who has open eyes - that there are people who count santoms at supermarkets or smaller shops. In the shop itself, it can also be seen that people who buy food... their shopping baskets are often very poor and... plans. This applies in particular to pensioners. That is why I admire all those pensioners who listen to the Saeima sitting and continue to vote for the existing powers that make these pensioners poor. I really admire... humane. And this comparison, why did I start with Latvia, where you see poverty on every step... As you know, the power was trying to tell me very massively that I am in Spain or something else. And I'm really in Spain... and not only in Spain, but in other European countries, I have looked at shops, how people shop, what their habits are. Believe me, I don't see people in the handbag. I see people who go shopping with shopping wheels, basically with big wheels that are bought in full... For the whole week. This means that those people have some resources. And the difference is that there are reduced VAT rates, but there are no reduced VAT rates for food in Latvia. This is an important thing, because cheaper food - it is not just social support. It is also a question of health. It automatically goes into the matter of medicine and everything else. Moreover, it should be pointed out in particular that a country, power, power that is currently in the process of being subject to high prices - the higher the prices, the more expensive the products, whether they are food or petrol, because the country receives more taxes. It doesn't have to think it puts a higher price and receives taxes so that it can pay more wages for itself while the pensioners count their savings. That's how it works in real life. And then we're proud to get on the TV and say that we have over-taxation. But logically! When you pay the most expensive petrol in Europe, the country also gets double because taxes are simply higher than in other countries. Let us not talk about food, we do not have double food, we have five times and even ten times higher taxes, almost ten times higher taxes. I admire those people, I really admire Latvian society that believes in Panorama, believes in power, lives poorer and poorer, receives big bills and continues to believe all of them... for those graphs that are shown to you, which are marked for being there, I don't know, for the New Unity 17 per cent. I do not know any people in Latvia who will vote for the New Unity, no one! ( Internouncing call.) But they have 17 percent on the schedule. They have made everyone poor in Latvia, all citizens of the Republic of Latvia, with the exception of some of their OICs. I don't know anyone who will vote for them, except for those who own gambling. Or those who vote for Conservatives, except for those who engage in smuggling or cover it. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. ( K. Feldman's intermediate call.) It may be that people have to start to open their eyes... and you need to start to understand that poverty in your life is the wealth of this power - because you live poorer, because this power lives richer. If you want to do so, continue living it for more than 30 years, continue listening to “Panorama” and Latvian Radio for the next 800 years and vote for your poverty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U9	Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax (No. 1507/Lp13) transfer to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, making it a responsible commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 37, against - 48, refraining from - 2. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” presented by Member Ērika Pucena, Kaspars Ģirgena, Ieva Krapāne, Ramonas Petraviča and Māra Možvillo (No. 1508/Lp13) transferred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is a responsible commission. ‘ Ēriks Pucens, a Member, has applied for this.”
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U10	Hello, dear colleagues! What have we done like the Saeima for these months... We see that every day, every week, fuel prices rise every month. Perhaps one of the Members here does not see this, but people in the regions - farmers, small entrepreneurs - see it every day. I am most disappointed by the fact that the press and society are being shown and reflected that the Saeima does not make any decisions. I would like to clarify that the media may be speaking specifically: the coalition is unable to make decisions, not the Saeima. The opposition Members have brought their proposal, almost every week, to reduce this tax. I understand that Mr Bhutan of the Conservatives has little understanding of small businesses and of what makes up a price store. Of course, he just needs to get away from the drug, not even look at this proposal at the Saeima Commission... Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. It is easier to reject and say nothing. Perhaps Mr Bhutan can come to the tributary or one of the new alliances can climb the tributary and say why there is no need to reduce value added tax. Mr. Asheraden, please! Come on! ( Internouncing call.) But we won't see it coming. No one will come. Therefore, my fellow Members, I am calling for this - for the bill to be passed on to the commission, because neither the Saeima nor the Cabinet will come with any proposal at the moment, and then certainly before the elections, it will come as a bag of gifts, and it will smell on its proposals. I call for support for the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U11	Thank you. It is called upon to vote in favour of the draft law. Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax (No. 1508/Lp13) transfer of the budget and financial (tax) commission, making it a responsible commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 33, for - 51, for - 1. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Protection Zones” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Aviation” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Energy Efficiency” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the member Ralfa Nemiro, Māra Možvillo, Erika Pucena, Ieva Krapāne and Ramonas Petravičs be referred to the National Administration and Municipal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Ralph Nemiro.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U12	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Thus, the draft law ‘Amendments to the Saeima Election Law’ would in fact provide for two essential things. Firstly, a member of the Saeima can be an operational person. Secondly, it would not be possible for a Member of the Saeima to be... as a candidate, more precisely within the scope of this law, a person with several citizens. Why are we talking about this? Because we have often heard: there will be some kind of bear of happiness that will save our country, with experience from abroad, but, to be honest, we have enough people for ourselves to be involved, especially now, in politics, at a time when the competence or incompetentness of the government (thus each one has shown itself to be clear enough). There are several countries where such rules have been adopted. Undoubtedly, it is very important to talk about the fact that, if we call on a double citizen as a candidate, then in the Saeima he represents the interests of Latvian society and, in parallel, what - the interests of another country? When naturalizing, the new citizen must also give a corresponding oath, and it solemnly promises or oaths trust in a particular country, but not in the Republic of Latvia. Therefore, however, I call, colleagues, to think from Latvia's interests in this context. Then it could also be a question of national security aspects. As we can see, this terrible war caused by the troops of the Russian Federation in Ukraine can also in future, for example, lead to a similar situation if a citizen of another country, perhaps representing the relevant authorities of another country, can stand here and, for example, will not act in the best interests of Latvia when entering the Saeima. That is why I think it is very important to move on with this issue simply... and to the commission... and ask this question. There are two important aspects here. Thus, firstly, the question of capacity, which is very important. Secondly, the issue of preventing double citizenship. ( Internouncing call.) Colleagues, we don't need the bear of happiness that will come and save us all here. Let's get it done! I call for support for the bill. Thank you. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U13	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Internouncing call.) Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Saeima Election Law” to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the member Kaspars Ģirgena, Alda Gobzema, Ieva Krapāne, Jūlija Stepanenko, Karina Sprūde, Lubova Švekova and other draft laws submitted “Amendments to the Law on the Status of a Member of the Municipal Council” be referred to the National Administration and Municipal Commission, stating that it is a committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Kaspars Ģirgens.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U14	Colleagues! I will certainly ask you how long you are going to lobby members of your party, because in 2020, I made a proposal before this reform, that we do not need to finance former chairmen and vice-chairmen of local governments, and that this will be a burden for future local budgets. It was also an example of the State Audit Office's report that it would be a burden... about EUR 11 million to be paid to local authorities for having two terms of office as President or Vice-President. My forecasts have now been fulfilled. I will inform you of what you may not think about - where the municipal money is going. So in this new... Following the reform of the local government, municipalities have to pay a total of EUR 113 000 each year. It is not difficult for me to name those municipalities that will sponsor those former Members of the parties who, I believe, do not have this money. Currently, the same region of Nereta will pay EUR 1000 every month, Rugāju district, Nīca municipality - EUR 1000 in addition, Auce municipality - EUR 250, Jelgava municipality - EUR 1000, Aknīste municipality - EUR 83 (there are even Members who require an additional EUR 83 in addition to their pension), Sala municipality - EUR 151, Ērgļu municipality - EUR 1000, Sigulda municipality - EUR 1000, Inčukalns municipality - EUR 1000, Malpils municipality - EUR 1000, Talsi municipality - EUR 1000. A total of 113 thousand additional fees are due. To these 113 thousand, we can count... After 2018, it was already 307 thousand more to pay, now that the minimum wage is 500 euros, we can calculate that 113 thousand more should be added to these 400 thousand. So every year we pay about half a million to these former Members. And you have to ask, is it really fair and fair that they... Many of them are retired, and we pay these thousands extra. How honest it is to those citizens who could receive benefits, even an example of the birth of a child... or municipalities pay for the current electricity consumed during the night in the dark, or pay for additional education courses for children. Do we really have to sponsor these party members to the fact that they were once presidents or vice-chairmen? I will continue to stress that many of those who can apply for this money will certainly apply many years later. Even if we can take an example... There have been examples that after eight and nine years apply directly after the benefit reaches that age, the pre-retirement age. But we can see that we also apply for pensions at age. I call for this proposal to be supported and for this injustice to be ended once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U15	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Please call us! We will vote for handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Status of a Municipal Council Member” to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 7, against - 68, refraining from - 1. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes the Member Andrejs Klementyeva, Vitaly Orlova, Jānis Krišāns, Valeria Agešin and Regina Ločmele’s draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Pensions” (No. 1514/Lp13) to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, establishing that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Vitaly Orlov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U16	Thank you, Presidium. Dear Members, On Tuesday, the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs discussed at its first reading the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Pensions” (No. 1492/Lp13), which we will see later today. In the debate on this draft law, all members of the Commission considered that pension indexation was not the only mechanism for supporting pensioners. According to the Central Statistical Administration, there is very high inflation rate in the country, which is close to 13 percent. The sharp rise in prices in 2021 and 2022 was mainly influenced by three main elements: the costing of food, housing and transport services. This means that the cost of basic needs is increasing rapidly, which is essential for pensioners, as pointed out by the representative of the Latvian Pensioners Federation to the members of the Commission. And already, some of the pensioners are unable to cover the costs of utilities and primary needs. According to the Ministry of Finance, the price increase for these services will remain throughout the year. It is now clear that the autumn and winter months of this year will be particularly difficult for everyone, but the most difficult will be for those who depend on the support provided by the state, so the group SASKĀJA drew up a draft law entitled ‘Amendments to the Law on State Pensions’ (No. 1514/Lp13) to compensate for high-speed inflation with special support in December this year, the so-called 13th pension. This bill provides for the payment of one-off aid for compensation for inflation in December of this year, without taking into account the pension premium for insurance periods accrued before 31 December 1995. The aid is intended to be paid in a targeted way, in particular by supporting low-pension beneficiaries, not as the Ministry of Welfare did during the community. Please support the draft law, hand it over to the Social and Labour Commission, where we can debate it and also add other mechanisms to help our pensioners survive this autumn and winter. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U17	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Please call us! Vote on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Pensions” (No. 1514/Lp13) transfer to the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 30, 51, abstain - not. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Seimas Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Holidays, Remembrances and Markable Days” presented by Member Eva Mārtuja, Krišjānis Feldman, Jānis Dombrava, Edvinas Šnore and Jānis Butāns be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, which states that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to the referral of the draft law to the commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that Member Eva Mārtuja, Krišjānis Feldman, Jānis Dombrava, Edvinas Šnore and Jānis Butāns refer the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Religious Organisations” to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ ) Are there any objections? ( Interface: “Of course! ”) ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Religious Organisations” to the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs (Intersacretions.) , stating that it is the commission responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 38, against - 15, refraining from - 1. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the draft law on the Road Traffic Law, tabled by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Igors Pimenovs has applied to speak against’.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U18	Thank you, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the draft law is to replace training in minority languages with training in Latvian in pre-schools and schools of general education. I object because this jeopardises the cultural identity of families belonging to minorities. The transition to training in Latvian is started without coordination with children's parents, non-governmental organisations of minorities - therefore forced - and leaves no choice. As a result of this transition to the Latvian language training of children in minorities, the State ignores its international obligations, namely Article 15 of the General Convention for the Protection of National Minorities of the Council of Europe, which states that the Member States of the Council of Europe (quoted) "shall undertake to create the necessary conditions to enable persons belonging to national minorities to participate effectively in cultural, social and economic life as well as in public life, especially when minorities are affected". The necessary conditions for persons belonging to national minorities to be able to participate effectively in the learning language of children belonging to minorities were not created or even attempted. Results of the Central Statistical Administration survey in 2017 show that 61.3 percent of residents in their home speak Latvian. Today the proportion of Russian speakers is 37,7 percent. In other languages one per cent of the population speaks home - Belarusian, Ukrainian, Polish, Lithuanian and other. As a result, 38.7 percent of Latvian residents speak minority languages at home. Parents and guardians have a reasonable right to ask the State to ensure that they learn first and foremost in the language in which they bring up their children from the taxes they pay. This bill leaves the opportunity to learn only minority language in school, but completely eliminates minority language learning by pushing minority assimilation. The importance of this for minorities was well understood at the time of the third Awakening, when it was recognised that Latvian culture was preserved thanks to two conditions: Latvian countryside and Latvian school. That is why the Latvian People's Front politicians, with the aim of obtaining a favourable attitude from Gentiles before the Latvian SSR Supreme Council elections in 1990, addressed them with such an appeal. I quote: “Do not believe those who are doing it! LTF supports minority rights to obtain comprehensive education in its mother tongue, as well as promotes the establishment and development of national schools in Latvia.” Modern power is a child of the political victory of the Latvian People's Front. This victory became possible only because the people believed the Latvian People's Front. If you hadn't believed, the LTF is close to power. Latvia has moral commitments, and they cannot be separated from the victory of the time. If we forget, the deceivers will remind us of this. And this is not about anxiety, there are more harsh things. This is the disappointment and alienation that fraud, political fraud, always sows. This draft law is a terrorist act against a united Latvian society. The state will pay a very high price if the law is passed. I call for a 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U19	Alexander Kirštein has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U20	Dear President, Honourable Members! The language determines the way of thinking, it is not such innocent, understand the co-existence of two or three languages. And 30 years after the restoration of independence, it is excellent to show how successfully a parallel country was built with Russian money in Latvia, as I said, with its own language, with its own education system, with its own banks, with its own companies. And in the middle, it turns out, there's another Latvian language in the bags, which doesn't want to get closer to the big Russian community... That's what we're being accused of. Language is a weapon. Use or prohibition of language brings much bigger results... or big language pressing... and relations with less language bring much greater results than, say, shooting a nation with artillery weapons or bombing. Russia is an excellent example, where more than a hundred languages have been destroyed, according to various Russian authors. Take a look at the same Acuñina, let's look at the same Karelia, which was once a republic, then an autonomous republic, and try to go and find who knows the language of the kings. Colleagues, Latvians are the only people in Europe who are willing to destroy their language as such. After the Russification of 1891, all Latvian language teachers with Russian speakers were replaced in a few months, the level of education in Latvia was postponed for about 20-30 years, starting from the University of Turbata, Riga Polytechnic Institute, which was one of the best universities. In the current situation, let us remember the policy of Russia or the USSR. In 1940, when the occupying troops came here, what was the first work to be done? The motifs were closed in the Hebrew, the schools were shut down in the Yiddish, Polish, Belarusian and all these children had to go to Russian schools, because the Russian language was a much more effective weapon than, say, Czech or Russian gas chambers with the inscription “Hleb”, which was invented in 1936... Even before Germany. We were just... we met with members of the Turkish Parliament. That's amazingly amazing... confirming the theory that the large countries are large simply because there is a common language. In France you do not have an Arab school or a Russian school. After the collapse of 1990 and the collapse of the USSR, some 14 million Russian-speaking Soviets left abroad and several million more were living in the European Union and the United States as a result of the war with Ukraine. No Russian schools are open and funded there, just as there is no Arab schools in France or Turkish schools... In Turkey, it was surprising that absolutely all channels on television, including BBC documentary, Discovery, National Geographic, a whole row of other, all working in Turkish only. When we asked how there is, say, with Armenian schools, with Jewish schools, with Kurds schools, they said - no, they all act as Sunday or Saturday schools, but in order to be strong, there must be only one language with one way of thinking. After the Russian invasion in Ukraine, we see that Russian imperialism has absolutely not changed from the time when the Siberian people were murdered, when the Caucasus peoples were murdered and their language was banned, when the Latin spelling in Latgale and Lithuania was banned in the 19th century. Nothing has changed completely. I do not want to be as rigid as the publicist Vilis Vītols, who says that Russian should be banned for 30 years and impose enormous penalties, but I am sorry to teach here this imperialist orc language at a time when they continue aggression is simply shameless. I invite you to support education... proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U21	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not 65, it's 16, it's not. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on General Education” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U22	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues! I have to say this: 30 years after the restoration of Latvia's independence, the division of children in Latvia has continued according to the language used by their families, and it has been beneficial for the forces who have always tried to break up society and radicalize society. In particular, I would like to point out here these particularly anti-state forces, whose ideology predicts that Latvia's independence has never really been regained. Similar to what we discussed in previous sittings of the Saeima, for example, the draft law “On the ban on the exhibition of Soviet and Nazi-sanctioned objects and their dismantling in the territory of the Republic of Latvia” (and we will also see it at second reading), as well as this draft law, like the previous one, which has already been handed over to the Commission, is about preventing the consequences of occupation. The aim of the draft law is to ensure a uniform approach to the transition to training in the state language, because many probably do not know how big its problem is in Latvia. It turns out that there are 43 municipal educational institutions in Latvia that implement the pre-school curriculum in minority language, and 153 institutions... pre-schools, which implement programmes in both minority and Latvian language. Similarly, there are 29 more schools implementing primary education only in minority languages, but 112 schools using this mixed regime. This bill, this package of draft laws, provides that from 1 September 2023 the language of instruction in general education, basic education, programme implementation in grades 1, 4 and 7 will be a state language. It shall also cover Classes 2, 5 and 8 from 1 September 2024. And then - from September 1, 2025 - to Classes 3, 6 and 9, thus concluding the transitional period. The law will affect a large number of children. That's what it is. This law will affect more than 15,000 children, i.e. those in pre-school, but it will also affect almost 46,000 in primary education, plus their parents. Since these two draft laws are important for preventing the consequences of occupation, and thanks also to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, which has already convened an extraordinary meeting this Friday at 11.00 to examine these draft laws dynamically for the first reading. Thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U23	Ms Jūlija Stepanenko, Member, has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U24	Colleagues, today we heard a sentence from this tribunal that language is a weapon. It is very bad that you really believe that children need to play with weapons and that children have something to do with weapons. No, children need to learn languages, children need to learn different subjects, children need to learn mathematics, physics, chemistry, geography, children also need to learn a logopedia in their mother tongue (by the way, those who do not know it). But what we hear today... What we also read... of those who are now from the tribunal saying that it is a weapon, of those who are saying that for 30 years we have suffered and are now finally, in the light of geopolitical events that are absolutely unrelated to children's development, we will start tomorrow, with Monday, for example, only in Latvian with all children - they are those who politicize the language issue first. And before politicising the issue of language, perhaps at first you should start with yourself and learn to speak the right Latvian language and write the right Latvian language, if we are talking about the same education and science ministers, which have probably been corrected by everyone, as she did not write correctly on Twitter, and also start with the parliamentary secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science, who is unable to make two sentences in the right Latvian language. Dear colleagues, start with yourself and then go to the other children and raise them, and make them speak the language you want, but at first learn to speak in clear and understandable Latvian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U25	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on General Education” to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the draft law on the Law on National Security, tabled by the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the National Armed Forces” submitted by the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the draft law presented by the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs “Amendments to the Law on Civil Support of Ukraine” be referred to the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Changes to the agenda for the Bureau meeting were tabled. The Legal Commission is asking for the first reading of the draft law on road traffic law to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Do Members object to the inclusion of a draft law on the agenda of the sitting? There is no objection. Draft legislation is on the agenda of the sitting. The Legal Commission is asking to include in the agenda of the sitting the draft law “Amendment to the Law of the Executors of the Court” at first reading. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Ainars Latkovskis, Alīna Gendele, Rihards Kozlovskis, Anda Čakša, Kārlis Šadurskis and others are asking to include on the agenda the draft decision “On the election of Member Alīna Gendele to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Ainars Latkovskis, Alīna Gendele, Rihards Kozlovskis, Anda Čakša, Kārlis Šadurskis and others are asking to include on the agenda the draft decision on the election of Member Alīna Gendele to the Commission of Mandate, Ethics and Application. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks that the draft law on amendments to the Road Traffic Law be included on the agenda for the first reading. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption is asking for the first reading of the draft law on National Security to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption is asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the National Armed Forces” at first reading. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs is asking for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Support Law” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. Dear colleagues, We will continue after the break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name of Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U26	Colleagues, I call for a meeting of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. It will take place both on-site and with the possibility of virtual connection to the Zoom. Now, on a break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U27	Thank you. Name for both the notification and the reading of the registration results for Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U28	Colleagues! Meeting in support of the Democratic Belarus Group with Ms Cihanouska at the moment in the Red Hall... as soon as we can get together. The discussion will take place in English with translation in Latvian. At the same time, the results of the registration. Not registered: Aldis Blumbergs, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, Normunds Dzintars, Marija Golubeva, Ivans Klementjevs, Inese Lībiņa–Egnere, Regina Ločmele, Ramona Petravičs, Ivans Ribakovs and Jānis Vucāns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U29	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U30	Dear colleagues, We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Draft decision “On the dismissal of Svena Lorencs, a judge of the Riga City Vidzeme suburb court from the office of a judge”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U31	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, During the meeting of the Legal Commission on 31 May of this year, the draft decision “On the dismissal of Svena Lorencs, a judge of the Riga City Vidzeme District Court from the office of a judge” was reviewed. The members of the Commission unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call on Sven Lorenz, a judge of the Riga City Vidzeme suburb court, to be released from office of a judge due to health condition from 30 June 2022. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U32	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the dismissal of Svena Lorencs, a judge of the Riga City Vidzeme suburb court from the office of a judge”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. Decision adopted. The draft decision “On the appointment of Jacob’s Stream as Head of the Office for Prevention and Combating Corruption”. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Zenta Tretjaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U33	Hello, honorable Presidium! Dear colleagues, Section 4(1) of the Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau Law provides that the Speaker of the Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau shall be appointed by the Saeima for a term of five years on the recommendation of the Cabinet of Ministers. On the basis of the first and second paragraphs of Section 4 of that Law, the Cabinet of Ministers ordered No. 157 published an open invitation to tender. The competition notice in the official edition of the Official Journal of Latvia was published on March 10, this year, issue No. 49. The competition commission was chaired by the Director of the State Chancellery and consisted of the Director of the Constitutional Protection Office, the Head of the State Security Service and the Prosecutor General. In addition, three authorised representatives of KNAB Public Advisory Council participated in the selection of candidates for the post of Chairman of KNAB. The selection of candidates was carried out in accordance with the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers of August 2, 2016 No. 516 Two applications were received at the National Chancellery to the announced vacancy of the Chief of KNAB. According to Section 4 (3) of the Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau Law, the evaluation committee of the applicants took a decision to recommend and direct Jēkabs Straumi. Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption draft decision on the appointment of the Jekabėna Stream as Head of the Office for Prevention and Combating Corruption (No. 948/Lm13) prepared its 1 June meeting in support of the candidacy recommended by the Cabinet of Ministers. Decision of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia “On the appointment of the Jekabas Stree as Head of Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau”: “The Saeima decides: to appoint the Head of the Jekabas Straumi Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau. This Decision shall enter into force on 15 June 2022.’
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U34	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name to Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U35	Dear colleagues, Mr. Jacob Stree! At the moment, we are looking at the issue of the appointment of the head of the Office for the Prevention of and Combating Corruption. It has to be said that there are, of course, two parts here. First of all, this administrative section, which is carried out by the head of the institution itself, in order to organise the work. In this case, if we look at the success, then they have, I think, been good, because some time ago we saw that the office was fragmented. It was some time ago. At present, we are no longer witnessing such trends. However, on the other hand, colleagues, we are the body that decides on the budget. And the Anti-Corruption Office has a budget of €14.5 million. So if we appreciate this work, how has it really worked? Corruption perception index - that is a special index. Of course, there are many aspects in general, so if there is some louder thing, then, of course, the corruption perception index may not improve, but on the contrary, get worse, because in society this issue may sound quite active and so many people think that corruption is all bad, but on the other hand - on the contrary - things are being evaluated in this case that are being brought to justice. To wish someone like... It would be important that those things that are being started in the Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau... Of course, I also understand the situation in which the case is often opened to clarify the circumstances of the case and, if the circumstances of the case are clarified, the case is closed. It is one such procedural act, but if cases are sent to the prosecution office and are subsequently tried and there are often extenuating judgments there, it seems necessary, however, to wish to improve the legal quality of this institution. Otherwise, people often feel that no thief is convicted. This, in my opinion, should not be allowed, and if the cases are brought (and there should be more a look at statistical indicators) what is happening with the convictions? This is a very important aspect, because otherwise we see very much such loud cases, detentions and everything else, but ultimately the convictions in the state of law are not visible. I therefore wish to improve statistics in this context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U36	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? No, no. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the appointment of the Jekabėna Stree as Head of the Office for Prevention and Combating Corruption”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Thank you, the decision has been made. Congratulations to Jēkabs Straumi on his re-appointment as Head of the Office for Prevention and Combating Corruption. On the agenda - draft decision “On approval of Santa Purgaile as Deputy President of the Bank of Latvia”. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U37	President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, Resurrection! 13. The Saeima will, in essence, enter the history of Latvia with the fact that we will have done a very large amount of work in the Latvian financial industry. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “All extradited for prosecution!” Thank you. (Laughter) Artus can never stop joking. (Laughter) Oh, yeah. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “It’s true!” ) But given that we have done a huge job 13. During the Saeima with regard to the financial industry, we still have... to say that the dog has been violated, but it has to break its tail. We're here. ... We have created institutions, and now we have to fill in these institutions... I don't want to say budget seats, but now... There are already budgetary seats - the seats for officials. The first thing we look at is Santa Purgaile's candidacy for approval as Deputy President of the Bank of Latvia from 1 January of next year or 2023. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission examined and supported Santa Purgaile’s candidacy for this post. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U38	Let us start a debate. The name to Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U39	Colleagues, if we talk about the Bank of Latvia... the position of the candidates, in this case, a little look should also be taken into account in the previous experience. And what has been worrying is that in the Financial Sector Supervision Sub-Commission and also in the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission we have assessed whether entrepreneurs in Latvia have had any problems with opening accounts. There have been, several entrepreneurs have pointed out, and business organisations have also spoken about it. And if there is a problem, we need to understand how to solve the problem. This is first and foremost. In essence, it should also be understood which institution is then actually guilty of it. And now there's such an interesting situation that the Financial and Capital Market Supervisory Commission is in fact a regulatory act... and the regulatory body, the Financial Intelligence Service is the authority that looks at the violations, while the banks are regulated, the banks are checked. The most dangerous thing that can develop is a zero-risk policy in banks. This means that in the case of a new customer, the bank is more likely to give up the customer than it is likely to face some risks in the future. In this way, very many entrepreneurs who have not been able to open their accounts find themselves in a situation where they need to find another place to do so. Unfortunately, this often happens in our neighbourhood, which means that a company moves its business to the country where it is easier to operate, and we understand very well that it is not possible without an account. That is why, in this sub-committee, these institutions, unfortunately, began to show each other with their finger - we are not guilty, the other is guilty, and so on. Therefore, I think that if we are talking about the future of the Bank of Latvia and the experience of Mrs Purgaile, then I - quite the contrary - can say that it is very welcome. But if we talk about financial intelligence activities in the future, then we would obviously have to deal with this problem in a bit more detail, because if a real problem is a big one and it is linked to our economy, because business is moving to another country, I think it is a very worrying aspect and, to be honest, it is also linked to the revenue of the budget. Therefore, colleagues, I am now calling for support, but when we look at the issue of how the other institution works or how it works, we will return to this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U40	The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U41	Please combine the two times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U42	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U43	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Dear candidates for the positions of the Bank of Latvia and the FCTC! We have looked at the candidates for the positions, both with Mr Kazak and with the candidates individually, so in different formats, in the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, in the Commission for Taxation and in the Group's meeting. So that there is a broad debate on these issues. I will perhaps outline a couple of important points from my perspective, which should be highlighted and taken into account by these candidates on whom we will vote. First of all, how have we developed the financial sector? My colleague, Mr Eglitis, said such a very precise phrase, in my opinion, that the financial sector is in a way like a country's blood circulation. Then we have to look at how we have gone in recent years. Of course, we all know the story of this grey list, in which we did not enter, of financial capital repairs. I think no one has a great surprise... No one will be surprised when we hear that with supervision we have drowned a second ditch. As the previous speaker said, there are indeed cases where even European entrepreneurs have problems opening accounts in Latvian banks, not to mention the possibility of a more innovative sector like FinTech receiving licences... and so on. But, specifically on this point, I would also like to compare in the Baltic context - where we are then. I also asked the President of the Bank of Latvia the following question: if we have seven joint members of the Council of the Bank of Latvia and the FCTC, who of them will be responsible for the development of the financial sector? And the answer was that there are people with... Let us say, relatively, two things for which they are responsible - at the same time as monitoring and development, which some members of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) thought was such an interesting link, but it has now come. I already think that this group of seven people must find a separate person who, however, would be specifically focused on development issues, but, as we have seen, both Mrs Purgaile and Mrs Chernobyl-Mežmales will be responsible for the development of the financial sector, so that the next step will be directed primarily at you, as we have already spoken in other formats. We expect - and I can say it on behalf of the Group too - the development of financial technologies, as well as the development of the crypto currency. We know that Lithuania is highly developed in financial technology companies. More than 70 stacks have passed through the so-called regulatory sandbox in the field of financial technologies, but in Latvia no company has received a licence, although for years such a regulatory sandbox seems to exist. Estonia has also positioned itself as a serious player in the crypto currencies, which is a new turnaround and a change in the financial system. I think we should also look in that direction. In particular, I would like to see those two candidates who I have mentioned that your work will focus on cooperation with innovative companies and on the area of innovative financial technologies in order to really develop our financial sector. And maybe you should look more salty here, too. Not only the big four or another possible bank can be a key element of our financial sector, but also the same ones, let us say, the already grown stock, such as the Revolut company, which decided to open an office in our region - unfortunately not in Latvia, but in Lithuania. Also various crypto companies that have wanted to work and develop in Latvia, but have moved to Estonia and currently employ 200 high-paid... provide jobs. So this is the direction that goes after this crazy, I will say, a phase with financial capital repairs. Whatever it comes out, the next vector (and this one will be right on your shoulders) should be a development vector. I also wish it, and I will follow it in order to do so. Remember, candidates, that you are partly jointly responsible - and quite to a large extent responsible - for whether the Latvian economy will develop or continue to stagnate compared to other Baltic countries. Thank you. I call for development work. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U44	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U45	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Honourable Members! I will add a little to what the previous speaker said. The efficiency of banking and financial system employees is only one - comparison with Estonia and Lithuania or comparison with foreign investment. It has to be said that, just after the introduction of the so-called renovation of capital, we started to fall short quickly and the foreign capital investment in Latvia and Estonia is now about 25 percent less, both per capita and per capita. And there are several reasons. Let's say, as if not the reason, but the consequences are the last case, when several very successful Belarusian IT companies working abroad wanted to open their accounts, but could not open their accounts in Latvia, went to Lithuania, where they did it absolutely without problems. Latvia is small and we do not have a lot of specialists, but I would like to remind you that, unfortunately, the Bank of Latvia or the current board and the next board work the same people who completely ruined Latvia's economy by attracting Latvia's lats with a hard course at the time, giving up the use of monetary policy, as Poland did before the crisis. In 2007, 2008 the Latvian economy was completely destroyed by supporting the rescue of Swedish banks. Unlike Poland or Iceland, which devaluationd foreign mortgage loans by about 40 percent, to bring this crisis to foreign speculators, Latvia made the so-called internal devaluation, which was supported by the Bank of Latvia, and then it continued to undermine the economy by imposing on the meetings of the Cabinet of Ministers, as we see in the protocols, and on the former President of the Bank, but he could not do this without state support... forcing the government to repay the private loans of Parex banka to private lenders by borrowing from American banks and buying valueless, stacked mortgage paper that was converted into bonds. Latvia lost more than €1.4 billion. As a result, at least a hundred thousand people left Latvia and we have not recovered from this situation in several sectors. As regards banking supervision, I would like to say that it is rather strange that a whole series of so-called bandi banks got licences and worked in Latvia without any problems. For example, we know the so-called Latvijas Pasts Bank, which then became a joint stock company “LPB Bank”, where Uļmans, a criminal, was known. His activities were known from 2008 onwards. Let us remember that his company killed former owners, husband and wife, as well as a continuous money laundering and finally the murder of Bunkus. Was that not known in society? How could such people even... Could the members of the board of banks associated with these people have obtained permission and permission to open such a bank? Another fact is extremely interesting. In these very “Mono” and “Mego” companies belonging to the bandits Babenko and Uļman, the vice-president is Kajem, who is also the vice-president of the Riga Jewish Community. It also explains the extremely generous gift of Latvia - to allocate 40 million to the Jewish organization coming from Russia... and gift. The management of KNAB, of course, is watching something there, doesn't look at anything; I hope that the re-elected head of KNAB may lead the matter to the end. But the most important thing is that the various rules are being imposed unnecessarily when the accounts are opened, and there is an unequal treatment in the banks, as Mrs Znotiņa also said to us in the Financial Supervision Commission... because they already work together. She said that if, for example, you create a person with political responsibility, then the bank must work much more and therefore have hundreds of euros to pay for maintaining the accounts. And then the question is: why should everyone do these checks in the absence of a police report? It already shows that it is more such a garden body than a supervisory body. I recommend that we support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U46	Thank you. Time. Thank you. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U47	Dear colleagues, First of all, I would like to say that this capital repairs of the financial market were introduced not by officials, officials or anyone outside the standing, but by us here in the Saeima. It started in Mr. Kučinski's government and continued in Mr. Karini's government. For all regulations, regulations, regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, to implement all these things, which were talked about here today three before me... which is currently threatening or affecting Latvia's economic growth in some way - we voted for it ourselves, we took these decisions. I call on us to keep this in mind, above all, for ourselves. These people, who are here today, are offered to take up these most responsible positions, in my view, act according to the law, and that must be the case - according to the laws, the rules we have set ourselves, we have created ourselves. If at the moment our foreign restaurant is unfortunately so weak that it is unable to achieve the same, equal conditions throughout the European Union, outside Latvia, so that it is not that our economy suffers from the fact that these rules are much simpler, more accessible, more user-friendly for the single market economy in neighbouring countries, in the nearest neighbouring countries... These financial sectors. Here, too, Mr Znotiņš mentioned more open solutions, for example, in Lithuania itself. All this is already our own responsibility, the legislators, to provide the necessary instruments and make these procedures as easy as possible so that we can be competitive, above all, in the internal market, which is within the European Union. As long as this is not the case, the situation will be the same as it is, and many politicians will continue to talk about it. Colleagues, I also call on myself, the Saeima, to take the initiative. The Foreign Investors' Council has already pointed out this, but I have not seen any reaction either in the Saeima or in the government, pointing out specific problems that are currently worrying foreign investors directly in the banking system. What can these people who are sitting here right now do? They (including all those who will sit here next week) respect the laws and regulations that we have created for them. And there's not to the right or to the left. Therefore, if we see these shortcomings, I call on my colleagues to come forward with legislative proposals... call on the government to change, amend. Then we will also be able to demand responsibility from those who hold these positions that oversee the entire financial system. But in this respect, I also appeal to the financial system actors themselves, to these our supervisors, to the officials responsible, including those proposed for approval today. I call on you not to remain silent and, if you see shortcomings, to encourage amendments to the laws, to encourage legislative changes, so that we can be more competitive, so that our financial sector develops and that our financial sector does not suffer from something else, here in our neighbourhood, so that the situation is much simpler, more flexible, understanding also the challenges that we were facing in 2017, 2018. I therefore also call on the officials who we will approve today to come with their own initiatives, to offer a vision that can be improved, not only to expect us to do so. I invite you to support all the candidates proposed.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U48	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U49	This speech will probably not like Mrs Purgaile and those who will vote in favour, but it will be fair. It will be fair in a number of considerations. The main consideration is that the only beneficiary of this approval will be the candidate for the post itself. Why? Let me explain. I don't know you personally, I don't have any sympathy or hatred towards you, but I've seen and heard countless Latvian citizens, Latvian entrepreneurs' stories about how you can work in Latvia using credit institutions, open accounts about how you can live in Latvia. And the answer is that it is very difficult. In order to allow Latvian businessman to work normally with an account opened in Latvia, it is almost impossible. If he has international trade, it is easier for him to open an account in Finland, to go to Finland and do it there. And probably the Bank of Latvia is jointly responsible for those solutions, regulations and supervision that are reregulated in Latvia. Throughout this period, which has been the case up to today, I have not noticed any active action by the applicant for the position in question to change it in Latvia, in order to change the fact that a teacher who transfers EUR 20 should not give an explanation simply because he has entered Cuba Libre on a payment order. Our excessive running according to some guidance on how to monitor the financial sector has actually led to the collapse of the financial sector, to the fact that the financial sector in Latvia does not exist any more. Every businessman who wants to work goes somewhere else. I had a conversation recently with a businessman who had been... he has represented a large company known in Latvia that would not be named, but for which much of the production goes to the east. And one day the credit institution tells him that they will close accounts in Latvia - not because he has violated something, but because it is almost impossible for the credit institution to monitor and check every transaction, it is more advantageous for it to close accounts with a large company that opens these accounts in Estonia and continues to work there. It's not normal. And then we are surprised that Estonia is 10 years in front of us. I understand that everything comes from political decisions, and I understand that the posts in which Parliament is appointed must be able to do so, as we say, bend and feel in the direction of some political constitution, but I still think that the interests of the state in this case, when it comes to introducing and allowing the maintenance of such a system, are seriously offended and, in the end, the pensioners, the teachers, the parents of children - everyone suffer. Is it not obvious then that in Latvia everything goes away and Latvia is increasingly uncompetitive even against the background of its closest neighbours? The financial system is, in fact, the most important reason why this is happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U50	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U51	Colleagues, on behalf of the commission, I can only say that on accounts, account opening, account operations... Oh, we talked a lot during the committee sitting and not just. So, I think, both these three candidates and Mr Kazak have heard all of us. The nomination of Santa Purgaile was approved by the Commission... as Deputy President of the Bank of Latvia. I invite you to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U52	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On approval of Santa Purgaile as Deputy President of the Bank of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -69, against -15, abstaining - not. Decision adopted. Congratulations to Santa Purgaili with approval as Deputy President of the Bank of Latvia. The draft decision on the approval of Ilze Possumas as a member of the Board of the Bank of Latvia. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U53	Mrs Posuma, in fact, first of all, is the man who helped deflate all the big documents that we had to do, both in the Commission and here in the Saeima, because otherwise we would not have done it. Secondly, Mrs Posuma is what, in fact, will have completely changed the composition of the Board of the Bank of Latvia since we became operational on 2 July. As I said, the date on which Mrs Posuma will be in office is 2 July this year. In the Commission, we examined Mrs Posuma's candidacy, called on and supported it. I also invite you to support Mrs Posuma as a member of the Council of the Bank of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U54	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On approval of Ilze Posumum as a member of the Council of the Bank of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Congratulations to Ilzi Section with approval as a member of the Council of the Bank of Latvia. The draft decision “On approval of Kristīne Černaja-Mežmale as a member of the Council of the Bank of Latvia”. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U55	With 1st of January next year, the Bank of Latvia received or added a Financial and Capital Market Commission... Thus, there are members of the Council who will continue their work in the Council of the Bank of Latvia, and Kristīne Černaja-Mežmale is one of them. In the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, we examined and supported Kristīne's candidacy for this post very carefully. I invite you to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U56	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On approval of Kristīne Černaja-Mežmale as a member of the Council of the Bank of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Congratulations to Kristīne Chernaju-Mežmali with approval as a member of the Council of the Bank of Latvia. On the agenda - draft decision on the removal of Ģirts Rūda from office as a member of the Council of the Financial and Capital Markets Commission. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U57	Finally, we have received Ģirts Rūda's application for his removal from office as a member of the Board of the Financial and Capital Markets Commission from 31 December this year. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Why?” ) We examined and supported the Commission. Mr. Neighbours, if you're interested, we're...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U58	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U59	... don't talk to the grass, yeah. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U60	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the removal of Ģirts Rūda from office as a member of the Board of the Financial and Capital Markets Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Competition Law’, third reading. Economic, agricultural, environmental and regional policies... I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We shall continue with the draft decision. So there have been changes to the agenda. Draft decision on the election of Member Alīna Gendele to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Member Alīna Gendele to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of Member Alīna Gendele to the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Application. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Member Alīna Gendele to the Commission for the Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Application! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. Decision adopted. Now, on the agenda, the examination of draft laws. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Competition Law’, third reading. Member Viesturs Liepkalns on behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U61	Hello, very honourable Chairman of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Competition Law” at third reading (No. 1277/Lp13). I would remind you that the draft law aims to strengthen the functioning of the Competition Council with the necessary guarantees of independence, resources and enforcement powers for the effective investigation and prevention of infringements of competition law. In total, four proposals were received by the Commission. 1. - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ilze Indrickson. This is necessary in order to ensure a stylistic uniform wording of the draft law throughout the law on the determination of the maximum amount of the fine and to replace the words ‘a percentage’ in the second and third paragraphs of Section 12 of the Competition Law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U62	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U63	2. - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ilze Indrickson. In order to ensure the use of a single terminology in competition law, the proposal provides for clarification of the seventh paragraph of Article 12.1 of the Competition Law by replacing the words ‘tolerance programmes’ with ‘tolerance programme agreements’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U64	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U65	3. - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ilze Indrickson. Refers to points 23 and 24 of the transitional provisions. Partly supported and included 4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U66	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U67	4. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Points 23 and 24 of the transitional provisions shall be provided as points 21 and 24 by changing the numbering of the transitional points accordingly. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U68	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U69	Ladies and gentlemen, we have examined all four proposals submitted. The Commission has supported the draft law at third reading. I also invite you to support the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U70	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on “Amendments to the Competition Law” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 69, against and refrains. The law is passed. Draft law ‘Law on the management of the Internal Security Fund, the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund and the Financial Support Instrument for border management and visa policy for the programming period 2021-2027’, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhena‐Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U71	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues! The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission examined draft law on the management of the Internal Security Fund, the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund and the Financial Support Instrument for Border Management and visa policy for the programming period 2021-2027 (No. 1429/Lp13) for the second final reading. A total of 39 proposals were received. 1. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Eklone. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U72	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U73	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable add-on to the norm. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U74	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U75	3. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Eklone. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U76	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U77	4. - also the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Eclone. Explanation of the drafting rule. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U78	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U79	5. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Eklone. Technical specification. It is necessary to avoid duplication. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U80	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U81	6. - a proposal from former Minister for the Interior, Golubeva. Harmonisation of legal terminology. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U82	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U83	7. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Eklone. Editative clarification. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U84	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U85	8 / 8 - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Eklone. Technical specification. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U86	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U87	9. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Eklone. Related to clarification of the legal technique. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U88	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U89	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - also the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Eclone. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U90	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U91	11. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Eklone. Provides a editorial clarification of the provision. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U92	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U93	12. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Technically. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U94	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U95	13. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Eklone. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U96	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U97	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Eklone. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U98	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U99	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Minister Eclone's proposal. Editative clarification. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U100	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U101	16. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Eklone. Related to legal technical matters for clarification of the rule. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U102	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U103	17. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Eklone. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U104	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U105	18. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Eklone. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U106	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U107	19. - still the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Eklone. Partly supported and included 20. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U108	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U109	20, on the other hand. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Clarifying Versions... editorial. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U110	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U111	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Eklone. Technically precise. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U112	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U113	22. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Eklone. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U114	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U115	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Eklone. Supported, included 24. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U116	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U117	24. - in turn, the proposal of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Editative clarification. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U118	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U119	25. - Mrs Golubeva's proposal. The provision of Article 16 is specified in a editorial manner. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U120	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U121	26. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Eklone. Related to the editorial clarification of Article 17, second paragraph, point 1 of the draft law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U122	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U123	27. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Eklone. Editable, with references specified. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U124	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U125	28. - the proposal from former Minister for the Interior, Mrs Golubeva. Related to alignment of terminology. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U126	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U127	29. - Mrs Golubeva's proposal. Editative, clarify Article 20(2). Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U128	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U129	30. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Eklone. Related to editorial clarification. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U130	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U131	31. - Mrs Golubeva's proposal. Related to clarification of rules, editorial. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U132	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U133	32. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Related to legal technical matters shall be excluded from the rule of law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U134	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U135	33. - Mrs Golubeva's proposal. Partly supported and included 34. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U136	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U137	34. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Technically. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U138	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U139	35. - Mrs Golubeva's proposal. Related to the rewording of the title of Chapter V. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U140	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U141	36. - Mrs Golubeva's proposal, too. The inclusion of the reference and... editorial clarification of the norm. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U142	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U143	37. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Eklone. The clarification of the transitional provisions. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U144	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U145	38. - Mrs Golubeva's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U146	Minister for Home Affairs! The proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Maria Golubeva, and Members support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U147	Yeah. So the proposal of the Minister at that moment, Mr Golubeva, who has been supported by the Commission. In connection with the terms and conditions of issue of regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U148	39.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U149	38 was supported. And 39. - the current proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Eclone. Related to clarification of transitional provisions. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U150	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U151	Thank you very much to my fellow Members for their support. I call for support to be given to the draft law at second, final, reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U152	Please call me! We will vote for the second, final reading of the draft law on the management of the Internal Security Fund, the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund and the Financial Support Instrument for border management and visa policy for the programming period 2021-2027! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U153	(The card is being put into the voting machine.) Excuse me, colleagues, the card's worn out. ( Milestones.) So, well, I can't put the card in, but I hope we all vote and we'll be united. Consequently, the Legal Commission has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media” (No. 1476/Lp13). The draft law has been declared urgent. Two proposals were examined at the Commission meeting. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The title of Chapter IV1 shall be specified. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U154	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U155	2. - The legal commission's proposal. Provision is made for the entry into force of the law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U156	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U157	All the proposals have therefore been examined. In the Commission, the draft law at second, final, reading is supported. I call on my colleagues to support the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U158	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media at second, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Fertilisers’, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Janina Kursīte.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U159	Hello, very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Hello, colleagues! See the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Fertilisers” at third reading. No proposals were received for the third reading. Please support the draft law at third, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U160	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on the law on the circulation of fertilisers in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, Changes to the agenda of the Bureau meeting were received. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. The Commission is asking for the draft law to be placed on the agenda of the ordinary sitting of the Saeima on 9 June ahead of agenda item 30 - Amendments to the Scientific Action Act - and to be examined at first reading. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Cabinet of Ministers asks that the draft law “Amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Support Law” be included on the agenda for referral to commissions. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Patients’ Rights”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Ilmārs Dūritis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U161	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. High honourable Members! The Committee on Social and Labour Affairs worked and watched the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Patients’ Rights” at first reading. Overall, the draft law provides for the following changes: First. Provision should be made for the National Medicines Agency to process patients' data when deciding to grant compensation in case of serious or moderate harm to the health or life of the patient due to adverse reactions to the approved vaccine against Covid-19 infection. Secondly. To determine that patient data recorded in medical documents can also be used by residents who are students in the course of studies “Health care” study programme “medicine”. Thirdly. Unify the contestation procedure in the medical risk fund cases, making it, in substance, simpler. The Commission also had discussions on this draft law. In general, the commission supported it during the debate, but the Cabinet of Ministers had asked for urgentity to be established for this draft law, which was also supported. Therefore, I would first like to call on the Saeima to make this draft law urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U162	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Patients’ Rights” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U163	The draft law was unanimously supported by the Commission at first reading. I therefore ask the Saeima to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U164	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Patients’ Rights” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U165	The Commission decided that the deadline for proposals for second reading should be set at 10 June of this year and the deadline for second reading at the sitting of the Saeima on 16 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U166	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 10 June this year. Consideration at the Saeima sitting - 16 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U167	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U168	Draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Pensions” (No. 1492/Lp13), first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Andris Skride.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U169	Dear Mrs. Mourniece. Colleagues! So we have reviewed the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Pensions” at first reading from the Cabinet of Ministers. As you know, the essence of this draft law is that pensions are usually indexed on 1 October, but due to the rapid inflation this draft law will determine that pensions will be indexed on 1 September this year. This will also apply to people with Group I disabilities and also to people who have worked there at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. As a number, one commission asks for this draft law to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U170	Please call me! Vote on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Pensions” (No. 1492/Lp13) recognition as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U171	The Commission is asking to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U172	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Pensions” (No. 1492/Lp13) at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U173	We will wait until 5 p.m. on June 13. Review in the second, final reading - Saeima meeting of 16 June.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U174	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 13 June by 5 p.m. Consideration at the Saeima sitting - 16 June this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Explosives for Civil Purposes”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U175	Dear colleagues, The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Explosives for Civil Purposes”. The draft law provides that in the future, if the blasting works are to be carried out in mineral mining sites, the co-ordination of the project for the blasting works will be subject to the payment of a state fee, the amount and payment procedure of which shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers by issuing appropriate regulations until 31 December 2022. In the Commission, having heard representatives of the institutions, it was concluded that the coordination of the project of bombing works is an important step in ensuring control in compliance with the requirements of the Law “On Pollution”. Consequently, the harmonisation of projects for blasting works is in line with the object of the national levy. The draft law is supported by the Commission. I call for this to be supported at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U176	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Raimond Bergman.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U177	Hello, very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! It could be assumed that, in connection with this draft law on the law on the circulation of explosives for civil purposes, it is very clear that when it comes to explosives... and the environment, the representative of the Green Party, then it really should talk about these things. In the Commission, asking many different questions, it did not create any confidence as to why we are doing this at the moment. However, it will be a matter of attitude. Do we think about this moment, which we are about to vote on? Just a few figures. Harmonisation is already under way, supervision is already under way, but yet we need 71 euros and 15 contacts so that we can double the confidence that the State Environment Service will carry out this supervision in a better quality. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Puce: “Months... The next is the number that will benefit at this point in time and the expected benefits that the state budget could bring. In 2021 there were around 13 such cases. The country is expected to benefit from €924. And now we think about how the government acts at this point against the tax-paying entrepreneurs. That's your attitude. This is your arrogance towards these people. In addition, write in an annotation - the draft law has no impact on the business environment. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Puce: “No!” ) None. As Mr. Pouce says, no! I find it hard to believe this because. — Dep. J. Pouce’s intermediate call.) The representative of the Ministry of Finance also said very openly that this draft law, which increases the levy and taxes, was not included in the budget law last year, because the coalition could not agree, because it could be that the opposition would pay attention to it and - where can we then increase the fees during this period. That was the answer from the Ministry of Finance. At this point, when there is an economic crisis and when we want to change something, and when people are ready and working and pay taxes, we are imposing such an extra charge on them. Very respectful attitude from the coalition towards these entrepreneurs who are involved... In addition, as far as I am concerned, it is about building roads, for which, unfortunately, we also cannot take very good care of. That's why I and the Greens/Farmers' Union... we cannot support this draft law at this point, the amendments because (Minimum.) ... as I mentioned in my speech, it is your attitude towards entrepreneurship. I had the honour of speaking here from this troupe and calling upon the entrepreneurs when they asked for your support so that they could help Ukraine... At that time, too, you were accurate... the same attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U178	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U179	Well, I cannot agree with Mr Bergmanis because I believe that explosives are, of course, a very important topic for the country. It is clear that it should also be considered that one additional state fee is necessary and the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers for the introduction of the state fee should be laid down, but in my opinion, this draft law really requires further clarifications. Therefore, I feel that the deadline set by the Commission for the submission of proposals is such that it may not be enough to discuss this important draft law qualitatively. I therefore call for this to be supported at first reading, but for the experts, the experts, to come together and discuss this draft law for second reading, while still making proposals, for example, before 1 September this year. Why should such an important question be done so quickly? It is time for experts to come together. That will be my suggestion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U180	Name to Member Armand Kraus. ( Interface: €900 a year!) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U181	Hello, colleagues! I really hear that the hall says: "900 euros per year." And then I wonder if the country will not spend some 9 or 19 thousand to implement the additional revenue of EUR 900 per year on its own. So, adoption of the law... It can also be calculated how much it costs, how much some preparation already costs. Then there are some legislative amendments, some of the meetings I have heard, the working groups recommended by Mr Feldman. Well, there's going to be a pretty round sum, and if really, even 10 times to nine thousand these costs, which are linked to design, will rise, then we'll just get what we're going to do here in 10 years. I therefore personally believe that if there is control in this area, as Mr Bergmanis said, and it is quite a strict control, because I do not believe that in Latvia explosives can operate freely... I know that in agriculture, even mineral fertilisers, ammonium nitrate cannot be bought by anyone. So the controls here will certainly be even more stringent. And now to make such a mess for a coalition of EUR 900 - and I think that is totally unacceptable. I therefore also call for this draft law to be rejected. If we do not want to reject, the deadline for submitting proposals... On October 1th, then, let's do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U182	I'm sorry. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row:
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U183	October.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U184	... October Okay. I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U185	Nothing will be added on behalf of the Commission. I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U186	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on the law on the circulation of explosives for civil purposes! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U187	The deadline for the submission of proposals decided by the Commission is 16 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U188	June?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U189	Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U190	Thus, without 16 June this year, two more deadlines for submitting proposals are mentioned - 1 October this year and 1 September this year. So let us first vote on the next 1 October of this year. Please call me! We will vote on the deadline for submitting proposals to the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Explosives for Civil Purposes” - 1 October of this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 31, for - 31, for - 31, for - 2. Consequently (Internal references.) this deadline is not adopted, so we remain in force on 1 September of this year, which we will now vote on. Please call me! We will vote for the deadline for submitting proposals to the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Explosives for Civil Purposes” - 1 September of this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 1 September this year. Ladies and gentlemen, and now on the agenda - draft law on "Amendments to the Criminal Law" (No. 1289/Lp13) submitted by Members Kaspars Ģirgens, Ēriks Pucens, Ramona Petravičs, Lubova Švecova and Maris Možvillo. , and the alternative draft law tabled by the Legal Commission, ‘Amendments to the Criminal Law’ (No. 1498/Lp13). The Commission rapporteur will report on both drafts, and the debate on the two drafts will also take place together. We will then vote on the draft law tabled by Members first, then on the alternative law tabled by the Commission. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U191	So the commission has examined... In the Legal Commission, we have examined the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Law” (No. 1289/Lp13), which, looking... In particular, the draft law was drawn up with a view to establishing the criminal responsibility for driving or teaching a vehicle when the blood alcohol levels measured in breath or blood tests exceed 1.5 promenades, or driving or teaching a vehicle under the influence of narcotic, psychotropic, toxic or other intoxicating substances. In the Commission... So that's the goal... was designed to reduce the number of serious accidents and reduce the number of drivers who move under the influence of alcohol by criminalising drink driving. When examining the draft law in the Commission, we found that improvements to the draft law were necessary, therefore we rejected the draft law and prepared an alternative draft law of the Legal Commission within the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U192	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U193	Colleagues! There are two feelings right now. On the one hand, it is sad that it took about one-and-a-half years to arrive at the first reading, because already in 2021, the former Minister of the Interior, Sandis Ģirgens, raised the issue of the need for stronger control of the drinkers. Another April 2021... from the coalition, the Minister of Justice also objected... that it would be necessary to punish - in addition - drinkers, though... The statistics showed a rather sad picture. This issue was also addressed in the sub-Commission, the Commission for Legal Affairs, where... there was no support for all this, but... Unfortunately, in January 2022, a tragedy had to take place in order for the Saeima to accept the amendments tabled by our Members in the bill and we could move forward and apply criminal accountability... From 1.5 proms... what the State Police also encouraged and called for. Therefore, on the other hand, yes, there is satisfaction. A certain time has passed since these draft amendments were approved by the Saeima in January, but there were obviously many different challenges on this road to reach the first reading. As an example, we can take the Ministry of Justice, who had prepared for the criminal liability to come from two excuses. And the main reason was that... from two proms... There will be less, let us say, of this drinking sphere that could be punished. And why should... We could take the same from the three promenades, and then there would be even less to be punished. I am very grateful to those public authorities who took part in this commission from the prosecutor's office... who believe that these issues can be dealt with very quickly - in a couple of days. It has also been said from the medical institutions that 1.5 protagonists are already at a stage where it is not possible to drive properly. That is why Members have, of course, unanimously supported it. And we have to move forward, with responsibility... From 1.5 promenades. However, work on this does not stop, and many different steps need to be taken to further improve this situation. And I would still have... this more than a year... from the Ministry of the Interior, in addition to a vision of how to deal with these issues - whether we need to reduce the number of promenades, or whether we also need to include, for example, criminal law, the fact that we will confiscate these vehicles for drinkers. Could this be the solution? And, in part, I also agree with what Members have mentioned in the public space... and I would also stress - Mr Kirštein - that we need to move in that direction, that we need to think about the welfare of the country and the level of education. However, in order to move on to this issue too, there must be action by Members, not just to speak, because we see that now... we are approaching the crisis in October. And it's not a secret that this is another reason why people's well-being will fall and people can get stuck in the yoke of alcohol. And therefore, as Members, we must think, of course, not only about how to punish, but also about how to help people overcome such difficult situations so that they do not have to drink at the wheel. And that is why it is not just about rejecting the opposition's proposals that... We not only need to find solutions to this crisis, but also to be active already this year... This year, I very much hope... And I hope very much that in June... will be a solution for us to move forward. But I'm sure I'm calling... I advise the home affairs system to think about how to tackle this problem, which is very important to us in Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U194	The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U195	Dear colleagues, The issue of criminal liability of drunkards has been discussed several times in the Commission on Criminal Law Policy of the Legal Commission. And it is not true that our decision involves one tragic accident. ( You can take and listen to audio recordings made by the Legal Commission.) Five years ago, we talked about the fact that (Interinstitutional call.) ... We talked about the fact that. — Dep. K. Girgens: “Five years!” )... Listen, please! ( Milestones.) We talked about reforming responsibilities... system (Interim) And by refusing... Five years ago, we talked about giving up an administrative arrest and perhaps talking about criminal responsibility. At the time, five years ago, the experts considered that administrative responsibility would be sufficient and effective. Now we see that there is still a need for more severe penalties. However, the primary objective of our amendments is not to punish them. The primary objective is to inform the public, to warn that if a person drives a vehicle under influence, that is, under both alcohol and drugs... that there is criminal liability for this. It is important to note that more than two thousand people per year are caught driving under the influence of a vehicle... with proms... more than one and a half promenades. They're going to be punished. And here I see one problem that could and should definitely be thought of. If there is a large fine at the moment, it can lead to a 50 - hour sentence being imposed on a person by our court. In my opinion, we still need to think before the second reading in order to avoid a situation where our amendments will ultimately make the sentence easier. I ask for support for the alternative draft law drawn up by the Ministry of Justice and the Legal Commission of the Saeima and its sub-committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U196	The name to Member Kaspars Girgen for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U197	Mr. Judine, this is regrettable: listen to and hear how you have encouraged and done something five years ago. Five years! Imagine how many families have been destroyed! Go now to these people and apologize that you were unable to pass this law in time. How many families have been destroyed (Characters). and how many families will still need to be destroyed until you reach the third reading! The whole summer will take off, September, October. I very much hope that, in October, you would wish... You will not be in the Saeima, because there is no toll on you. If there is a problem, it must be dealt with immediately and now, and I would like to see this draft law as a matter of urgency. You had to make this a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U198	Dear colleagues, We work in Parliament; there are procedures in Parliament. Members can also encourage recognition of the draft law as an urgent measure. No such proposal has been received. The name to the Member, Andrejs Judin, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U199	I very much hope that Mr. Girgen will hear what I said. I understand that at the time of the pre-election maybe he has no time, no understanding, but I very much hope. In particular, the issue of administrative responsibility was discussed in the course of the work on the amendments... And I'm glad that the draft laws work with experts who take direct care of road safety. And it must be understood that responsibility for violations is and will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U200	We will continue after the break. Please call me! Please register the Members! The name of the Member, Igor Pimenov, for his statement.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U201	Members (Rolling Noise) , please your attention for a moment! Five minutes later, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission’s meeting room (Jēka iela 6/8, on the third floor) will launch a discussion with the Secretary of the Hungarian Prime Minister’s Office, Zoltans Kovačs, to facilitate cooperation between the parliamentary group and the Hungarian Parliament on international relations and communication. This is a rare opportunity - to give your opinion and ask questions to one of the most informed officials of the Hungarian Government. I invite all the Members and... those who have applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U202	Name to Member Uldis Budric.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U203	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! Immediately, in one or two minutes' time, in the Yellow Hall - a group of Saeima Members to facilitate cooperation with the Ukrainian Parliaments.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U204	Thank you. Colleagues, I would remind you: Fraction Council. ( The box “Who, please? ”) ) I would remind you: five minutes later, the Fragment Council. Now the name for Inese Voika to communicate the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U205	Not registered: Aldis Blumbergs, Normunds Dzintars, Ivans Klementjevs, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Ramona Petravičs, Ivans Ribakovs, Mārtiņš Šeins, who is, Jānis Vitenbergs (also available) and Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U206	Thank you. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U207	Dear colleagues, we continue after the break. And so on the agenda: the bill "Amendments to the Criminal Law". We are continuing the debate. The name of Member Eric Pucen.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U208	Hello, dear colleagues! These amendments to the criminal law should have been as urgent. It's been stupid for so long! And it can, I think, only “Unity”. And we have already tabled a call for this draft law to be declared urgent. And if one of the Members who are of “Unity” says that this cannot be done or that there is still talk or something else needs to be discussed, then I would like to remind you: the Cob's bill... One day... 62 thousand people are laid off - one day. And then don't tell me you can't do anything. I therefore call for this draft law to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U209	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. ( The ring of noise.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U210	There's too much talking, I'm not talking.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U211	I closed the debate. Is there anything to say on behalf of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U212	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to remind you that this is the draft law originally drafted by Members, which we did not support in the Commission, because the draft law had to be developed and, accordingly, an alternative draft law was drawn up. I therefore call for this draft law to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U213	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Law” tabled by Kaspars Ģirgens, Erika Pucena, Ramona Petraviča, Lubova Švekova and Māra Možvillo as a Member (No. 1289/Lp13) at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 9, for - 50, for - 8. Draft law has been rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U214	The next is the alternative draft law prepared by the Legal Commission, "Amendments to the Criminal Law", which aims exactly the same as the previous draft law, but given that it was also necessary to carry out... amendments to the Road Traffic Law, which we will see later on (presently on the agenda), were also prepared for a new draft Law of the Legal Commission, which was supported by the Legal Commission. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U215	Dear colleagues, Ten Members - Kaspars Ģirgens, Ēriks Pucens, Ieva Krapāne, Ralfs Nemiro, Viktors Valainis and others - have submitted a request for recognition of the draft alternative law drawn up by the Commission as an urgent and time-limit for the submission of proposals one day, and to provide for consideration to be held at the next sitting of the Saeima, namely the sitting of the Saeima on 16 June this year. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) We must therefore first vote in favour of declaring the draft law urgent. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law amending the Criminal Law (No. 1498/Lp13) recognition as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 12, for - 41, for - 18. The draft law is not declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U216	I call on Members to support the draft law on "Amendments to the Criminal Law" (No. 1498/Lp13). The Legal Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U217	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law amending the Criminal Law (No. 1498/Lp13) at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U218	The deadline for submitting proposals - five days, that is, 14 June.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U219	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 14 June this year. Dear colleagues, Changes to the agenda for the Bureau meeting were tabled. Members Aldis Gobzems, Jūlija Stepanenko, Karina Sprūde, Kaspars Girgens and Ieva Krapāne are asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax””. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Aldis Gobzems.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U220	Dear Latvian society! Everything is becoming more expensive, and this is what you feel in your daily expenses. When you go to work and get home from work with your private cars, you feel it; when you enter petrol tanks, you feel it; when you enter a grocery store or anywhere else. Your daily expenses have increased and continue to increase dramatically. Moreover, your daily expenses will increase much faster compared to other European countries, because there are still people who do not care about you here. What I and my colleagues offer is, in fact, something very similar to what is being done in the normal world, where governments take care of their people. I mean, it's a fuel discount. Excise duty actually... to the extent that is today, when fuel prices are rising... the State benefits because the State receives more taxes in this way. So it's good for the country if there's more inflation, more prices, everything becomes more expensive. The more expensive everything becomes, the more you can collect taxes. You're doing nothing by simply raising the price of petrol and diesel, the state's millions and millions... collects more. And it is not in solidarity with society - against pensioners, against teachers, against entrepreneurs, against any group of society... who, when entering the petrol tank this morning, sees that the 95th petrol cost two euros... and already above two euros. We offer 25 Sundays - discount per litre of fuel. In my opinion, it is high time to give such a discount. I can tell you. For those who think and those who will listen again and say that Gobzem offers something unrealistic, I will tell you a very recent past event. This has happened a few weeks ago. A few weeks ago, I was in Spain and entered the petrol tank. I put petrol at a price of 100 euros. Gasoline cost EUR 1.80, cheaper than in Latvia. I put petrol at a price of 100 euros. When I paid for petrol, I got a discount. To give EUR 100, I have 10 euros and 50 cents spent by the government on everyone who buys petrol at the service station. Every time you enter a service station, no matter how many litres of petrol you bought, you get a discount. And that is essential. This is an important support. I will not talk about support in food stores. I will not talk about the fact that everything in Latvia is very much more expensive, with smaller wages, with smaller pensions everything is completely more expensive. Latvia is the only country where the government and the existing power do not support people. I cannot understand whether this society really suffers from Stockholm syndrome, that they continue to support power that does not support them, which does not help at a difficult time. I cannot understand whether it is a servant's syndrome or any other mental illness, that it is necessary to support the master and vote in favour of a gentleman who is hurting his people, his people, day and year... and now that it becomes more difficult and harder for more and more members of Latvian society. I call for support because this would be the case for every Head of State who takes care of his people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U221	Are there any objections to the inclusion of a draft law on the agenda of the sitting? ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Please call us! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”” on the agenda of the sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation is not on the agenda of the sitting. The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption is asking for item 61 ‘Amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Support Act’ (No. 1529/Lp13) to be examined before item 29. Do Members have objections? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There are no objections. The order of business is changed. Consequently, on the agenda - reports by the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes the draft law “Amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Support Law” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers (No. 1529/Lp13) transferred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, with responsibility for the commission. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law is passed on to the Commission. We're going on with the law. Dear colleagues, The draft law “Amendments to Civil Law” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers is on the agenda (No. 1421/Lp13) at first reading and the alternative draft law on civil law submitted by the Legal Commission (No. 1500/Lp13). The rapporteur will report on both drafts and the debate will also take place on the two drafts as a whole. We will then vote, first on the draft law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, then on the draft law submitted by the Legal Commission. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Jānis Iesalnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U222	Hello, colleagues! At the moment, the Civil Law provides that in situations where, after the death of the deceased, the heirs have not remained or these heirs have not arrived or proved their right to the estate within a legal period after the publication of the disclosure of the estate, such estate of the heir shall be accepted by the State. A similar procedure is also provided for in respect of the orphan's property which remains after the expiry of the legal person. The Ministry of Justice had drafted amendments to the Civil Law, which would provide that in the cases specified by the Cabinet of Ministers such property of an heir or owner may also agree to the municipality. At present, this is often the case in practice, but it is heavy on the procedure, which most often takes several years, during which the situation of the left-on property can deteriorate significantly. After discussions in the Legal Commission, the Commission came to the conclusion that the situation, when the property of an heir or owner of property of an heir agrees with the municipality, should be established not in the Cabinet of Ministers regulations, but in the law. It is planned to establish in the law that the municipalities will be subject to certain types of real estate necessary for the exercise of municipal functions. In Latvia, it could be 50 to 100 real estate properties that meet these criteria. Taking into account that the change in the concept of the draft law significantly changes the structure and annotation of amendments to the law, the Commission decided to create an alternative draft law. Therefore, on behalf of the Legal Commission, please reject the draft law “Amendments to Civil Law” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers (No. 1421/Lp13).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U223	Please call me! We will vote on the draft law “Amendments to Civil Law” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers (No. 1421/Lp13)! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft law has been rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U224	On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call for support to be given to the alternative draft law drafted by the Legal Commission "Amendments to Civil Law" (No. 1500/Lp13) at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U225	Please call me! We will vote on the draft law "Amendments to Civil Law" drafted by the Legal Commission (No. 1 500/Lp13) first reading support! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U226	The deadline for submitting proposals for second reading is one month or July 9.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U227	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 9 July this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U228	Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees”. This draft law provides for the possibility for companies to obtain a re-extension of the tax period. During the Covid-19 pandemic, aid in the form of deferred tax payments was available to companies. Although the pandemic is rumours, not all companies affected by the pandemic have recovered to a pre- pandemic level, making it difficult for them to meet their past obligations. Therefore, we create the possibility for companies to claim an extension of the period for payment of taxes. The extension will be granted on the basis of strict criteria and individual assessment. The draft law also provides for the possibility of creating accounts for the income of economic activities to be expanded. Credit institutions are currently able to compile such accounts, but credit institutions are not taking this opportunity to do so. The State Joint Stock Company Latvijas Pasts has shown interest in providing such a service to its customers. The specific draft law provides for an extension of the range of institutions that will be entitled to offer this service to their customers. The Commission calls for the draft law to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U229	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U230	The Commission supported the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U231	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U232	Deadline for submission of proposals - 13 June at 5 p.m., consideration by the Saeima at its sitting - 16 June.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U233	Thank you. Working on the proposals - 13 June by 5 p.m. - Saeima at its meeting on 16 June this year. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Law on Scientific Activities’, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Member Linda Medne.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U234	Hello, colleagues! We are working on the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Scientific Activities (No. 1357/Lp13) for second reading. In that draft law, we have examined 14 proposals at the Education, Culture and Science Commission. 1. - A editorial proposal from the Legal Bureau. The eighth paragraph of Article 10 shall be provided as Article 10.2.1. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U235	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U236	2. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. The Director of the Council of Science of Latvia is appointed and dismissed by the Minister of Education and Science for a term of five years. The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U237	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U238	3. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Provision shall be made for the words ‘by invitation to tender’ to be excluded from the third paragraph of Article 14. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U239	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U240	4. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It is foreseen to provide in Article 16(7) that the Latvian Scientific Council is competent to provide opinions on doctoral programmes submitted for licensing. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U241	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U242	5. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It is planned to express paragraph 5 of Article 11 of the draft law in such a way that the university is registered in the register of scientific institutions if it implements international cooperation in the field of science in addition to other criteria. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U243	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U244	6. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. The second paragraph of Section 29 is intended to read as follows: “The Council of Science of Latvia shall have the right to verify the authenticity of the information and documents submitted to the Register. [...]” is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U245	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U246	7. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. It is planned to state paragraph 5 of Section 32, first paragraph, that a scientific institution shall also be excluded from the register if the founder or scientific institution has not provided the necessary information within six months of the written request of the Ministry of Education and Science or the Council of Science of Latvia. The Commission's proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U247	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U248	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It is envisaged to clarify the first sentence of the first paragraph of Article 37.2 by providing that a scientific institution registered in the register of scientific institutions shall be entitled to invite foreigners to participate in projects implemented by it who have an appropriate higher education or a doctoral degree. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U249	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U250	9. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It is planned to state paragraph 4 of Section 42(2) of the Law in such a way that, in addition to other information, the National Information System for Scientific Activities also includes the Information System for Administration of Scientific Activities projects. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U251	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U252	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It is envisaged to supplement the second paragraph of Article 42 by providing that, in addition to other information, the National Information System for Scientific Activities shall also include information on competitions for the post of Director of Scientific Institutions and competitions for academic posts in scientific institutions. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U253	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U254	11. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. The third paragraph of Article 42 is intended to read as follows: ‘The information system for the management of a research project shall include: details of calls for projects for scientific activities announced; applications for projects for scientific activities; expert opinions on projects for scientific activities; details of funding allocated or attracted to projects for scientific activities (hall noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) ; details of the persons involved in the implementation and administration of the research projects...’ The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U255	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U256	12. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. The fifth paragraph of Article 42 is provided as follows: ‘The data of the national scientific activity information system shall be made publicly available online on the website of this information system...’. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U257	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U258	13. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. The first paragraph of Article 15 of the law, which provided for a transitional framework for provisions that do not currently require a period of entry into force, is repealed. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U259	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U260	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It shall be provided to supplement the transitional provisions by a paragraph stating that amendments to Articles 24, 26 and 42 of this Law shall enter into force on 1 August 2022. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U261	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U262	The Commission for Education, Culture and Science has supported the draft law for second reading. We ask the Saeima to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U263	Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Scientific Activities! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U264	The deadline for proposals is five days, or 14 June.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U265	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 14 June this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U266	In the Legal Commission we worked with the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” (No. 1323/Lp13). ( The drug is noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U267	Colleagues! Colleagues, Colleagues! We're working!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U268	In total 72 proposals were considered...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U269	We don't bother you? ( Milestones.) Those who are disturbed can get out of the room because we're working here. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U270	... mainly related to the improvement of the law. 1. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U271	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U272	2. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U273	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U274	3. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U275	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U276	4. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U277	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U278	5. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U279	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U280	6. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported and included in proposal 8.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U281	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U282	7. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported and included in proposal 8.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U283	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U284	8 / 8 - The legal commission's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U285	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U286	9. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U287	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U288	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U289	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U290	11. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U291	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U292	12. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U293	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U294	13. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U295	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U296	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U297	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U298	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U299	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U300	16. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U301	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U302	17. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U303	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U304	18. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U305	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U306	19. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U307	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U308	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U309	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U310	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U311	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U312	22. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U313	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U314	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U315	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U316	24. - Andrey Judin's proposal. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U317	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U318	Colleagues! Last year, just a year ago, we supported the amendments to the law that resolved the problem of the good-believer and precisely with regard to the so-called Wilipson case. But we have a number of good - faith winners. Over the course of the year, we have talked to experts and we understand that other persons who are in other situations must also be cared for. I tabled a proposal to keep this up to date. The essence of the proposal is to prepare, to draft a law that would provide compensation. But the Legal Bureau pointed out that it was possible to deal with the situation differently - better. I did not ask for my proposal to be supported, but I do not have that need, but I have a great request to support the proposal 72 proposed by the Legal Office. If this proposal is supported, then we can... I hope that this year the Ministry will be able to develop a solution and we will be able to move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U319	I closed the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U320	On behalf of the Commission, I can add that in the Commission the idea of the need for such regulation was conceptually accepted by Members. At the same time, it should be noted that in order to implement this provision of the law prepared by the Member Andrejs Judins it is necessary to provide both the state budget resources and to prepare other binding legal acts. Given that this is a labour-intensive process, this proposal cannot be supported at present. Therefore, the Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U321	Nor is the vote requested. Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U322	25. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U323	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U324	26. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U325	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U326	27. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U327	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U328	28. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U329	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U330	29. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U331	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U332	30. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U333	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U334	31. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U335	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U336	32. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U337	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U338	33. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U339	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U340	34. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U341	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U342	35. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U343	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U344	36. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U345	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U346	37. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U347	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U348	38. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Partly supported and included 39. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U349	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U350	39. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U351	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U352	40. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U353	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U354	41. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U355	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U356	42. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U357	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U358	43. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U359	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U360	44. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U361	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U362	45. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U363	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U364	46. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U365	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U366	47. - Andrey Judin's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U367	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U368	48. - Andrey Judin's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U369	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U370	49. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U371	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U372	50. - Andrey Judin's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U373	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U374	51. - Andrey Judin's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U375	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U376	52. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U377	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U378	53. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U379	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U380	54. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U381	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U382	55. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U383	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U384	56. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U385	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U386	57. - the proposal of Ombudsman Jur Janson. Partly supported and included 58. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U387	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U388	58. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U389	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U390	59. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U391	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U392	60. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U393	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U394	61. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U395	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U396	62. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U397	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U398	63. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U399	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U400	64. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U401	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U402	65. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U403	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U404	66. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U405	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U406	67. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U407	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U408	68. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U409	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U410	69. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U411	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U412	70. - Andrey Judin's proposal. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U413	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U414	Colleagues, unfortunately, I have not managed to convince the experts at the sub-committee meeting that this proposal should be supported, but I have not lost hope and will try to tell you about the substance of the proposal. I hope that it will be clear and understandable. It is about imposing a penalty in Latvia. There are people who have committed violations outside Latvia and have been punished there. Last year there were about 40 people who suffered punishment in Latvia. So we can take over the execution of the sentence. And it has been found that there is a problem. The law has not been violated, Latvia's international obligations have been respected, but there is no justice. In particular, the situation is linked to the penalties applicable in the United Kingdom. They have a different system. What is happening in practice? A real example. A person is sentenced to 17 years of imprisonment, but the idea is that he will be released if he endures half of the punishment. So if there are no violations, there will be release. But by taking over the execution of the sentence in Latvia, we cannot take it into account. It happens that Latvia must actually endure 17 years. Of course, we have the opportunity to hope that amnesty has an opportunity for early release, but we do not have the principle in the United Kingdom that, with half the punishment, we are freed. What do I offer? I propose that at the moment when it is decided on the execution of the sentence, on the length of the sentence, simply take account of specific regulations. I don't want to be half, the way it is in Britain, or in any other way. In fact, those words are to be taken into account. What the experts say: it will not be fair, it will not be equal - if a person is punished in Latvia, he endures everything. But unfortunately, I see the problem. And there are two judgments in my hands. In one case, the lawyer has succeeded in persuading the court and, although there is no regulation, the court took the right decision, it took into account. Otherwise, the court decided - well, if it is 17 years, so that it is 17 years. And a man sits in prison. But it's not fair. We have second reading. I ask for support for my proposal so that we can be further developed before the third reading, if necessary. Unfortunately, I have only heard from experts so far a simple answer: nothing needs to be amended, everything is fine. But understand, if a British judge has thought for eight and a half years at the age of 17, but in Latvia, Iļguciems prison, a woman who has to be punished for 17 years is not right. Please support my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U415	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be explained in the name of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U416	Yeah. So we heard a number of opinions on this proposal in the Commission, and the main reason why Member Andrejs Judine's proposal was not supported... The first reason is that in Latvia courts, law enforcement authorities cannot know what practice is in each country regarding the imposition of a penalty. That was one reason. The second reason is that in Latvia we have to act in accordance with the laws that have been established in Latvia, and so that we do not find, as Andrejs Judin has already said, the inequality between those who are punished in Latvia and those who are punished abroad, and those who are punished abroad, are treated equally. Consequently, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U417	Please call me! We'll vote for 70. - Member Judea's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 10, for - 61, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U418	71. - Andrey Judin's proposal. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U419	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U420	72. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U421	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U422	We have therefore examined all the proposals. In the Commission, the draft law was approved at second reading. I also call on my colleagues to support them.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U423	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U424	The deadline for submitting proposals is one month or 9 July.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U425	Thank you. So the deadline for proposals is 9 July this year. Draft law “Law on Cultural Centres”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Ilga Šuplinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U426	Hello! Lobby dyna! Oh, my God! The Commission for Education, Culture and Science looks at the draft law “Law on Cultural Centres” (No. 41/Lp13) at second reading. By reminding a little about the history of the draft law, I would just like to say that the draft law has started to be viewed already in 2018, so it may be useful to recall that the activities of cultural centres are the only field of the cultural sector that does not have a full legal framework. That is why this special law was drafted. What is very important is that this law will not only improve and improve the activities of cultural centres in Latvia, it will also ensure governance, it will work with issues of identity, preservation of national cultural values and traditions. And what is even more important is thinking about creativity, social participation and the lifelong learning process. The Commission for Education, Culture and Science, when working on the preparation of the draft law for the second reading, has significantly consolidated the wording of the first reading of the draft law, combining the wording of the articles and essentially assessing the necessity of individual norms. As a result, 7 articles are proposed at second reading instead of 18 at first reading. 26 proposals have been received. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The title of the bill is worded as follows: ‘Law on Municipal Cultural Centres’. Taking into account that the Law on State Administration Equipment provides for the possibility to delegate certain tasks of state administration to legal or natural persons, it is necessary to extend the scope of the draft law to a range of persons performing the functions specified in Article 3 of the draft law on behalf of the State or municipality, thus ensuring equal opportunities regardless of the status of founder. The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U427	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U428	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The wording of Article 1 of the commission responsible has been taken into account, so proposal 2 has been partly supported and incorporated 3. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U429	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U430	3. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Expresses Article 1 of the law in a new version, specifying the purpose and scope of the draft law. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U431	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U432	4. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Expresses Article 2 of the draft law in its new version, which defines the legal basis for the purpose of the activities of the cultural centres by supplementing the article of the draft law with the second paragraph, which provides that the municipality shall ensure the implementation of the functions of the cultural centre in its administrative territory and at least one of the activities of the methodological cultural centre, including the provision of the necessary financial, logistical and personnel resources, as well as Article 2 with a new third paragraph laying down the procedure for the establishment, reorganisation and liquidation of the cultural centre. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U433	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U434	5. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Provision shall be made for the wording of Article 3 of the draft law in a new version, clarifying in editorial terms the functions and rights of the cultural centre, defining the rights of the cultural centre in the second paragraph of the article, and laying down the procedure for determining the status of the methodological cultural centre in the third paragraph of Article 3. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U435	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U436	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The wording of Article 6 of the commission responsible has been taken into account. The proposal is therefore partly supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U437	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U438	7. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It provides for the wording of Article 4 of the draft law in a new version, defining the competence and responsibility of the Latvian National Centre for Culture in relation to cultural centres, as well as the right to request and receive information in the field of cultural centres in order to propose targeted mechanisms to support the activities of the cultural centre. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U439	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U440	8 / 8 - a proposal from the committee responsible. Provision is made for Article 5 of the draft law to be reworded, providing that information on the functions and services provided by cultural centres is publicly provided within a single data system. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U441	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U442	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is encouraged to exclude Article 6 supported by the first reading of the draft law. The regulation of the procedure for the establishment, reorganisation and elimination of cultural centres is laid down in Article 2 of the draft law. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U443	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U444	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Expresses Article 6 of the draft law in a new version, laying down appropriate requirements for experience of education for a person who may hold the position of head of the cultural centre and the position of head of the methodological cultural centre, as well as the requirement to develop professional competence on a regular basis. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U445	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U446	11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is encouraged to exclude Article 7 of the draft law as the regulation of the legal status of the cultural centre is included in Article 2 of the draft law. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U447	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U448	12. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Article 8 of the draft law shall be terminated as incompatible with the regulation of this Law, because the law “On Municipalities” establishes the procedure for drawing up and approving regulations of municipal institutions and bodies. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U449	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U450	13. - a proposal from the committee responsible. In order not to impose an additional administrative burden on municipalities and cultural centres, the Commission's proposal provides for the exclusion of Article 9 of the draft law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U451	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U452	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Like in the previous proposal, in order not to create an additional administrative burden, it is requested to exclude Article 10 of the draft law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U453	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U454	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Article 11 of the draft law is to be excluded as its provisions are already contained in Article 3 of the draft law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U455	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U456	16. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Article 12 of the draft law is to be excluded as its provisions are included in Articles 2 and 3. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U457	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U458	17. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The wording of Article 7 drawn up by the commission responsible has been taken into account. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U459	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U460	18. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Defines the responsibility of the founders in the financing of cultural centres, as well as possibilities for cultural centres to receive state funding in the form of targeted grants. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U461	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U462	19. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Article 14 of the draft law on the technical basis of cultural centres, which is already contained in Articles 2 and 7, is to be excluded. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U463	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U464	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Hints to rule out Article 15. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U465	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U466	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Article 15 of the draft law is foreseen to be completely excluded as it is already, in substance, contained in Article 6. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U467	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U468	22. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is encouraged to exclude Article 16, first paragraph, point 3 of the draft law. Partly supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U469	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U470	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Article 16 of the draft law is foreseen to be completely excluded, as in substance the regulation is included in Articles 4 and 7 of the draft law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U471	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U472	24. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Article 17 of the draft law is excluded as its provisions are already contained in Articles 2 and 7. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U473	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U474	25. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is proposed to exclude as non-compliant Article 18 of the draft law, which provides for the possibility for cultural centres to cooperate with international organisations of cultural and cultural workers. This does not require such regulation. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U475	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U476	Last - 26. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The transitional provisions provide that the head of the methodological centre and the head of the cultural centre, who currently does not have the appropriate education provided for in Article 6 of this Law, may continue to work until 31 December 2026, as well as the work may continue without adequate education those managers of the methodological cultural centre and cultural centres who will remain five years or less until reaching the pensionable age on 31 December 2026. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U477	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U478	All 26 proposals have been examined. I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U479	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law on the second reading "Law on Cultural Centres"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U480	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 14 June.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U481	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 14 June this year. Draft law “Law on the transparency of representation of interests”, second reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U482	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Sitting viewers and listeners! The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption has examined at second reading the draft law “Law on Transparency of Interest Representatives”. Together, we discussed over 140 proposals, including from NGOs, in several meetings of the Commission. The result is 41 proposals, most editorial. 1. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. The term ‘representation of interests’ is clarified and supplemented. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U483	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U484	2. - Commission proposal. Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U485	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U486	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, This, second, proposal and all the proposals we are looking at today move us closer to 13. In the Saeima, we would adopt a long-awaited law on the transparency of interest representation, which, we very much hope, will promote public confidence in public decision-making. The work between the first and second readings in the Commission and the additional working groups was as intense as the preparation of this draft law, which, I remind you, we have formed here in the Saeima, expressing the political will that the openness of lobbying must be. Together with partners from the executive and civil society, we have now achieved a greater understanding of the definitions covered by the draft law, of what is the representation of interests, and of what is not. And we have discussed in particular the system of declaration of interests, because we wanted to follow the principle in our work, and we have stopped to do so, so that we should have the law after it came into force...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U487	Mrs. Voika! Mrs Voika, could you, please, talk about the specific proposal that you have applied for.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U488	... It would be more open, because it's about... Proposal No 2 concerns the definition of what is and not the disclosure of interests. Accordingly, in the course of our work, and in the future, we will be better able to understand and see the system that, with the entry into force, will give us a common good understanding of the best solutions that we have been able to achieve with our partners. So I ask you to support proposal 2 as well as the other proposals in the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U489	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, which is still to be added to this proposal, 2?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U490	The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U491	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U492	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Clarifying and supplementing the provision. Partially supported, included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U493	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U494	4. - The proposal from Member Voika. It is envisaged to add one of the points explaining what is not the representation of interests. Partially supported, included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U495	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U496	5. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U497	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U498	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U499	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U500	7. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The norm shall be editorially specified. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U501	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U502	8 / 8 - Commission proposal. Editable. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U503	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U504	9. - Commission proposal. One of the points explaining what is not interest representation is clarified and supplemented. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U505	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U506	The same is true of 10. - a proposal of a editorial nature. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U507	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U508	11. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U509	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U510	Also 12. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U511	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U512	13. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Supported by 15. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U513	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U514	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Inese Voika (The Hall of Noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) Proposal for a Regulation of the It is envisaged to clarify the term ‘interest agent’. Partially supported, included 15. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U515	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U516	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. The term ‘interest agent’ shall be specified. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U517	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U518	16. - The proposal from Member Voika. Explanation of the interpretation of the concept. Partially supported, included 17. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U519	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U520	17. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Explanation of the concept. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U521	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U522	18. - The proposal from Member Voika. Partially supported, included 19. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U523	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U524	19. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. The term ‘public decision’ shall be clarified. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U525	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U526	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U527	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U528	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U529	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U530	22. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partially supported, included 23. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U531	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U532	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Commission proposal. Explanation of the norm. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U533	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U534	24. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U535	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U536	25. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U537	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U538	26. - The proposal from Member Voika. Editable. Partially supported, included 31. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U539	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U540	Also 27. - The proposal from Member Voika. Editable. Partially supported, included 31. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U541	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U542	28. - The proposal from Member Voika. Editable. Partially supported, included 31. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U543	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U544	29. - The proposal from Member Voika. Partially supported, included 31. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U545	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U546	30. - The proposal from Member Voika. Partially supported, included 31. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U547	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U548	31. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. It shall be provided that the particulars to be entered in the register and their volume are regulated. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U549	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U550	32. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Provides a regulation on recording in the register... the form for the activities of the registry authority. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U551	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U552	33. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. A framework shall be established for the operation of the system of declaration of interest and the particulars to be published in the system. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U553	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U554	34. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U555	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U556	35. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U557	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U558	36. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U559	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U560	37. - The proposal by Member Inese Voika. Partially supported, included 38. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U561	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U562	38. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Improved Article 6(2) as a whole. In view of the above, the Commission was also in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U563	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U564	39. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Editable. The duties and operational limitations of the public representative shall be specified. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U565	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U566	40. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U567	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U568	41. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Editable. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U569	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U570	I call on the Saeima to support the second reading of the draft law on the transparency of interest representation.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U571	Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law “Law on the transparency of representation of interests”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U572	The deadline for submitting proposals is 2 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U573	September?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U574	September.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U575	Thank you. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 2 September this year. Draft law “Amendment to law on the application of educational measures to children”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U576	In the Legal Commission we considered the draft law “Amendment to the law “On the Application of Educational Forms to Children”” (No. 1495/Lp13). The aim of the draft law is to suspend the application of a protective measure of a nature - insertion in a social correction educational institution - until 31 December 2024. The suspension of the application of this educational measure is necessary to ensure the reform of the institution of social correction, including the revision and improvement of the regulatory framework regarding the introduction of an educational measure - social correction at the institution of education. The draft law also has two accompanying draft laws - “Amendment to the Criminal Procedure Law” and “Amendment to the Criminal Law” - which we will see next, but when we look at this draft law, it was supported by the Commission... I am sorry when the draft law was examined by the Commission and found it urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U577	Colleagues, does anyone want to talk about the granting of urgency? No, so. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the law on the application of educational measures to children”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U578	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, This is an excellent example of poor quality legislation. There are no doubts about the application of educational measures to children in the country, but in the Legal Commission, when discussing these proposals, when listening to the Latvian Municipal Union, when listening to representatives of the Ombudsman's Office, representatives of the State Police, we hear real questions that there are no answers. We say that we want to end one thing in the country, shut down, but we have not created an alternative. No, it will be a duty for municipalities! Has the Municipal Union sat at one table with the Ministry of Education and Science and reached an agreement, or has there been such a qualitative discussion about it? No, it's not. The managers of the institution in question may learn from the media about this possible closure - that is right? For municipalities, we have taken out funding (with "we" thinking government), we want to impose new functions, the alternative is not created. Colleagues, we create serious problems with this particular draft law and its accompanying draft laws, yes, for a small part of Latvian society, thank God, for a small! There are not so many of these children who need such coercion... actually be in the educational establishment, including at the same time be in the accounting... police records. Colleagues, I really advise you - listen to what we are talking about in the Legal Commission, listen to what questions were asked by people from local governments; who had been promised until this draft law came to the Saeima and what we can actually see in the current text. We are also doing so as a matter of urgency. On the contrary, there was no need for urgency. This draft law must be returned, there must be an urgent meeting of the working group - the Union of Local Governments of Latvia, the Association of the Great Cities of Latvia, experts, representatives of the State Police, representatives of the Ombudsman's Office - and this issue should be dealt with qualitatively. There must be an objective, qualitative alternative, not simply a flag ahead - we will now liquidate one school. It's not smart, nor do I think it's legal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U579	The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U580	Colleagues, I spoke about this draft law last time I was referred to the commission. I listened (Stop the glass. Impressions. (Laughter) ... I'm sorry, yeah. So, my fellow Members, I have pointed out the compulsion of educational measures. ( Milestones.) I am talking about the problem, I have listened to the audio record of the Commission, and unfortunately I do not see that the problem has been addressed. Thus, there is the law ‘On the application of educational measures to children’. These products can be applied to children between 11 and 18 years of age. Criminal liability ranges from 14 to 18 years. Then we have children between the ages of 11 and 13 and 14 who can only be forced by educational measures are not criminalised. In my memory, there is one case where a group of persons, a group of children, committed rape - 13 for one, 15 for the other; one has a criminal sentence, and the other has an educative means. A similar case was, not rape, but murder, where the 13 - year - old was involved. Where is the problem... What does this law offer? This law offers to eliminate our only educational... the only institution where social correction is taking place, the “Nusks”. Until 1 January 2025, we will not have any institutions. The question I want to understand is: what happens if a 12, 13-year-old child does something terrible? What's going to happen to her? And what answer do I hear? Well, we also have other educative means of coercion. That's right. What are the following means (reading): “Set out a warning. To impose an obligation to apologize, to give a guarantee to parents, to impose an obligation to prevent the consequences of damage caused by their work, to impose behavioural restrictions, to impose an obligation to carry out public work.” Colleagues! If your child has done something very serious, you have to work with him. And it is right that these children do not need to be concentrated. It is right that we want to abolish the Naukšensian authority because there are huge problems there. But there is the question: what will happen in these two and a half years? How and who will work with them? It is the intention that the municipal employees will do so. On what basis? If this child... after murder or rape... If he or his parents say they want to leave, they can leave? Will there be some work, or something will happen... Is that so? I am concerned that we are not solving the problem to the end of the day. I support this draft law. I supported its urgency. And now I will vote in favour of this draft law. But I ask my colleagues to think about it. The problem was left at the beginning: this institution was transferred - and it is still - to the Ministry of Education and Science. It is necessary to understand that complex children need to work with specialists, so logically it would be under the supervision of the Ministry of Justice. And I allow that to happen. I'm just embarrassing because it's supposed that we're going to think about how best to do that over two and a half years. Colleagues, I call for support for this draft law. I also call on the Ministry of Justice - above all the Ministry of Justice! - think about the amendments... I am sorry about the proposals that could improve this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U581	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U582	Madam President, colleagues. It is difficult not to agree with all the arguments of my colleague, Mr Judine, which have in fact already been put forward. I'd like to say that, at present, it's just... The party must take on the real responsibility of starting politicians for breaking up one system, but you do not put anything in place. There is nothing to put in place in this bill, too. At this point, you were a little bit bit bit biting your kids out, thinking they were fluffy bunny and didn't know how the specialists were working on them. You achieved that specialists also refused to participate in the process. You're a bit... you didn't listen to and figure out how to work with educators, nor did you provide support to educators. And at this point... I have to agree with Mr Judine that one particular group of children remains without support. Well, it's just a single-party decision, but there's nothing in the system instead. In a similar way, you also have to take responsibility for the fact that the State Children's Rights Protection Inspectorate, when fulfilling a certain request or perhaps a good idea, has not, to a certain extent, done anything professionally, so that in this system, which is an education system, together with a legal protection system... children of this type would receive support, both professional and educational, as well as humane. At this point you have an empty, broken field... with the beginning of the pomposes about a year ago, but there is no real investment, and this bill does not provide a solution to the consequences of the broken field either. One-party-- You should now be proposing normal legislative proposals to support a certain group of children. And in no case can this probably be resolved urgently, because the proposals and draft law do not provide a solution. I urge you to say honestly: yes, we are responsible and will encourage such a group of children to find professional support, a professional solution in the 21st century, not... as it is now. I think you have to admit your mistake, and then you would be politicians, not single-party politicians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U583	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U584	I would like to agree with the Member, Andrejs Judine, that children need an individual approach and work with everyone on their own. And if you're talking about this social correction education institution "Nauskens", which has about ten or a little more children, then... In fact, we see that unfortunately, although I would try, this individual approach in this institution to these children cannot be ensured for one reason: it is impossible to attract specialists of this level to this place. And by concentrating these children together, the situation is definitely not improving, because these children together... they, as I don't even know, feel more... they have confidence in what they may or may not do, thereby endangering the staff present at this social correction educational establishment. This, in turn, is a transitional solution that, until the end of 2024, until it is developed what to do, is actually... Given that these are just a little more than ten children... Local governments already have insights into how to work with people of different kinds of social groups, so also with children. And it would be an obligation for every municipality to develop, in principle, a procedure for working with children who need some kind of help. That is why there are also these amendments to the law, which I hope the municipalities will take into account, even though the municipalities... At the Commission meeting, the local authorities did not want to take up their responsibilities and wanted to... They simply said: “To the counselor. Working group... Sometime later we'll figure out, now we don't." But the municipalities have long had such an opportunity - to do so, to solve this and to develop the order, and they already have the employees. Just employees could be given additional responsibilities - to work with the particular child. And given that there are only a little more than ten children and the number of municipalities in Latvia is higher, it actually happens that not even in all municipalities should perform these duties. Only in the municipalities from which these children come. So I call for support in order to find the best solution in the future, by 2025, and for the local authorities to be able to show themselves from the right, as they have done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U585	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U586	Dear colleagues, It is unlikely that there will be many Members who would have been in the Naujos or who have been in some way familiar with their situation. It's true to Mr. Judina, the only institution... According to Mr Judine, however, I do not really understand why Mr Judine will continue to vote in favour of the further progress of this draft law. What is important is to say that 1 July 2022 is what this draft law refers to as the date after which children will no longer be placed in these institutions. Where they're going to -- there's no answer. In my opinion, Mr Judine and many speakers have previously explained the seriousness of the situation. And if we look at the municipalities, then, forgive me, hope that the teachers themselves will handle it and that the municipalities will deal with it... This will unfortunately not happen in life. I think this is a good example of how the Saeima should not work. It is now proposed to abolish the institution on the basis of the draft law tabled by the Members, without any calculations; on the basis of the assumptions that everything will be fine: that the municipalities will manage it, that it will not create any - no - for the municipalities! - financial expenditure, that all this will be of free mind, of good will. And all those discussions that should, by their very nature, take place at the Ministry of Education and Science or at the Ministry of Justice... Well, generally in a government where this alternative model should already be absolutely clear, so that everyone is aware of what will happen... We offer to eliminate the institution by July 1, to ban the placing of children there. And situations that can arise - and situations like this can happen! - Just hang in the air until 2024. Well, a “genial” bill, colleagues! All this is written in this bill. 2022, nowhere... In that institution we are no longer doing so, the solution will be until 2024. So, two years... “Good” legislative work! And that's both offered by the Saeima. And that's what you're going to decide about. Colleagues, I call on you not to support this draft law and to ask the ministries to develop a clear, understandable model. There are problems - there are problems! - but at the moment Members are bypassing the system of public administration - submit a bill straight to the Saeima. But you can see that their bill... no words have been written in it by those Members who have signed it. No words! I am convinced of that. The normal process of government, the draft law thrown into it, and the government does not want to discuss these issues. It's uncomfortable... Of course, it's uncomfortable who likes to talk about it?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, But you have to do your homework all the time before we go on. This work has not been done at the moment. I call for this draft law to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U587	The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U588	Hello, leader of the Saeima! Hello, colleagues! I am pleased that the Saeima will complement, even at a late moment, the members involved in the experience of municipalities - with Members who will know what this draft law means for municipalities. I have had the honour of chairing the Social Affairs Committee in my municipality since 2009. And many times we had to face cases when such children came to our attention. Yes, “Scarfs” is not any glasses. ‘ This is a terrible institution. Why such an institution has been created - it should certainly be asked by the Ministry of Education and Science, which should monitor and direct it. Either lack of knowledge or no sense at all about what this institution is doing! Such ignorance has created a situation where this institution has become, if not a prison, a torture institution. That must be recognised, that is the case. That's what happens. Colleagues! There are several things that, of course, should be heard by Mr. Neighbours, but he is busy... Now that we send these children to the municipality, we decide them for a very difficult fate. If this institution, with its budget, could not attract the relevant specialists, then local authorities have even fewer opportunities to attract these specialists to work with their children. Only people who have never worked in a municipality that has never been faced with the situation that social services, employees and so on have to face. Social service workers have already been recharged with various functions that they should not fulfil, but which the state has successfully built up, including the distribution of benefits in situations of co-ordination, various assessments that the social service does not have to carry out. Unfortunately, all of this is now in the sight of the social services. I have worked with social service workers and I have been in a number of situations where really... In the family, too, these children live in very terrible circumstances. ‘ It is one of those institutions that do not lag far behind this situation, even though it is a little better here - at least eating, being warm, having at least some civilised surroundings, how much it can be considered civilised. Colleagues! I think that this draft law is unthinkable both from a national and from a municipal point of view. I urge you to reject it and think carefully. These are the children who are there... All right, ten, but every municipality to which these children will now have to comply with this decision is not ready to work with them either now or in three or five years. If you can't attract children psychologists to municipalities right now, then what are we talking about?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This is a special category - specialists needed to work with these children. It's not a joke! These are already, well, to some extent... young criminals. Without working with them, these people, these children, will become hardened criminals. At the moment, too, its institution - the Naujoks - is doing nothing to bring about some kind of discipline, absolutely nothing. First of all, just because... the failure of the ministry to act. Secondly, because there is no funding. And thirdly, there is a lack of such specialists in Latvia who are able to work with these children. Colleagues, I call once again on you to listen and to those who have experience in the work of municipalities in particular. Let us not allow this madness that we give children, decide them for an unknown future, for an unknown destiny. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U589	Mr. Tawar, you're going to have enough two and a half minutes, will you speak after a break? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Tatar’s Intersentence.) That's enough? Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U590	Colleagues! It's very short. Once again, no one is denying that there are problems with the Naujos. Nobody denys it! The people who have been there and who have visited this body - we can name it - understand that there is a need for improvement; that there is a need for reform. But the specific draft law is now... in that version... does not solve this, all the more so because there are those two years in the middle, for which absolutely nothing is clear. And if the commission... yours (I am addressing Development/About!) ) in the supervised home affairs field... responsible State Police... asks serious questions about the whole process, and therefore about two further, accompanying draft laws - amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law and amendments to the Criminal Law... they have serious questions, this initiative has not been discussed with them. The new Conservative Party, let us support your next draft law that you will be with the local authorities... because representatives of local governments from the Latvian Local Government Union, representatives of the Committee on Health and Social Affairs, indicate... and actually call alarm calls because they understand the social crisis approaching the country. If we are still asking for additional issues - which is absolutely out of place at the moment - it is wrong. They also have no clarity about the methodology... There is no answer for many things. Just like the Ombudsman. Therefore, colleagues, it is really not a question of a political climate here at the moment. This draft law needs to be recast, and if the new conservative party comes with an opinion that will not at least be opposed by the local government, the State Police (for which the party “Development/Par!” is responsible. ) and the Ombudsman’s Office... I think the whole opposition will also be supported. After all, it is about Latvia and these children, who are in a very tragic situation (thank God, they are not many). But I call for this particular draft law to be put to the vote without voting or for it to be redesigned and to come back again - already in another quality - here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U591	Colleagues! The debate will obviously continue after a break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name Inese Voika to report the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U592	Colleagues! Not registered: Arvils Aseradens, Aldis Blumbergs, Normunds Dzintars, Artuss Kaimiņš (Dep. A. Neighbours: ‘Yes!’ )... Artuss Nemiņš is there, Ivan Klementjevs, Atis Lejiņš (Dep. A. Lewis: ‘Yes!’ )... yes, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Regina Ločmele, Ralf Nemiro, Ramona Petraviča, Ivans Ribakovs, Jānis Vucāns, Gatis Zamurs and Evita Zālīte-Gross, which... Yes.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U593	Thank you. Interruption until 3.30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U594	Dear colleagues, We are continuing the debate on the draft law on the amendment to the law on the application of educational measures to children. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U595	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I thank all those colleagues who have spoken about this draft law today. The thing is, I'm not a member of the Education, Culture and Science Commission. As they have spoken, it has given me the opportunity to read carefully the annotation of this draft law. And it raises at least two questions: it raises the question of the general approach, and it raises the question of the possible consequences of this draft law. Let's start with a general approach, colleagues. Let's... Let's imagine we're in some time in one of our countries... having regard to political responsibility, will there be prisons... in one of our country's prisons, there is a lack of staff in prison - whether there's a community, pay issues, something else. People in this particular prison... or even prison workers no longer want to work in these prisons. There may also be one test: someone finds that the chief of the prison has committed some serious violations and that he no longer has the right to work with prisoners. What to do? A group of Members proposes that the prison be closed for four years and that prisoners be sent home or to municipalities or somewhere else. ( Internouncing call.) I know, I say, imagine. Let us take another example. Let's take school, for example. A school lacks teachers. Lack of teachers - low pay, hard work. What to do? A group of Members shall submit a draft law for four years to close the school. I hope, colleagues, that its parallel is visible and understandable. For the eleven... How long it is... 14 or 15 young people who are or should be in that social correction institution - the court decided to place them in a social correction institution, namely isolate. We do not know why the court ruled this way, but it is likely that these were serious, notable reasons. The proposal to close this institution is not because the Ministry would have decided that those reasons were not as serious as the court thought, and not because this social correction did not work as such, but because, as can be seen from annotation, the reasons are that there is in fact no one working in that institution. I understood that - their annotation: the shortage of employees. That is why there is such a big question about this approach as a precedent. That is indeed a precedent. The second issue is, of course, the possible consequences. As I said, there were serious reasons why the court decided to place young people in the institution. Now there is a proposal to send these young people home or to municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen, as they say (Treasury taps the pub.) , don't give God if any of these young people do something in a few months' time, something serious will do - something serious that is already being sent not to social adjustment, but to more serious institutions. When this happens, those questions will be asked. All this will go back to why this particular young man or youth... Why did he have the opportunity to do this, why did he not find himself where the court decided he needed to be... in social correction and so on? And the real trails will lead to this particular Saeima sitting and to the decision of the Members concerned. Right, colleagues? I hope this will not happen, but it could happen. So, colleagues, I ask you to think again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U596	Name to Member Janis Butan for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U597	Yes, I have heard many different opinions, my fellow Members, and one of the opinions, where all Members agree in principle: that this institution is a terrible institution in the Naukens, so terrible that children should certainly not be there. A terrible, terrible institution. And I agree - perhaps it's really terrible. I'll be honest about it, I haven't been there, I don't know so well, but when you hear what everyone says, things of danger are really happening there. Last year, the media also reported how terrible the children were, how they were being treated there, how they were pressured and so on. But what I hear from some of the Members is that the institution is terrible, but let us keep them in this institution because it's safe to be insecure... I don't know what we're gonna do with them... so they stay in this terrible institution. For my part, I can say that when I look at this bill in the commission and talk about it, I've heard from experts that specifically such a punishment measure today... it's not modern, it's rarely practiced... Well, little. There are other ways to deal with these children. So it's already on the way towards having given a task to their transitional period... that is the maximum time limit; in fact, it is possible to draw up their time limit more quickly - when it comes to how to act more correctly then. So one would have already been done. The second is that if it does not support this draft law, it will actually continue to work for at least one year. It'll only be possible again in a year's time... because a period of school year has been set, where is the summer holiday, when those children... so they understand where they are, how to live... This is the most appropriate time to close down such an institution. Otherwise, if we do not take this decision, we are continuing to address the problem for a year. What's going to happen in a year's time? A year later, we will say again: we have no idea, let's think for another year or two, or else, I don't know how long. At the end of the day, it will be the terrible institution where children are worst, the worse they can't be, that will continue to work. There is a need for action to achieve this, and one way of doing this is through the specific adoption of regulations. Whether a better solution is possible... I personally can call on Members who really have such an interest to attend a meeting of the Legal Commission, where there will be a debate on how best to act during this transitional period - until 2024. I personally call for support for this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U598	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U599	Yes, Mr. Butan, it was interesting to hear from you. As the first signatory to this bill... you have signed a bill about a place where you have not been before, but are guided by assumptions. And again. One child here costs EUR 2900 per month (at least according to publicly available information). This is the cost of one child. With such resources, I think it would be only normal if the Ministry of Education and Science, which you are politically managing, the Ministry of Justice, which you are politically managing, created a clear, understandable mechanism to spend these resources better, how to channel these resources either to municipalities or whatever... figure out this new mechanism. What you are offering - you are not offering to close this institution this year, you are offering that, as of July, children will no longer be placed in this institution. That's what you're offering. What we are asking for is that we are asking for a solution from the beginning, which will happen to them, and then we are deciding to close the institution. Everything's going on with your feet in the air right now. I do not understand that approach. You were four years old at the Saeima - four years old at the Saeima was a job! - You could work on this three years ago if it was so important. Now, before the elections, you come with such a proposal without offering a concrete solution. Just close because we close because we want it, we're bypassing the government. Colleagues, I call for this draft law to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U600	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U601	Dear colleagues, Some remarks. Note 1: Today's debate is very clear about the fact that urgency cannot be the basis for legislation. Urgency is only an exception to legislation as a system. Note 2: The logic of the applicants is very simple: if there is dust in the apartment, if there is dirt in the apartment, then there are two options: either to resort to the introduction of cleanliness, or to close this apartment and look for another solution to place the inhabitants of the apartment. Third. Any situation... there is a specific situation here as a problem that has been tried with legislative methods. If there is a particular problem, it would be very good to imitate this situation. Let us assume - as a model - that on 1 July this terrible institution will be knocked on. And then the question arises. They're not enough... 10 guys and girls put there. Everyone has a name. Everyone is placed there from a particular place of residence, and there, according to the idea of the applicants, they should return. Is that still the place? Is there a place to put them? Are there people, concrete people, not abstract social workers, but people with names, names and positions who will deal with them? What's next? Who will feed them, who will feed them? And so on. Consequently, the solution does not lead to immediate, immediate or far-reaching effects. And the last one. Unfortunately, the last two years showed that thousands of children, students, have been isolated. They all need psychological advice today. They need help... thousands... in rehabilitation, because these two years of isolation changed children, changed emerging people, growing people. And that is a huge problem that, unfortunately, nobody is doing today, because we are dealing with a concrete, immediate solution that does not have any effect. I think it would be fair today to reject this bill and to take action to solve the problem with the best consciousness. And maybe the first step is to put in place a procedure for the "sands". Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U602	Name to Member Uldis Augums.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U603	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I have had the opportunity to be “Naukšenās” at the time because the government had the idea of whether it was an educational institution, whether it was a social educational institution, or whether it was more like an institution under the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice. And if you have imagined that they are children, just children, then, yes, they are children after the year of birth, but after their actions and actions, and their behaviors - not close to it. So, if there's no solution right now, what to do with these kids after 1 July... because the classic social worker in the municipality or the head of the orphan's court or the orphan's officer will not be able to deal with such children simply will not be able. And as long as there is no solution in what way we do this redrawing, this must not be done, because otherwise we will threaten our peers who will be near or in the vicinity of, or adults. I call on my fellow Members, until this issue is fully debated and action is understood, not to support such a draft law and, as Mr Dolgopolova said, I call for the same Naukšens to be arranged, perhaps to seek more modern, younger, better solutions for how we can bring these so-called children up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U604	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U605	On behalf of the Commission, I can only add that the Commission supported the draft law and called on colleagues to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U606	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the law on the application of educational measures to children”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 40, for - 30, for - 1. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for proposals and the time to review the draft law at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U607	The deadline for submitting proposals is 13 June at 12 noon.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U608	And consideration of the Saeima sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U609	Review - the Saeima on 16 June.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U610	Thank you. Deadline for proposals - 13 June by 12.00 a.m., consideration - meeting of the Saeima on 16 June. Draft law “Amendment to Criminal Procedure Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U611	The Legal Commission also examined the related draft law “Amendment to the Criminal Procedure Law” (No. 1496/Lp13), who in the Criminal Procedure Law supplements the transitional provisions with paragraphs 80 and 81, which lay down the time limits when the relevant security measure is not applied. The Commission was examined and found to be urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U612	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Criminal Procedure Law” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 55, it's against - 22, it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U613	In the Commission, the draft law was supported. I call on my colleagues to support them.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U614	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Criminal Procedure Law” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 53, for - 22, for - 1. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U615	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 13 June at 12.00, consideration - 16 June sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U616	Thank you. Deadline for proposals - 13 June by 12.00 a.m., consideration by the Saeima at its sitting - 16 June this year. Draft law on the amendment to the Criminal Law, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U617	This draft law, too - Amendment to the Criminal Law (No. 1497/Lp13) - is related to the previous draft law and intends to supplement the Criminal Law with paragraph 29 of the Transitional Provisions by stating that the second paragraph of Article 66.2 shall not apply until 31 December 2024. The Commission was examined and found to be urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U618	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on criminal law. Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 51, for - 24, for - 1. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U619	In the Commission, the draft law was supported. I call on my colleagues to support them.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U620	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on criminal law. Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 50, for - 24, for - 1. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for proposals and the time to review the draft law at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U621	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 13 June at 12.00, consideration - 16 June of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U622	Consequently, proposals may be submitted by 12 noon on 13 June this year, consideration by the Saeima at its meeting on 16 June this year. Draft Act “Amendments to the Road Traffic Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Sandis Riekstins.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U623	Hello, colleagues! The Commission of Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Road Traffic Law” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers (No. 1484/Lp13). The Commission decided to support this draft law and to direct it to the Parliamentary session at first reading. The draft law was drafted by the Ministry of Transport in order: to take over the requirements of Directive 2019/1936; to simplify the procedure for harmonising traffic plans; to clarify the regulation regarding the issuing of passes to vehicles of postal, economic operators and institutions; to avoid the inconsistency of the laws and regulations of the Republic of Latvia with the rulings of the Court of Justice of the European Union; to clarify the delegation in the Road Traffic Law in relation to the procedure for organising, carrying out and paying a behavioural adjustment programme; to prevent discriminatory registration in relation to timber traders and to clarify the terminology used. The Commission has supported the draft law. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U624	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on road traffic law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U625	The deadline for submitting proposals is 9 July this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U626	June? July. Thank you. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 9 July this year. Dear colleagues, Changes to the agenda of the sitting have been tabled. The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption is asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Support Law” to be included on the agenda of the sitting (No. 1529/Lp13) for first reading. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Pollution”, first reading. Member Viesturs Liepkalns on behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U627	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Dear colleagues, The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy at first reading has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Pollution” (No. 1483/Lp13). The aim of the draft law is to lay down the delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers to issue regulations establishing the procedure for implementing the Modernisation Fund and approving its multiannual operational programme, as well as to allow the Cabinet to establish a private or public person implementing the financing function of the Modernisation Fund in Latvia, to approve the regulations of design contests, as well as to determine the main investment directions and reporting conditions. In addition, the draft law clarifies and restores certain versions of the previous section of the law “On Pollution”. In order to respond to the rapid rise in energy prices and to reduce dependence on imports and use of Russian gas and other fossil fuels in Latvia, as well as to implement the modernisation of energy systems and contribute to improving energy efficiency, the amendments need to be implemented as a matter of urgency. In practice, therefore, this urgency is necessary in order to be able to submit investment applications for consideration by the European Investment Bank in August and to start work on the development of specific support programmes in Latvia. Therefore, honourable Members, I would first ask you to determine the urgency of this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U628	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Pollution” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U629	As I said, the Commission examined the draft law and supported it at first reading. I also call on you to support it at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U630	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Pollution” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for proposals and the time to review the draft law at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U631	The deadline for tabling proposals - 30 June this year, second reading - is next sitting of the Saeima after 30 June.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U632	June 30th?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U633	Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U634	So the deadline for proposals - 30 June this year, consideration - for the Saeima's next sitting after 30 June. Draft Act “Amendment to the Road Traffic Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U635	In the Legal Commission we looked at the draft law “Amendment to the Road Traffic Law” (No. 1499/Lp13). The amendment to the Road Traffic Law is necessary to implement the ideas in the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Law” to criminalise the driving or teaching of a vehicle if the amount of alcohol found in the blood in the breath or blood test exceeds 1.5 protagonists, or the driving or teaching of a vehicle under the influence of narcotic, psychotropic, toxic or other intoxicating substances. In the Commission, the draft law was supported. I call on my colleagues to support them.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U636	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on road traffic law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U637	The deadline for submitting proposals is five days, or 14 June of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U638	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 14 June this year. Draft law “Amendment to the Law of the Executors of the Court”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Jānis Iesalnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U639	Hello! The draft law relates to the amendments already approved today in the Civil Law at first reading. The aim of this draft law is to improve the institution of property rights of heirs, by establishing that claims of unsecured creditors of the deceased are evaluated by a sworn bailiff, starting from 1 January 2023. On behalf of the Legal Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U640	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law of the Executors of the Court” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U641	The deadline for submitting proposals for second reading is one month or July 9.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U642	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 9 July this year. Draft Act “Amendments to the Road Traffic Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Sandis Riekstins.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U643	The Commission of Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Road Traffic Law” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers (No. 1518/Lp13) and decided to support the examination of draft laws by the Saeima at first reading. The draft law has been drafted by the Ministry of Transport to take over the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on road infrastructure safety management, road safety inspection and road safety impact assessment. The law will also make it possible to simplify the procedure for harmonising the plans of the traffic organisation and to eliminate the inconsistency of the laws and regulations of the Republic of Latvia with the rulings of the Court of Justice of the European Union. The Commission has supported the draft law. On behalf of the Commission, I call on the draft law to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U644	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on road traffic law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U645	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U646	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on road traffic law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for proposals and the time to review the draft law at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U647	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 10 June this year, consideration - Saeima at the next sitting after 10 June.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U648	That is, on 16 June this year? Deadline for the proposals - 10 June this year, examination by the Saeima - 16 June this year. Draft law “Amendment to the National Security Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Raimonds Bergmanis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U649	Colleagues! In its meeting, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption examined draft law “Amendment to the Law on National Security” (No. 1521/Lp13). The purpose of the draft law is to provide the Minister of Defence with the right to decide on the conduct of special operations abroad and on the conduct of active cyber defence operations. The draft law is intended to allow for an operational and as early as possible counter-response to a state-led situation as a result of military action, as well as to take the necessary preventive measures to address such situations. The draft law provides for the Minister of Defence to take decisions on the conduct of special operations abroad and on the conduct of active cyber defence operations. Decisions need to be coordinated with the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. There is also an obligation for the Minister of Defence to inform the National Security Council about the conduct and results of these operations. Section 6.1, first paragraph, point 7 of the Law on National Armed Forces provides for special operations as one of the measures to be carried out by the National Armed Forces. The success of the dedicated operations depends to a large extent on the ability to respond immediately to the threat and to ensure the discretion of the planned operation over the maximum period of time. At the same time, the number of state-dangered situations in cyber environment related to illegal access to information systems, electronic communications networks and their disruptions is increasing rapidly. It is therefore necessary to strengthen the capabilities of the armed forces to face these challenges. Deescalation of such situations requires additional resources from the armed forces and means to develop counter-reaction capacities. Consequently, effective response to possible threats in all operational environments requires the development of active cyber protection capabilities at national level and, if necessary, their application if other efforts to stop the opponent have not been successful. Active cyber defence operations include activities in the cyber environment aimed at preventing, halting and suspending attacks for both self-defence and preventive purposes. In the Commission, this draft law was drafted in support of the initiative of the Ministry of Defence. On behalf of the Commission, I ask the Saeima to declare the draft law urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U650	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on National Security Act! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U651	Please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U652	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on National Security Act at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U653	The deadline for submitting the proposals for second reading was 14 a.m. on 13 June this year. The sitting of the Saeima at second reading is held on 16 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U654	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 13 June by 2 p.m. Consideration at the Saeima sitting - 16 June this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the National Armed Forces”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Raimonds Bergmanis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U655	The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption also examined draft law “Amendments to the Law on the National Armed Forces” (No. 1522/Lp13). The purpose of this draft law is to establish active cyber defence operations as a separate measure by the National Armed Forces in the performance of their tasks under the Law on the National Armed Forces. At the same time, the draft law establishes the procedure for taking decisions agreed with the previous draft law for carrying out special operations abroad and for conducting active cyber defence operations. In order to provide a legal basis for the implementation of those measures, the draft law on the active cyber defence operation identifies as another separate type of measures implemented by the NMS in the performance of their statutory tasks. The Commission is also asking for the urgent nature of these draft laws, which form part of this package.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U656	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the National Armed Forces” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U657	Please support the draft law at first reading as well.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U658	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the National Armed Forces” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U659	The deadline for submitting the proposals for second reading was 14 a.m. on 13 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U660	And the timing of the Saeima sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U661	The sitting of the Saeima at second reading shall be held on 16 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U662	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 13 June by 2 p.m. Consideration at the Saeima sitting - 16 June this year. Draft law “Amendments to the law on civilian support of Ukraine” (No. 1527/Lp13), first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U663	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! We examine the draft law “Amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Support Act” (No. 1527/Lp13), first reading. This draft law has been prepared by the commission responsible, the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Finance. The draft law is necessary to strengthen the transfer of content generated by public electronic media to other electronic media and its dissemination in an unchanged manner, thus preserving the integrity of public media content. The draft law also provides that public electronic media with a view to providing reliable information to Ukrainian civilians and promoting the state language skills of minority citizens, subtitling or recording public media news or informatively analytical programmes in minority languages. The Commission of Human Rights and Public Cases examined the draft law at its meeting on 8 June this year and unanimously supported its progress for consideration by the Saeima at first reading, as well as the Commission decided in parallel that the draft law should be examined as a matter of urgency. On behalf of the Commission, I call for urgent action to be taken on this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U664	Please call me! Vote on the draft law “Amendments to the law on civilian support for Ukraine” (No. 1527/Lp13) declared urgent! Please vote mode! ( Interface: “Let’s... ?” ) Please see the result. No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U665	Yeah... Now, there's a debate, huh?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U666	Okay, let's start...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U667	I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U668	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U669	Colleagues! Just explain the situation. This draft law does not, in fact, change anything in existing law for public media - be it Latvian Radio or Latvian Television or LSM - to hand over their content to a third party. I say honestly - the big whales, so to say, the big channels - the TV3 or the Tet... it is not interested. I say even more fairly: this is more prone to Latgale's small regional television channels. The bad news is that we can't pass, that is to say, ask to pass, the news, let's say, "Panorama". We cannot pass on the news on public television because there are some kind of shots, materials from international news agencies. These are copyrights that must not be violated, because then there will be a huge responsibility, penalties, and that will not be so much. This more, my fellow Members, is so a little bit like a banner from the Saeima's regional television channels in Latgale that they can... they can still, even now, without voting on this bill, but that they can... We remind them of the respectable editorial choices of Latgale regional television, you can get content from the public media. This draft law provides that the content provider, i.e. public media, will also have to translate the content - here it is written - into “the language of minorities”. Let us be honest, this is Russian. These broadcasts, how, let’s assume, “Absent Method”, “One Against One”, “What’s going on in Latvia?” or Latvian Radio “Open Files” - this is all content that can be given on regional television in Latgale... which is so accustomed to Putin's propaganda (if we look at it), which has been taken away. Even today, we have voted in favour of criminal liability if channels of this kind are distributed... Here we give the content. I do not under any circumstances accept the criticism that the public media will now be weakened if, let us assume, Dautkom television gets one of these broadcasts. Yes, at present, it is not known whether anyone has an interest in it. It is known that there is an interest in the news, but we cannot give the news on the basis of copyright. But let's... I think it would be good for people to show, let's say, "One to one", to talk about a couple of sound recordings... These recordings or titrations. This is so declaratory... The big Saeima... There was unanimous support from the Commission. Therefore, they are amendments to the Ukrainian civilian support law, not the EPLL - the Electronic Media Law. Colleagues, that's the idea. We have today expressed our support for urgency. By 12 noon on Tuesday, the draft law will be discussed at the next sitting of the Saeima on 16 June. I hope that all this will happen. I told you about it. That bad news is really about that news, but nothing can be done there. Here is also the money from the Ministry of Finance, which... we are talking about some 60 thousand to titration or overvoice, so-called recording, because let's be honest, we need to talk to those people who are now perhaps completely detached from some media space. And that's a very important thing. You know very well that the situation in Kurzeme from the situation in Latgale in the area of media consumption is absolutely... is cardinally different. So I will finish my talk on this. Boris definitely continues... Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U670	The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U671	Dear colleagues, Basically, I agree with what Mr. Neighbours said, and I support this draft law. But let's not be illusions. It's a suffocation, because I don't believe it will work, because of a number of circumstances. First. We see clearly that neither the public media themselves nor the public media council are in favour of this idea. ( Subtotal: “Truth. ”) ) And no one can impose it. The Council is independent, the media are independent, no matter what we decide here and what we vote on here, but they can only decide to give back their content or not. The second moment - to give back. Well, there are really some televisions in Latgale, but literally with one hand's fingers will suffice to list them all, who will be willing to take... I don't want to call names now. But it will actually only address a very small part of the Russian-language audience in Latvia, and no problems will be solved with it. Third and most important. It is a great illusion that indeed this audience will watch broadcasts that are intended for the Latvian audience, with subtitles. There is no long-standing problem with the Latvian language. Colleagues, let's not live in the past, in a situation 20 years ago. Any decision should be based on facts, data. Do you know how much Russian-speaking Latvian audience is still watching television? These data were communicated to the Commission and were closed. That's why I'm not going to be here from the pub, but I would very much advise you to take an interest in it. And the second moment - how much of this part is watching television in Latvian? Once again, I will not call the figures, my fellow Members, but absolutely the majority. Who are you going to translate? Do you really think... Well, maybe there are some recent immigrants who will be interesting. But Latvian citizens and absolutely the majority of non-citizens simply do not need this. If they were interested in this content, they would watch it in Latvian, and much of it is doing so. A specific audience can only be reached with the content that is intended for that audience and that has been created taking into account the specifics and interests of that audience. I think any media specialist knows that. So, what are we going to do now? In fact, waste money on translation that nobody needs. We need to think about how to address the Russian-speaking audience, because the situation is receding. We started to talk about this in 2014 after Crimea, and initially it was meant that one common Russian channel was needed for the Baltic States. Well, we thought Estonia created ETV Plus, it did not have an excessive audience, but this channel was very successful in competing with Russian content, and now, after removing Russian channels, the audience of this channel is growing very quickly. On 25 February, Estonia decided to allocate additional funding directly to the Russian broadcasting. One and a half million, if I don't. In March, they gave more than just public media, but also private media. Such as Delfi in Estonian and so on. And it's been working for a long time. These programmes are being created and reach an increasing proportion of the audience. Since 24 February, we have been talking, constantly discussing, no decisions are being taken, and in the end half a million have been distributed. Just recently - a few weeks ago - the list appeared, which... but in principle everything stands on the ground. Or... What do you think that people who are used to watching Russian channels will sit down and wait for us to come up with some wonderful solution here? No, they will look for other solutions, and believe me, basically people look at exactly what they were looking at before the aggression in Ukraine. Once again, we live in the 21st century. An absolute minority is watching television because there are other technologies, other platforms, other communication channels. And if people want information in the language they prefer, they will find such opportunities. But we keep talking. Yes, well, I would like to emphasise once again: I support this proposed solution, it is a very small promise in the right direction, but I would nevertheless like to emphasise two things. First of all, let us not really spend money on translation. We have LSM, we have a very small but quite high quality content in Russian, and it is precisely this content that needs to be concentrated, and it is this content that needs to be disseminated. The content that was originally created for Latvians... It will not be used anyway, colleagues, then it will be in vain. Secondly, let us think further, because it is very likely that this amendment, which we are now discussing, will simply remain on paper, will not be implemented, because it is simply not our competence to impose such a solution on the public media. So let's think further -- better late than never. We have already lost a lot of time. Let us think and look for constructive solutions if we really want to reach this audience. But I look at that, however, the coalition feels very simple – good Russian, correct Russian, loyal Russian is what watching the media, watching television in Latvian. Well, if we think so, then okay, let's finish all these discussions, let's give up on the whole audience, but let's not be surprised that Putin's supporters will be more and more in Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U672	The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U673	Colleagues, we have been discussing these issues for a very long time. I cannot, of course, guarantee that the result will be. We started to talk about titration and translation immediately after 24 February and continued to talk. I think our discussions are good. I remember that the SEPLP spoke in our discussions... SEPLP, also television representatives said that they are not any producers, they are directly willing to disseminate information using their brand, and that is very good. But we also talked and tried to explain our position that it is important for us that the audience is as wide as possible. When we talk about titration, we talk about individual programmes. I don't want to advertise anyone, but there are programmes interesting on Latvian television. If everything was like Mr. Cilevičs thinks that everyone, everyone, can watch and listen in Latvian, then we'd talk at all about whether we need or don't need Rus. LSM.lv, but this issue is not on the agenda. Our idea is different now. There is an interesting content. There are interesting analytical programmes. I think that giving the opportunity to broadcast, translate, titrate - this is an opportunity to expand the audience, because the key words, I think, are now a "single information space". It is not good that our people consume various information. The diversity of information is a good thing, but for us, it's the border, by language. If we had several versions that would offer exactly such information in Latvian, different opinions... It is all very well, it is also in principle; but it is not good that Russian-speaking people get information where accents are put together differently. That's why titrating... Well, first of all, I'm glad that we're moving forward. Of course, it will not be that everyone will sit and wait for “De Facto” in Russian or with Russian subtitles. But I do, like Mr. Cilevič... I admit there is a group of people who may not yet be able to perceive all this information, but if there are titres and the programme is interesting, then the person will be able to access that information. I therefore call for support. I agree that this is not a panacea, but it is a good step. Please support the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U674	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U675	So again: on behalf of the Commission, colleagues, we will not be able to assemble, unmount or otherwise cut the show. I can't. There will be a reference to the corresponding public media... So the logo will also be on the screen. We will see below how we will go in a week's time, what the proposals will be. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U676	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on amendments to the Ukrainian civilian support law (No. 1527/Lp13) at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U677	At 12.00 on 14 June, there is a deadline for proposals, and I would ask for this draft law to be examined by the Saeima at its next meeting on 16 June.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U678	The deadline for proposals is 14 June by 12 noon. Review at the Saeima sitting on 16 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U679	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U680	Draft law “Amendments to the law on civilian support of Ukraine” (No. 1529/Lp13), first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U681	Welcome again. The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption has just examined the current amendments to the Ukrainian civilian support law. The aim of the amendments is to establish the same primary support - accommodation for all Ukrainian civilians - up to 120 days, but no longer than by the end of this year. The aim is also to determine that natural and legal persons will be able to receive remuneration for the accommodation of Ukrainian civilians for a period of up to 120 days, but not later than the end of this year. In addition, the draft law provides for the possibility to receive accommodation support also after a period of 120 days for those Ukrainian civilians who are unable to provide for their accommodation (with several such groups). The Commission unanimously supported this draft law and also supported its urgency. I ask the Saeima to support the urgency of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U682	Please call me! Vote on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Support of the Civil Population of Ukraine” (No. 1529/Lp13) recognition as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U683	Please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U684	The Commission is asking to support the draft law at first reading. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on the Support of the Civil Population of Ukraine" (No. 1529/Lp13) at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 80, for - no, for - 1. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U685	Deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading - 13 June at 14.00. And consideration - Saeima on June 16th.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U686	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 13 June by 2 p.m. Review at the Saeima sitting on 16 June this year. Ladies and gentlemen, then on the agenda - reports by the Bureau on its own-initiative proposals. Members Ēriks Pucens, Kaspars Ģirgens, Ieva Krapāne, Jūlija Stepanenko, Aldis Gobzems, Karina Sprūde, Lubova Švecova, Ramona Petraviča, Maris Možvillo and Ralf Nemiro have submitted their own proposal – draft decision on state-paid meals for students of general educational institutions. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Pūce: “There are objections.” ) Members have reservations, so we must decide to put this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of the next sitting. inclusion of an own-initiative proposal on the agenda of the next sitting. One Member can talk about this, one against and one against. ‘ Ēriks Pucens, a Member, has applied for this.”
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U687	Hello, colleagues! The day has almost ended, we have worked with dozens of draft laws; some of us are able to examine quickly and re-examine, convene a commission, but there are draft laws that we do not even pay attention to. We see what is happening outside today, we see that inflation is already more than 15 per cent, but today we did not adopt any draft legislation restricting inflation. We, the opposition, can put forward proposals for reducing fuel prices, for foodstuffs, for electricity, for gas, but here everything is rejected. When talking to municipalities and businesses that supply these food to institutions, they say that they will soon have to break contracts because they will no longer be able to fulfil them. And then the question arises. Then when you need airBaltic, then we have the money. When we need money for the train, we have money. When money is needed for vaccines that are thrown into the wastebin, we also have money for that. But when we could think about our children to provide them with a holiday, Juris Pūce proudly says that he has reservations. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Pouce’s intermediate call.) Yes, yes, indeed, Jury. That's why... Colleagues, it is a pity that today we will not look at this draft law... not a draft law, but a draft decision. Our draft decision was intended to give the Cabinet the task of developing a procedure for providing these children with a holiday. It's a pity, colleagues, you didn't support it. And it is likely that next week, you will find your job to end, but many very big problems will come in the autumn. And maybe then someone will start to think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U688	Mr. Aldis Gobzems has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U689	I am against leaving this issue. Children's holidays must be now, from today, in kindergartens, in schools - from the first day of school to the last. And remember, I will always support children's holidays! Gobzem is a hard nut - it's not a soft nut. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U690	So one Member has spoken 'for', one for 'no'. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft decision on state-paid catering for students of general education institutions on the agenda of the meeting of June 16th! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 34, against - 46, abstaining - not. The draft decision is not on the agenda for the meeting of 16 June. Is there a proposal to hand it over to one of the commissions? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem’s intermediate call.) So Mr Gobzem proposes that the budget and financial (tax) commission be transferred. Mr. Pucen? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Pucen’s exclamation.) to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Pucken: “Yes.” ) Please call us! We will vote for the transfer of the draft decision on state-paid catering for students of general educational institutions to the Committee on Budget and Finance (tax)! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 33, no one for - 47, no one for - 47. The draft decision has not been submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Please call me! We will vote for handing over to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government the draft decision on state-paid catering for students of general educational institutions! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 33, no one for - 47, no one for - 47. The draft decision has not been submitted to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government. The draft decision is rejected. Members Viktors Valainis, Armands Krauze, Edgars Tavars, Gundars Dauge, Jānis Vucāns, Didzis Šmits, Janīna Jalinska, Raimonds Bergmanis, Maris Kučinskis and Uldis Augulis have submitted their own proposal – a draft decision “On the task for the Cabinet of Ministers to prevent heating in 2022-2023. the prerequisites for the seasonal crisis of the year’. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? And the objections. So we have to decide to put it on the agenda for the next sitting. to decide on the inclusion on the agenda of the next sitting. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U691	The President of the sitting. Dear colleagues, We prepared this draft decision in order to call on the Saeima, however, to also draw attention to the fact that the government is not working on and is not offering any solutions for reducing the rise in energy prices. Now, from publicly available information, we see that the Prime Minister has allegedly issued a resolution... A solution has already been adopted by the government on 14 June. Some time has passed, but we have not even heard any solutions from the government in the form of a rotten word. The only concrete proposal was from the Minister of Finance. The Minister of Finance proposed to review the administrative expenses of energy companies. Colleagues, if this is the approach from the Finance Minister, then... I think we should be essential - essential! - influence this process by requiring the government to come up with concrete solutions. In this case, we propose that this solution be... propose a solution to make these costs comparable to the previous heating season. The solution must be. You can't be as it is now when you're being offered, well, like... so to say, solutions are listed after, but citizens have already stopped electricity... This aid, which has been in operation for some time. For a number of entrepreneurs, citizens' electricity bills have already doubled. If you look at wood prices... For example, if the load of wood cost 500-1000 euros, then now the same load of wood costs 2000-2500 euros. If municipalities are currently making purchases... ( The drug is noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) Building energy procurement... I was on the side of Jēkabpils last week, and the representatives of the municipality told me clearly about the situation - that there is no one supplying the wood. A number of invitations to tender shall be suspended, no economic operator shall apply. In contact with those operators who have previously delivered, they simply say that they will wait for the autumn. In the autumn, that wood will cost even more. This problem with price rises is no longer present to target groups, which are so much loved by the government and government ministers. This problem already affects the whole of Latvian society, regardless of what people's income is. For middle-income earners, this burden, which is from the rise in prices, is also intolerant. For entrepreneurs, this has been intolerant for a long time. The government approach with targeted support will not deliver. Maze... Food products will cost more and more. We call on the government to really take action. At the moment, we do not see any action from the government. No practical action. The statements made by the government ministers do not indicate that they have any vision on this issue. Colleagues, I really ask you all to support this draft decision. This draft decision gives the task for the government to take action, make decisions and contribute to this price reduction. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U692	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the task of the Cabinet of Ministers to prevent heating in 2022-2023. The incorporation of the seasonal crisis into the agenda of the meeting of 16 June this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 37, against - 43, abstaining - not. The draft decision is not on the agenda for the meeting of 16 June. Is there a proposal to hand it over to one of the commissions? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Valainis: “Economics”. ) Please call us! We will vote on the draft decision “On the task of the Cabinet of Ministers to prevent heating in 2022-2023. It is the prerequisites for a seasonal crisis” to be handed over to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft decision has not been submitted to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. The draft decision is therefore rejected. Dear colleagues, The agenda of the sitting has been examined. I would like to inform you, in the context of today's forthcoming sitting, of the answers to Members' questions. On the question of Member Viktors Valaiņa, Raimonds Bergmanis, Gundars Dauges, Janīna Jalinska and Jānis Dūklavs, Minister of Education and Science about the fulfilment of SIA Module Engineering’s obligations regarding air quality meters supplies. The written replies received are not satisfactory, but the oral Members do not wish to ask further questions. Member Valija Agešina, Jānis Urbanoviča, Jānis Tutina, Edgars Kucina and Arthur Rubika question to the Minister for Economics “On the validity of publicly expressed statements made by the Minister of Economics”. The written replies received are not satisfactory, but the oral Members do not wish to ask further questions. Member Vitālijs Orlovs, Jānis Krišāns, Zenta Tretjaka, Jānis Tutins and Edgars Kucins have submitted the question “On the procedure for evaluating the LNG terminal project in Latvia”, which we submit to the Minister of Economics for reply. And the Members Vitalijs Orlovs, Jānis Krišāns, Zenta Tretjaka, Jānis Tutins and Edgars Kucins have submitted a question “On the additional information to be provided and the need to explain the validity of the answers given in relation to the Members’ questions “On the readiness of the Latvian Government to help Latvia’s society and economy in a meaningful way to overcome the energy crisis””. The question is referred to the Prime Minister. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name For Inese Voika to read the registration results.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U693	Colleagues! Not registered: Arvils Asheraden, Krista Baumane, Aldis Blumbergs, Normunds Dzintars, Kaspars Girgens, Nikolai Kabanovs, Artuss Kaimins... Artus is, Ivan Klementyev, Rihards Kols, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Regina Ločmele, Ramona Petraviča, Ivans Ribakovs, Jānis Vucāns and Gatis Zamurs.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-09-PT13-2392-U694	I closed the sitting of the Saeima on 9 June this year.
