ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! We will begin the sitting of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 3 March this year. We are gathered here, but think together with the Ukrainian people, and there are also issues on our agenda that are dedicated to supporting Ukraine. Let us start by looking at the agenda of the sitting. First of all, the amendments tabled to the agenda of the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau. Dear colleagues, Before we start working with the changes, there is technical information: there is a request to keep the face mask, however, also talking in the triple. If you need to drink, of course, the mask can be removed. But there is a request not to remove the mask, even when speaking on the platform. Changes tabled to the agenda of the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau The Cabinet of Ministers has asked for changes to the agenda of the sitting - to include the draft law “The Ukrainian Civil Support Law”. Do Members object to these changes to the agenda? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There are no objections. The order of business has been amended. The Commission of Human Rights and Public Affairs has requested to make changes to the agenda of the sitting - to include the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Protected Service”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The commission of mandates, ethics and applications asks for the draft decision to be included on the agenda of the meeting “On Zenta Tretjakas 13. Approval of the parliamentary mandate and consideration of it as the first item on the agenda. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The commission of mandates, ethics and applications is asking for changes to the agenda of the sitting to be included in the report on the Member who has presented an interoperable Covid-19 certificate and who is therefore entitled to participate in the work of the Saeima and to include it as a second item on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. And the European Affairs Commission has asked for an amendment to the agenda of the sitting to include the draft decision on granting EU candidate status to Ukraine and to consider it as a third issue on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( Internouncing call.) There is no objection. The order of business has therefore been amended. Let us start by looking at the amended agenda of the sitting. The order of business shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union by the General Secretariat of the Council, which shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union by the General Secretariat of the Draft decision on Zenta Tretjakas 13. Approval of the mandate of a Member of the Saeima’. Member of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications Arthur Rubik.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U2	Good morning, colleagues! Report. The commission of mandates, ethics and applications has received 13. An application by a Member of the Saeima, Ivars Zarins, concerning the appointment of a Member of the Saeima. According to the Central Electoral Commission, Zenta Tretjaka, who has agreed to take on 13 of the next candidate of the Social Democratic Party from Zemgale electoral district, is the candidate for the next “Conciliation” on the list of Zemgale electoral districts. The office of a member of the Saeima as well as the fact that he is not subject to restrictions on the appointment of a Member as laid down in the Saeima Election Law and other regulatory acts shall not apply to him. At its meeting on 2 March this year, the Commission unanimously supported 13. Approval of the mandate of a Member of the Saeima by Zenta Tretjaka. We invite you to support the draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U3	Thank you. I call on Zent Tretyak to make a solemn promise or an oath.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U4	When I take office as a Member of the Saeima, Zenta Tretjaka swears to be faithful to Latvia, to strengthen its sovereignty and Latvian language as the only state language, to defend Latvia as an independent and democratic state, to perform my duties in good faith and with the best consciousness. I undertake to respect the Constitution and laws of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U5	Thank you. I'm calling for an oath. Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on “On Zenta Tretjakas 13. Approval of the mandate of a Member of the Saeima’! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. Decision adopted. Congratulations on 13. Members of the Saeima, Zent Tretyak! I invite you to take a seat in Saeima's meeting room. (Applause) Thank you. Go on. On the agenda - a report on the Member who has presented an interoperable Covid-19 certificate and who is therefore entitled to participate in the work of the Saeima. Member of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications Arthur Rubik.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U6	A report on the Member who has presented an interoperable Covid-19 certificate and who is therefore entitled to participate in the Saeima's work. In accordance with Article 4 of the Law ‘On additional temporary requirements for the work of members of the Saeima and members of municipal councils’, I declare that on 1 March 2022 an interoperable Covid-19 certificate has been submitted by Member Zenta Tretjaka as proof of vaccination. Thus, Zenta Tretjaka is entitled to participate in the Saeima's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U7	Thank you. Colleagues, the report has been heard. Next, reports by the Bureau on own-initiative proposals submitted. Dear colleagues, The European Courts Commission has submitted an own-initiative proposal – draft decision on granting the status of candidate country to Ukraine of the European Union. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? There is no objection by Members. The draft decision is on the agenda of the sitting. And since there has been a request for it to be dealt with as a third item on the agenda of the sitting, we shall begin to examine it immediately. On behalf of the Commission on European Affairs... Colleagues who will report on behalf of the Commission on European Affairs? Member Uldis Budrik. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U8	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Please, please. At its meeting on 2 March, the European Courts Commission unanimously approved its position on granting the status of EU candidate country to Ukraine. In a separate sitting... The European Courts Commission is leading the draft decision - the announcement of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia. I'll read the text. Draft decision of the Saeima “Declaration of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia “On granting the status of candidate country for Ukraine of the European Union””. The Saeima of the Republic of Latvia: on the basis of the statement by the Saeima of 24 February 2022 on the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine; on the basis of Ukraine's application for full membership of the European Union; on the basis of Ukraine's support for the granting of EU candidate status for Ukraine and for the future of Ukraine's full membership of the EU; on the basis of the fact that Ukraine now considers it particularly important and necessary to express its clear support for Ukraine's goal of becoming an EU Member State; on the request of the EU institutions to work towards giving Ukraine the status of EU candidate country as soon as possible; on the request of all EU Member States to support Ukraine in their efforts to become a full member of the EU and to support the granting of EU candidate country status for Ukraine; on the fact that granting EU candidate country status for Ukraine would be an important signal of EU solidarity, confirming that Ukraine belongs to Europe, whose values it is now capable of fighting with all its forces; on the fact that Latvia stands ready to provide Ukraine with its full support for its full membership of the European Union. This draft decision was approved unanimously by the Commission. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U9	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U10	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Before we vote in favour of this announcement by the Saeima, I would ask the Members of the Saeima who are working in a group of Members for cooperation with the Russian Parliament and with a group of Members for cooperation with the Belarusian Parliament - these groups are still officially listed as active - to even convene a group meeting today and immediately stop these groups. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U11	I closed the debate. Is there anything else to be added on behalf of the Commission, please?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U12	The Commission was unanimously supported. Colleagues, I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U13	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on granting EU candidate status to Ukraine! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U14	Thank you, colleagues. Glory to Ukraine! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U15	Glory to Ukraine! And heroes of praise! Here we go on to the draft laws that have been tabled. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Fertilizers” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Scientific Activities” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection” (No. 1358/Lp13) transferred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the Commission responsible. ‘ against’ applied to speak by Ralph Nemiro.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U16	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, This draft law, which is related to the management of Covid-19 infection, has become extremely extensive and in fact regulates already the areas regulated by certain laws, such as the provision requiring NBS employees to use QR codes. Dear colleagues, if we look at what is happening in reality: QR codes are no longer needed at gathering places or supermarkets, people do not actually use them. Such a draft law is by nature no longer relevant. My colleague Ramona Petraviča has put forward proposals about four times in the context of the termination of QR codes. How long can it continue?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The mistakes made by the Cabinet were analysed at the moment when we dealt with these issues in the parliamentary committee of inquiry. The Parliamentary Investigation Commission found errors on around 80 pages in its work by the Cabinet. Colleagues therefore need to draw conclusions from these mistakes. This bill from the Cabinet of Ministers has come to us - the Saeima. We have to send it back for recycling, because many rules are no longer relevant. If we look at it, then... Today, more than 3,000 people can gather together, and there is no talk at all about epidemiology. This draft law also does not deal with 65 000 redundant workers who were healthy or operational but were no longer able to fully support their family members because the Cabinet had decided to dismiss them. The second case is that the penalties paid for breaching the epidemiological safety rules, which are no longer in force at the moment. What is the point? Why does this draft law not solve this? And the third point is that the parliamentary committee worked long enough. Several Members also named the Prime Minister, who has not been a good crisis manager, as a responsible person. So that this draft law does not address very many important issues. Return it to the Cabinet of Ministers for recycling! I call for no support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U17	Thank you. Colleagues, so let's vote. Please call me! Vote on the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on the Management of communicable Diseases” (No. 1358/Lp13) transfer to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, determining that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the Member Mārtiņš Šteina, Anda Čakša, Inese Voika, Aigars Bikše, Viestura Liepkalna, Krista Baumane’s draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Holidays, Remembrances and Markable Days” be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U18	Good morning, Madam President-in-Office of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Dear Members of the Committee. Sitting viewers and listeners! ‘ I want to help refugees”, “Viegli pagalba”, Ukrainian Support Society, “Kievot.lv”, “Latvian Samaritans Association”, “Centre MARTA”, Latvian Scout and Wait Central Organisation, “Latvian Rural Forum”, Latvian SOS - Children’s Village Association, “Mozaika”, Latvian Youth Council, “Latvian Civic Alliance”, Crisis Centre Society “Slanes”, Latvian Municipal Union and many other non-governmental organisations help Ukraine and its citizens with tirelessly collecting donations, crambling humanitarian goods, coordinating other forms of assistance, organising voluntary activities, organising support events and myths, informing the public. Great respect and admiration for these organizations and for the people who work in them! We must respect and help these organisations. Non-governmental or non-governmental organisations are the guarantor and cornerstone of democracy. NGOs help democracy to function properly. Non-governmental organisations do this by making it easier for people to get information on how the state is run, helping the public to communicate with politicians and making sure that the government does not abuse its powers. In order to draw attention to the role of organised civil society in improving the quality of life of peers, in developing national democracy, in ensuring sustainable peace, inspire people to become more involved in the civil sector, and in promoting cooperation between organised civil society... public and private sectors, International NGO Day has been celebrated in various countries of the world for 13 years. It is an international symbol that reflects the values, efforts and achievements of NGOs, which are focused on the care of freedom, the voice of society, the safety of people, the ruined countries, nature, the human heritage and the future. It confirms the public's gratitude and appreciation for the contribution of NGOs to its success by bringing together non-governmental organisations from around the world under a single symbol. It is a memorial day for those NGOs who have lost their lives in carrying out their work and mission duties in dangerous circumstances. Perhaps you didn't know, but the tradition of the International NGO Day was started in 2009 in Latvia, when it was initiated by the social entrepreneur Mārcis Liors Skadmanis and the society “Latvian Civic Alliance”. After 13 years, the initiative has become a global celebration. There have been many events, international events, which support the international recognition of this initiative. International NGO Day is already recognised in Mexico, Seychelles, South Africa. Several countries are considering this initiative, while others are celebrating this day on their own initiative or following the recommendations of the European External Action Service. The goal of this day is also in line with the Declaration adopted by the Saeima on the development of civil society in Latvia and cooperation with non-governmental organisations. Official recognition of International NGO Day is an important step in recognising the importance of the work carried out by civil society and NGOs in Latvia. Dear colleagues, I invite you to support this draft law, and together we include International NGO Day in Latvia's famous days calendar! In addition to expressing our gratitude and appreciation for those who work in these organisations, we also call for the accession of even wider groups of non-governmental organisations. I know some people are afraid to open the law, but they shouldn't be afraid. This would not only be a beautiful and symbolic step, but also a huge assessment of the sector of our national NGOs that deserves it, especially today. Please support the transmission of the draft law and support it in all readings, if necessary also in two readings, as a matter of urgency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U19	Thank you. ‘ Against” applied to speak Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U20	Hello, dear colleagues! Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. If we have the same rules for everyone today - talking in masks and sitting in masks - then, Mrs Sprūde, please put on the mask. Colleagues! On the bill. Firstly, I pay deep respect to any representative of NGOs in Latvia, any organisation, we have several tens of thousands of NGOs. ( Internouncing call.) I understand that this signal that these Members who have signed this bill are trying to pass on to NGOs is very important and I appreciate it very much. But, dear colleagues, today is 3 March, International NGO Day is 27 February, that is, this day was... And it happened five years ago... Colleagues! I'm for this day. I am in favour of it being a calendar. But, dear colleagues, I ask you to reject it today, I ask you 14. The Saeima as the first work in the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs... with the same bill... within a month, we will accept, we will do, and on 27 February, this will already be the calendar. Why am I saying that? Because if we open this law, International NGO Day will not be the only day. A number of Members will come... You yourself, my fellow Members, I think, every sixth, seventh will come with his or her famous day, especially now that there is a pre-election time. Five months before the elections, I think that this kind of law should not be open. We had the experience of the Commission in the last term, when each of the members of the Commission brought their days... Then there were still days of occupation. We had offers for fishermen's days, fishermen's days, Aryan days, and many other days. We decided that all these days of professions are given, delegated to the Cabinet of Ministers and accepted by the Cabinet - as days of occupation. In principle, it could be similar to NGOs, it could be similar to treating it as a day for occupations and it should be... The Cabinet of Ministers. But, my colleagues, I'm not doing it, I didn't bother it. I am absolutely in favour of these days in the calendar, but at the moment we do not open this law because we will get, I think, at least 30 more famous days, those that have always come in smoothly to the Commission five months before the elections. Then Members will come to the Commission to defend their views and from this same troupe, honourable colleagues, they will talk about their days only in order to be able to speak and perhaps be "catched" on TV screens before the elections. Raimond Bergmani, special for you. We have talked to you several times, and I fully support the initiative that you brought when you were still Minister of Defence for Defence for having to be the day of soldiers. The day of soldiers - it's a day of professions, it's about a profession, so that delegation is to the Cabinet of Ministers. I also understand that this is still not done, but the Cabinet of Ministers has to do so. I therefore also ask the ZZS Group to vote against this case and not to open this law, let us take your initiative on soldiers' days. This right now is not a law of primary need in the interests of the state... what is now happening on a global scale in our country, Ukraine including... all over the world. Please, my fellow Members, do not open this law, because now, I think, representatives of NGOs, too, can wait, wait, let us accept, December 2022, and do it again in a way that is accepted by the Commission, here. Then we can do this, but not five months before the elections. Please reject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U21	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Holidays, Remembrances and Markable Days” establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 33, for - 26, for - 21. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. Colleagues, before we go on. We met in this Chamber on similar terms for everyone. I call on all Members of the Saeima to respect their colleagues and to lay masks. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Slaughter, did you hear it?” ) I call on all Members of the Saeima to respect their colleagues and to impose masks. I asked the Saeima Administration to record this situation. ( Internouncing call.) I asked the Saeima Administration to record this situation, also to record the time schedule. In my view, there are also grounds for assessing this situation at the meeting of the Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Application. I also ask the State Police to pay attention to this situation and to assess whether there are grounds for drawing up a protocol. Colleagues, we will not allow the Saeima to terminate today's sitting (Interview) Because of the wishes of some Members (Interior call: “Let the police... “) and we will continue the sitting, but this situation is recorded in the timetable. ( The ring of noise.) Next - Parliamentary Presidium proposes the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” presented by Member Evija Papule, Edgars Tatars, Armands Krauze, Viktors Valaiņa and Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis (No. 1360/Lp13) to transfer to the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, establishing that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Evija Papule, a Member, has applied to speak about’.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U22	Madam President, Colleagues and colleagues! This proposal... Amendments to the Education Law are a bit special, although of course the situation is our... In Ukraine... The Ukrainian people are much more specific, and yet. Especially because this proposal is driven by the teachers themselves. Especially because the teachers themselves offer a way to solve communication, mutual relations in difficult situations that have developed not only in everyday teaching... pedagogical work matters, but also, of course, cases of sickness. In this situation too, teachers may need to be clear about how to deal with their differences or how to communicate with people of different backgrounds and also with children. I call for this proposal to be supported. And, of course, using this emotional situation, I also call on us to be adequate in communication and to set an example, including in schools - between teachers and children - and between parents. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U23	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education” presented by Mr Ritvars Jansons, Ms Raivja Dzintars, Mr Edvins Šnores, Mr Janis Dombrava and Ms Janina Kursīte-Pakule be submitted to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, which states that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Against’ applied to speak Member Ilmārs Dūritis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U24	Good morning, very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. High honourable Members! These submitted amendments to the Law on Higher Education provide for changes to the fourth paragraph of Article 56. I would like to say briefly that already today, of course, the Law on Higher Education provides for study programmes that are highly appreciated and accredited, can be implemented in the official languages of the European Union. The submitted amendments to the law would provide that universities would be allowed to implement such study programmes in the official languages of the European Union only if such programmes were provided in parallel or in fact in Latvian. In my view, this causes quite a lot of problems. Firstly, it will create difficulties for the university to create new programmes in other languages of the European Union, as it will be necessary to consider whether there is an opportunity to provide a parallel program in Latvian. Secondly, it will create further fragmentation of programmes, which we already have a problem in this relatively underfunding situation in higher education. Then I would also like to say that already now the law provides that in these programmes, which are implemented in the official languages of the European Union, part of the study courses can be held in Latvian as well. There is also a mandatory requirement (Hall noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) The Law on Higher Education provides that training of the state language, i.e. Latvian, must also be provided in these programmes. So it is necessary to include a course of study, which provides for the teaching of Latvian language for these students. Moreover, it is also unclear whether, for example, by creating such a parallel program in the Latvian language, the university will in general have reflectives who want to study in this program, because it may be a very specific, narrow program, which will be difficult to actually... well, fill this version of Latvian with students. That's why, in general... And, of course, it is also unclear why such amendments have been tabled right now. Is this really the main issue to be addressed at the moment? Therefore, honourable colleagues, I call on us not to support today the draft law on amendments to the University College Law and reject its referral to the Commission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U25	Thank you. ‘ Mr. Ritvars Jansons, a Member, has applied for the floor.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U26	Hello, colleagues! The National Association has so far supported and will continue to support the acquisition of university programmes in the languages of the European Union, but we do not believe that in the future the situation of certain particularly-demanded study programmes, such as treatment, cannot be allowed to be acquired only in a foreign language. Thus, we offer - if the study programme is studied only in the language of the European Union, then the state-based higher education institutions also ensure that the study programme is acquired in the state language. The law must defend not the interests of university profit, but ensure that Latvian citizens receive a service in the state language. Usually, politicians pull out this embarrassing pensioner card. What will the pensioners understand? But what if, in this requested treatment programme, training took place only in the languages of the European Union (in reality, it will be English), the new doctor, learning this terminology only in English, will then communicate with the Latvian, Russian pensioner or any Latvian citizen? How high will his contact be if there is no treatment programme in the future, for example, in Latvian? The Law on Higher Education also provides that the process of university education will become more and more closely merged with scientific development. Therefore, care should be taken to ensure that in the future the creation and development of the latest scientific terminology in Latvian is ensured. The more programmes in the languages of the European Union will be available in universities... that will confound with science... more logically, an Englishman will be introduced. These programmes in parallel with Latvian will also provide a terminology basis for the state language. Of course, we have taken into account in these amendments to the law that this applies only to state-established universities and thus to those universities that receive funding from the state budget. These amendments do not affect private universities, such as the Latvian Economic... University of Riga, Riga University of Law, where, as in the past, programs will be learned in a foreign language, and there will be no change in this case at all. We have also made reference in these amendments to the law if, for example, there are no teaching staff and teachers of the appropriate qualifications, for example, there is a laser technology program at Rezekne Academy of Technologies. Well, I don't think it would be possible to implement this programme in only the state language at the moment in Latvia. So, if there are such exceptions, they are provided for in our amendments. Finally, we remember very well how the language amendments to the University College Law were hastily adopted, as an accelerated procedure, so that the country would not be subject to international sanctions. The President of Latvia, when announcing the law adopted by the Saeima, where language amendments were made, also states: “It would be neither acceptable nor advisable to promote or support measures that narrow the use of the state language in some area of public life or reduce its necessity. This is particularly true of higher education and science." Therefore, if you voted in favour of these amendments to the law, there is now an opportunity to incorporate these amendments in a slow, calm manner and make changes in line with the balance between the national language and the languages of the European Union.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U27	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U28	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U29	Time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U30	I call for the vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U31	Colleagues, so let's vote! Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education” to the Commission on Education, Culture and Science, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 11, it's against - 71, it's not. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. ( Some Members are applauding.) The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Labour Law” presented by Member Edvina Šnore, Raivja Dzintars, Jānis Iesalnieks, Jānis Dombrava and Ritvars Janson be referred to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Edwin Schnore.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U32	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Our proposed norms relate to strengthening the position of the Latvian language in the working environment. Primarily - with the protection of workers in Latvia who do not learn Russian. This problem is getting bigger every year with young people entering the labour market who cannot speak Russian. The President of Latvia has also pointed out linguistic discrimination in the labour market. The incentiveed norms would eliminate the current situation that unreasonably foreign language skills are required right there or for all professions in Latvia. As a result, people cannot work even the simplest jobs if they do not know Russian. This is a completely abnormal situation and the existing regulatory framework has failed to address it. Therefore, we urge to supplement the Labour Law with the rule that the employer should not require the employee to communicate in a foreign language with the permanent residents of Latvia and therefore impose unjustified requirements for foreign language knowledge. Everyone in Latvia must have the right to speak Latvian citizens in the state language, without being punished or accused. It is a normal requirement for a state that has been independent for 30 years now, a state in which the people clearly stated in a referendum that the state language in Latvia is only one - and it is Latvian. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U33	Thank you. ‘ Ljubova Švecova, a Member, has applied to speak against’.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U34	37 percent of the Latvian population are Russian-speaking. About 35 percent in schools... native language is Russian. Colleagues! What are you doing?Oh, no, no, no, no, We're moving in a slow spirit towards the abyss. Now individual politicians permit, going through a plan, a fragile ice, to start using an ethnic card, amending laws and introducing a radical anti-Russian rhetoric. For several years now, Russian has been attributed the status of ‘Occupants’. I don't like lying. I cannot suffer lies and those who use lies to build political and financial capital. Those who write such laws, please consult your strategic partners if you do not have the sense of mind. They know very well how to build... the challenges to be addressed by ethnic conflicts. Please don't let the escalation here. Think before you introduce such laws and proposals. The consequences are unpredictable, and they will be the responsibility of all of us. Please do not support this proposal or the proposal concerning the complete transition to Latvian in schools. Once again, please think! I know that another person has also applied for an 'no' to the draft law on Education and I will unfortunately not be able, but I will also vote 'no' to that draft law. The public has been living for two years under the influence of restrictions, conflict and "cancel culture". People want each other and call each other a name. It's already rooted. People allow influencers and those who express different opinions to simply kill them, threatening them. Yes, the ethnic... ethnic conflicts in the city. What are you doing? How far will you go? Once again, I ask you to think and consult your strategic partners before you come up with such draft laws. I will not support this draft law and I will not support the draft law on Education.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U35	One Member has spoken for, one against. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Labour Law” to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On -11, against -69, refraining from -1. ( Some Members are applauding.) The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the member Jānis Dombrava, Rihards Kola, Edvina Šnore, Jānis Iesalnieks and Raivjs Dzintars should refer the draft law “Amendments to the Immigration Law” to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, which states that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Jānis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U36	Colleagues, this is an emotional time - war catches us collectively and at a very personal level. Our friends and acquaintances in Ukraine are at risk, their homes are destroyed, their life hangs at the end of the hair. Ukraine provides us with training in the most timid way. One fight is taking place on the front line against Russian occupation troops, and the other against the rear, where a diversity in support of the Kremlin shoots at the back of Ukrainian soldiers and civilians. We also have persons who, at this time, would fully support Putin's criminal regime. Let us not lie to ourselves and to others. Putin doesn't drive tanks, planes and missiles alone. Many people are doing this because many citizens of the Russian Federation. Millions of citizens of the Russian Federation support the war against Ukraine, including those currently living in Latvia. In the last Russian presidential elections in the territory of Latvia, almost 20 thousand Russian citizens voted in favour of Vladimir Putin. It was after the annexation of Crimea, the occupation of Donetsk and Luhansk. 20 thousand people who lived in Latvia voted in favour of Putin. I suspect that these figures are not significantly different today. Until now, I have not seen a campaign where thousands of citizens of the Russian Federation would go to burn their passports here on the spot in Latvia. However, I would like to emphasise that all Russian citizens are not identical. There are exceptions. I completely separate myself from the public statements that have been directed against all Russians living in Latvia. Now more than ever we see fundamental differences in values and they go beyond the ethnic divide. Some believe that independence is a value; others believe it is good to kill if it means restoring the Russian Empire. The proposed amendments to the Immigration Law would not apply to Latvian Russians or non-Latvian citizens. They would apply to Russian citizens who live in Latvia. In the interest of national security, such an audit would be necessary. At the same time, many Russian citizens would remain able to retain their residence permit in Latvia. The draft law provided that: the first exception would be - if a residence permit was issued for the acquisition of education in an educational institution, university or college in the Republic of Latvia; the second exception - if the employer provides the Office of Citizenship and Migration Affairs with a reasoned justification why the relevant employee is essential for ensuring the operation of the company; the third exception - if a residence permit was issued for treatment in a hospital institution; the fourth exception - if a residence permit was issued in connection with a business; the fifth exception - in other cases, in cases relating to force majeure, essential personal reasons, interests of the state of Latvia or humanitarian considerations. A person should submit an appropriate application to the Authority for Citizenship and Migration, which, of course, is not too complex. In addition to Russian citizens living in Latvia, it is possible to obtain refugee or alternative person status or to naturalize and become Latvian citizens if they have lived in Latvia for a long time. As you have heard, many options for maintaining a residence permit would be maintained, but there is no consensus in the Saeima on this crucial issue. Colleagues, this issue is not about the possibility of earning rating points. I want us all together to solve, without unnecessary passion, a major problem with national security, so that we all have a similar view of the best solution to this audit, so I withdrew my signature to this bill. I call on the representatives of all parties to sit at one table as soon as possible, to debate this matter, to produce a text on which we can all agree and to resubmit it together to the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U37	Thank you. So the bill has been withdrawn. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes the draft law “Amendments to Education Law” presented by the Member Raivja Dzintars, Edvina Šnores, Jānis Dombrava, Janina Kursītes–Pakules and Ritvars Jansons (No. 1367/Lp13) transferred to the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Against” said Member Ramona Petraviča.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U38	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I am deeply disappointed and ashamed that, in a situation in which Latvian and other European companies need to be united, several Members are actively trying to divide already polarised Latvian society. They use war in Ukraine and patriotism rhetoric as a cover for their desired achievement, with public attention focused on war. The proposal of the National Alliance - the draft law on amendments to the Education Law - is a striking example of such a political tactic, because it provides for the provision of one hundred percent of training in the national language in the education programmes of minorities up to class 9, starting from the following school year, i.e. 1 September of this year. Approval of the proposal would first of all be a clear parliamentary message to all minorities that their cultures and languages are undesirable for the Latvian state. Already now, because of the geopolitical situation, it is as if nationalist people who are aggressively opposed to Russian-speaking people. And then it would also be a country against these people. And as has already been observed, it can lead to the search for perpetrators, violence and even more tense political situations across borders. Secondly, it will never achieve the objectives of the law stated by the National Association. Other grounds of the draft law: “This approach works as a uniting element of Latvian society and ensures equal opportunities for every child of Latvia to get quality education.” It really is not clear to me how the sudden pressure of minority children to learn another language, for example, will improve... quality education in mathematics or how it will promote equality. Members of the National Alliance have been in various formats, both in Parliament and in power for decades, but now only under the cover of hostilities they are trying to mask passiveness and adopt such a law. Note, however, that I argued for the preservation and expansion of the national language in a way that allows representatives of minority languages to adapt without discrimination. We live in a historically national rich country, where there are Latvian and Russian, Latvian and Ukrainian families. National Association wishing Russian citizens to withdraw their residence permits within three months... it is a desire to destroy these families. Remember that these people, too, are working here, or are our neighbours, who probably have nothing to do with the Kremlin's decisions, so they can by no means be held accountable for the actions of the dictator of power. I turn to each one of you as a mother, as a wife. We must not separate children from parents and parents - one from another solely because of their nationality - so I ask colleagues to refrain from spreading and provocative expressions and proposals in public spaces. At a time when we have a power-building dictator in our neighbourhood who sees no value for human lives, we must stand together on our shoulders with all Latvian minorities for the future of us and our children. Exacerbation and provocation will only be achieved in the opposite direction, so please reject this proposal. Thank you. ( Some Members are applauding.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U39	Mr Raivis Dzintars has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U40	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Of course, it will not be a secret that I am disappointed with a series of votes today. At the same time, I am delighted to see you here after a long time. It seems that an eternity has passed since we had such an opportunity, and many of us have already forgotten what decisions we had made before we had discussed before these days of the community, before the first positive case of the community, which was approved in Latvia. I will remind you only of one thing, especially for coalition partners. There was a coalition joint decision, a coalition agreement announced on Monday evening to the general public, that we were determined to move step by step towards education in the state language. Colleagues, how spring, how winter has gone since this announcement! We have listened to the Ministry at the Education, Culture and Science Commission, received promises to come with a plan, with a proposal. The plan should have been in March last year. Colleagues, where are we now? We are at the same point as we were after the last parliamentary elections. Now there is a new coalition agreement - a new coalition agreement on the fact that Latvia has one state language and it must also be reflected in the education system. The Ministry of Education and Science promises to come with an alternative offer, with a more gradual transition over six years and a promise that in April there might be draft laws if this time it happens in time, without delay. If this happens in April, where there is a guarantee that there will be no again Mrs Petraviča or any other Mrs, or Mr President-in-Office, and once again some of them will have shook their hands, and we will not have moved forward during this parliamentary term. Colleagues, safer, in our view, are now conceptual to decide that education must be in the state language. And if someone claims that this proposal has appeared now, he lies. This proposal is written in cooperation... The coalition agreement, which we have announced, has been written in a government declaration, has been the coalition agreement. This issue was supposed to have been adopted 30 years ago. We do not want the result, if any, to be in 30 years' time. It would be possible and, in our view, it would be safer to decide conceptually about it right now, hand it over to the Commission, and if the passing deadline is not met, if we could record yesterday in due time, we would record it. We recorded the earliest possible date, then it is possible for the Ministry to come to the Commission and justify when it can be done within the shortest possible time, and it can be amended at second reading. That is very well understood by all my fellow Members. But when I talk about society's disintegration and irritation, it seems to me that one of the ditches here wants to sway into the other ditch. I myself have said publicly that the worst thing we could do right now is the responsibility for Putin's or the new century Hitler's crimes to impose on all Russian-speaking people or to extend it to all Russians. I completely agree, and I agree with one hundred percent, but there is this other ditch who intends not to do anything. It is going to go on with what we have heard for 30 years: let us not do anything that could only contaminate, that could only divide. Colleagues! There are many people who are irritated by Latvia's independence. And in our sense this question is similar to that of Latvia. One state language - in fact, not just a record in the law - is a synonym and an integral part of an independent state of Latvia. Colleagues! It is right now that the Latvian legislator has to make a clear statement, send a message that Latvia is an independent, national state that does not doubt its fundamental values. Independently, independently! - from what signature will be these draft laws, in what order this will take, we will do our utmost to resolve the matter and achieve the goal during this parliamentary term. I call for the vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U41	Thank you. Please call me! Vote on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” (No. 1367/Lp13) transfer to the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, making it a responsible commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the draft law on the support of Ukrainian civilians presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U42	Hello, fellow Members, again! Our neighbour, Russia, is fighting against our ally, the European Union's Eastern Partnership country, Ukraine. Russia, as an aggressor in this situation, has violated a number of rules of international law, including the Geneva Conventions. According to the International Human Rights Organisation Amnesty International, Putin's regime has already managed to commit several war crimes by attacking kindergartens, hospitals and residential buildings. According to the UN Refugee Agency, more than a million people have gone to Ukraine since the Russian attack. The Agency has warned that four million people could leave the country in the coming weeks and months. Current information about Latvia shows that 1158 Ukrainian citizens have arrived in Latvia since the beginning of the military attack in Ukraine on 24 February. That is what data shows today. 153 visas issued, three applications for asylum. The number will increase, and it is important for us to help these people. Former so-called ‘Minister of Justice’ of the ‘Donetsk People's Republic’. It is necessary to define the actions of the relevant institutions (the Office of Citizenship and Migration Affairs, the State Border Guard, the Consular Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs) to support Ukrainian civilians and Ukrainian society. The draft law does not abolish or change the procedure for applying for and examining asylum, but provides for an additional mechanism for Ukrainian civilians to receive support, as well as regulate the right to reside and work in the Republic of Latvia. It is essential that Ukrainian civilians who are fleeing the armed conflict and for this reason enter the Republic of Latvia and who are unable to return to Ukraine during this conflict are given the opportunity to be granted the right to employment, thereby ensuring the economic needs of these persons. The draft law provides that minors of Ukrainian civilians have the right to education in the same procedure and in the same amount as minor asylum seekers in accordance with the laws and regulations establishing the right of asylum seekers to education. At the same time, unlike the asylum law, the draft law provides that Ukrainian civilians are provided with opportunities to receive education not only in state language, but also in minority language. The draft law provides that if Ukrainian civilians do not have the right to reside in the Republic of Latvia or have the right to reside, but do not have the right to employment and if they have a valid travel document, the Office of Citizenship and Migration Affairs, the State Border Guard or diplomatic and consular missions of the Republic of Latvia abroad may issue a long-term visa with the right to employment without restrictions for up to one year, with the possibility to extend. In order to support the employment of Ukrainian civilians after receiving a visa with a right to employment, it is envisaged to provide operational support from the State Employment Agency. Similarly, an exception to the conditions of employment requirements for third-country nationals is provided for in order to provide more operational support, i.e. not to require the employer to register the vacancy with the State Employment Agency. Nor will the legal provisions on the employment of foreigners and the amount of financial resources required require the employer to ensure that the salary is not lower than the gross wage in our country. In view of the fact that when recruiting a new employee, the first salary is paid after a month, an opportunity is provided for the employer... the right to receive a grant from the State Employment Agency in the amount of one minimum monthly salary... The law also lays down certain conditions for the employment of Ukrainian civilians in education and treatment. Ukrainian refugees will also be able to receive support for specific social problems, reduction of difficulties, capacity for social adaptation, social mentor and social worker services provided by the Society Integration Fund. I call on everyone to support the transfer of this draft law, its urgency and its adoption today, showing the solidarity and humanity of our country towards Ukrainian society. Let us help Ukraine as much as we can! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U43	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Was there any objection? ( The box “No! ”) ‘No longer existed.’ ) Please turn on the microphone for the Member Orlov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U44	I simply want to draw attention to the fact that, as Article 14 describes the employment of civilians in medical treatment, I want to call the Social and Labour Affairs Commission a joint responsibility. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Medicines cause noise.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U45	So there is a proposal on the handover of the draft law, stating that the co-responsible commission is also the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Please turn on the microphone for Gundar Many.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U46	Dear colleagues, I understand (Not heard.) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U47	Please the Many Microphones!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U48	I understand Vital Orlov's idea, but I have an invitation not to support his proposal, because if there is a co-responsible commission, we will adopt this draft law in a much longer term. We are interested in adopting it today in two readings in support of Ukraine. Therefore, Mr Orlov, I call on you not to be offended; I understand the logic, but at the moment the situation is that I ask you not to support Mr Orlov's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U49	Thank you. Mr. Orlov, you still insist? Okay, so...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U50	No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U51	Don't stand up. So don't insist. Mr Orlov withdraws his request for the joint committee. Thank you. Mr Orlov confirms this and the draft law is passed on to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, making it a responsible commission. Thank you. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Protected Services” submitted by the Commission of Human Rights and Public Affairs be referred to the Commission of Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? Please turn on the microphone for Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U52	I would like to speak against.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U53	So, Mr. Boris Cilevič has applied to speak against.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U54	Dear colleagues, I fully support the fact that we need to strengthen the methods of combating hate speech and the propaganda of war, and so on. So, of course, if you want to accuse me that I defend it and oppose it, it is a political matter, but the methods proposed to achieve this aim must be effective and respect human rights principles. I do not want to go into technological issues, but I call on you to note that these systems, which are in question, cannot be seen, seen and noticed from the outside. It is no longer a plate with a decoder, which can be seen from the edge and determined. In order to determine that a person is using this system, it is necessary to enter the apartment and access the computer or other system, TV, smart and so on. In order to do this, a judicial sanction is required, because, as we know, we have fundamental principles: inviolability of housing, inviolability of correspondence. This cannot be done without sanctions and without the consent of the person. So how can this provision be put into practice? Well, I heard from the applicants that it has such a preventive nature that people have to be warned that it is a violation, and it will already be... That's enough... If they don't know... and so on. But on the other hand, if we adopt a norm that is impossible to implement in practice, this effect can be exactly the opposite. Believe me, there will be sufficiently technically educated people who will explain that, yes, it is legally recorded, but it can't be verified in practice, and there won't be anything for you. Is that okay? I always feel very embarrassed when we discuss certain rules that are purely declaratory and that cannot be put into practice. And let us in some way mitigate its guarantees of home integrity and similar issues... I wouldn't want to let that happen either. That is why, in my view, we cannot achieve this objective with such methods. So far in fact, its sanctions and penalties for end-users... it is a very powerful tool, and whether it needs to be applied, it is another question, but the main question is whether it can be achieved precisely by means of these proposed methods. I don't have any confidence right now. During the discussion, the Commission mentioned some technological possibilities that could be identified through technology, but no specifics. Since, at this point, I cannot support such solutions, because I fear that this can only discredit this idea and its fully supported objective of limiting the propaganda of war and hate speech will not be achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U55	“About” has applied to speak Member Artuss Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U56	I was surprised by Boris Cylevich's speech. Colleagues, on February 24, when we all woke up and saw what happened in Ukraine, we saw that we looked at social networks and all or most of them had a variety of... millions... ideas of how to make the Kremlin propaganda channels hard. And, honourable Members, this cannot be done on the same day. At the moment, on 3 March, 46 propaganda channels have been closed - the Kremlin propaganda channels. The big giants have responded, including Facebook, including YouTube, and a number of these channels have been closed in the region that proclaimed the Kremlin's policy. About what this bill is about. Colleagues! Finally, at this point, we are legally present with these illegal satellite plates, the three-color boxes that are at the border. In this case, there have been consultations both... and with the ministers... Minister for the Interior, Minister for Justice... The NEPLP itself is the driving force... And in this case... Colleagues, this is a preventive draft law - so that these people who use these illegal TV boxes, illegal satellite signals... You can really buy a map of EUR 50 per year; put it in your satellite decoder and watch whatever you want. We don't even touch here on Smart TV, where... we can enter any application and open it still. Thank God, Samsung, LG has begun to leave the Russian market. And maybe speaking to them... They could look at their system... remove this Smart-ID file... But, my fellow Members, we're basically talking about these tricolors... unregistered boxes. We're talking about satellite plates. We are talking about illegal content, which is already prohibited in Latvia. And the problem is that in the border five years ago, let's assume, didn't know who the President of Latvia was, but knew what Lukashenko was... That was the case. At the moment, we have at least covered the whole territory of Latvia with the fact that the main channels are broadcast on terrestrial broadcasting, including radio. But, colleagues, here... I do not agree with Mr Cilevič. Of course, human rights... Mr. Cilevič may try to go that way, that now at every door like the Gestapo will come... And what's going to happen here... And enable this... Mr. Cilevič, that's not meant. You were sitting, you heard. The Chief of State Police, Mr Ruka, personally also supports this. In this context, the State Security Service also supports this so as to prevent us from closing down these plates so that they users know that they are breaking the law. Yes, of course, well, if you read, the letter on the paper... Now you can start to look... It's not true that at any door... that where the satellite plate is, the police will now break in and ask you to show anything on the TV. No, no! That will not be the case. But this, my fellow Members, will be one step - one of many more steps - which we have to do. Now... I believe that we are at a very good rhythm: we are moving forward at a speed so that the whole amount of these channels is already framed to ban. And it's getting pretty smooth right now. I am very grateful to the NEPLP for this investment, which is 24/7. And these proposals, amendments that are contained in the Protected Service Law, include exactly this. Therefore, my fellow Members, I ask for support for this draft law at first reading, for its urgency and for the next sitting of the Saeima, in one week's time, for its support at second, final, final reading. Tomorrow, at the meeting of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, we will look at the proposals that have been tabled (it will be, I hope, Boris Cilevič, also your proposal), so that we can take this step, one of the small ones, here on Thursday to the end... the great steps on this issue about illegal channels, the use of prohibited channels in the territory of Latvia... and not to affect the minds of people in the direction in which they are not allowed to do so. The people of our country must be protected. Please support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U57	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Protected Services” to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Dear colleagues, The following items are on the agenda: reports by the Bureau on own-initiative proposals submitted. The Saeima Presidium has received an own-initiative proposal submitted by the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Application – the draft decision “On the way forward of the 11 849 Latvian citizens’ collective application “On Tax Reduction for Electricity and Gas for All Citizens”. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? There is no objection. Consequently, the own-initiative proposal - the draft decision - is on the agenda for the sitting. The Saeima Bureau has received a Member... I am sorry, the own-initiative proposal submitted by the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications - the draft decision “On the way forward of the 11 491 collective application of Latvian citizens “On the policy of vaccination certificates based on data”. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal - the draft decision - on the agenda of today's sitting? There is no objection. Consequently, the own-initiative proposal - the draft decision - is on the agenda of the sitting. The Saeima Presidium has received the Member Viktora Valaiņa, Edgars Taukara, Didžas Šmita, Ulda Augulis, Jānis Vucana, Gunara Dūzes, Armanda Krauzes, Valeria Agešina, Arthur Rubika, Jānis Urbanoviča, Edgars Kucina, Jānis Tutina, Ivana Klementjeva, Vladimir Nikonova, Vjačeslava Dombrovska, Evija Papule, Julia Stepanenko, Māra Možvillo, Ramona Petraviča, Karina Sprūde and Alda Gobzema's own-initiative proposal on the draft decision on the parliamentary investigation commission "On the mistreatment of the Latvian government in the process of managing the pandemic, calling the names of political officials who have irreversibly negative consequences for Latvia!" Action 3’. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ ) There are therefore objections. We must therefore decide on the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of the next sitting. Members have not applied for this. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On Parliamentary Investigation Commission “To investigate the Latvian Government’s misaction in the process of managing the Covid–19 pandemic, by nameing the names of the political officials who have irreversibly negative consequences for Latvia!” actions” to be put on the agenda of the next sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 33, for - 45, for - 2. Consequently, the draft decision - the own-initiative proposal - does not appear on the agenda of the Saeima's next sitting. Are there any proposals for referrals to one of the commissions? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) So there are no proposals for referrals to one of the commissions. This own-initiative proposal is therefore rejected. Agenda for next sitting: Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Draft decision “On the dismissal of the judge of Riga district court Kristīne Evertovska from the position of judge”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U58	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, During the meeting of the Legal Commission on 22 February, the draft decision “On the dismissal of the judge Kristīne Evertovska of Riga District Court from the office of a judge” was reviewed. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, on April 4, 2022, I invite Kristīne Evertovska, a judge of Riga district court, to be dismissed from office of a judge at his own wish.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U59	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the dismissal of the judge Kristīne Evertovska from the office of judge of Riga district court! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. The draft decision ‘On the approval of Sally Vikentyeva as a district (city) court judge’. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U60	At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 22 February this year, the draft decision ‘On the approval of Sally Vikentyeva as a judge of a district (city) court’ was considered. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call on Sally Vikentyev to approve the judge of district (city) court without any limitation of his term of office. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U61	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the approval of Sally Vikentyeva as a district (city) court judge! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, It's time for a break. Before the break, notifications. 10.30 - Meeting of the Saeima Presidium and Fraction Council in the Red Hall. The name of the Member, Aldim Adamovich, for the announcement.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U62	Good morning, colleagues! I call on my fellow Members in the Group of Members to gather in the Yellow Hall in five minutes' time for cooperation with the Ukrainian Parliament. Yes, please, we have one formality... and the latest information from the Ambassador of Ukraine, as well as from the Members of Rada. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U63	Thank you. Before registration - before registration! - Another important statement. 27 February - a round birthday for our colleague Martin Stein. ( Milestones.) And we welcome him. (Applause) Dear colleagues, There's also a record of Members. Please call me! Please check-in mode! The name Andrejs Klementyevs to read the results of the registration as soon as they are ready. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Voika: “A why is Andrejs Klementyev?” ) The results of the registration will be read by Inese Voika. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Voika: “Do not take away my work, my work!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U64	Colleagues! Not registered: Aigars Bikše, Aldis Blumbergs, Sergejs Dolgopolovs, Ilmārs Dūritis... Is, Ilmārs Dūritis is, Ilze Indricsone, Janina Jalinska, Armands Krauze, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Maris Mičerevskis, Romanas Naudiņš, Igors Pimenovs, Karina Sprūde and Vita Anda Steel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U65	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U66	Honourable Members! I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room. We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. First of all, the amendments tabled to the agenda of the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau. The Commission of Human Rights and Public Affairs is asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Protected Services” to be included on the agenda of the sitting at first reading. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Zenta Tretjaka, Arturs Rubiks, Edgars Kucins, Jānis Tutins, Valery Agešins, Vitalijs Orlovs and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft decision “On the election of the Saeima Member Zenta Tretjaka to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. And Members of Zenta Tretjaka, Arthur Rubiks, Edgars Kucins, Jānis Tutins, Valerijs Agešins and others are asking to include on the agenda the draft decision “On the election of the Saeima Member Zenta Tretjaka to the Committee on Petitions”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. We are starting to look at the amended agenda. The draft laws are on the agenda. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Law on Taxation in Free Ports and Special Economic Zones’, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Jānis Cielēns.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U67	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, At its meeting on 1 March, the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxation in Free Ports and Special Economic Zones” before the second reading. One was received to the second reading: the proposal of the Minister of Transport, Teleels Linkaitis, that the law enters into force on the day following its announcement. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U68	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U69	No more proposals, no more proposals were received. The Commission unanimously supported this draft law. On behalf of the Commission, I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U70	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Taxation in Free Ports and Special Economic Zones” at second, final reading! Please, let's vote! Please get the result! No, 66, against and refrains. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Vocational Education”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Ilga Šuplinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U71	Hello! Lobby dyna! Oh, my God! The Commission for Education, Culture and Science has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Vocational Education” (No. 895/Lp13). 119 proposals have been received for the third reading. A number of these are Commission proposals developed in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Science and industry experts. I will remind you immediately that this draft law was prepared for several years and is of certain importance for further development of vocational education and training. That is, what has the law done so far? Firstly, there is a set of terminology that is linked to the continuation of the reform of the content of vocational education and training. Secondly, a transition from five levels of professional qualifications to eight levels of professional qualifications, which have been synchronised with eight levels of the Latvian Qualifications Framework, has been established. Thirdly, the country is in order... and evidence of professional qualifications. Fourthly, the statutes of vocational education and training institutions have been established. They are very important and will be assessed directly in the accreditation process. And more. The introduction of an institutional accreditation model in vocational education and training has begun. If we are also looking from the student perspective, then this law is very important, as one very important problem will be addressed. In particular, at present, those who study in vocational education and for some reason stop the learning process do not obtain any evidence. The draft law provides that in principle there will be an opportunity to receive proof of the module or... in certain cases, the acquisition of this professional part or, on the contrary, the general part. And specifically on the proposals. I would like to remind you once again that the number of proposals is 119. 1. - Commission proposal. Article 1 of the draft law, which provides for the replacement of the words "first level vocational higher education" throughout the text of the law with "short cycle vocational higher education". Since these words were already replaced throughout the law by other amendments made to that law, this article of the draft law is redundant. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U72	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U73	2. - Commission proposal. The term “professional qualification examination” is clarified in accordance with Article 6 of the Law, explaining that the professional qualification is certified by a document recognised by the State. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U74	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U75	3. - Commission proposal. This is a editorial clarification in line with other amendments made to this draft law, which provides that the accreditation of vocational education institutions will also assess compliance with a certain status of the institution. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U76	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U77	4. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. Clarifying the interpretation of the term “licensing of a vocational education programme” supported at second reading, excluding the words “or other institution defined by the Education Law”, bearing in mind that no such institution is registered at present. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U78	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U79	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The term “licensing of a vocational education programme” supported by second reading is clarified by excluding the words “or other institution defined by the Education Law”. In the Commission, the proposal is supported and included in proposal 4.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U80	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U81	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Complements the interpretation of the term ‘professional further education’, which is supported at second reading, by means of a new sentence, providing that requirements for the acquisition of professional qualifications not included in the structure of sectoral qualifications are laid down in regulatory acts. In the Commission, the proposal has been supported, including 8. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U82	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U83	7. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. It is proposed that a new interpretation of the term "professional continuing education", supported by second reading, should be given consideration to the fact that, as a result of the discussion, a Commission version was developed to clarify the term's interpretation. The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U84	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U85	8 / 8 - Commission proposal. The second reading is supported by a clarification of the term ‘professional further education’, which states that it is a specific form of vocational education and training and includes the following: 6. - the clarification proposed by the Legal Office in its proposal. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U86	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U87	9. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. It is proposed that a new interpretation of the term "professional development", supported by a second reading, should be given consideration to the fact that, as a result of the discussions, a Commission version was developed to clarify the term's interpretation. This proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U88	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U89	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Commission proposal. Clarifying the interpretation of the term "professional development" supported at second reading, stating that this is a special form of vocational education and, as with the previous term, adding a further sentence that the requirements for the development of professional qualifications not included in the structure of sectoral qualifications are laid down by law and regulation. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U90	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U91	11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The new wording defines the text of Article 3 ‘Activities of the Law’, which states that the implementation of professional higher education and the granting of relevant professional qualifications are governed by this Law and the Law on Higher Education. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U92	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U93	12. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. The second paragraph of Section 4 of the Law on Vocational Education and Training (on Vocational Higher Education) is repealed, taking into account that the division into cycles is indicated in the law... term... Part I: The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U94	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U95	13. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Clarifying the wording of the third paragraph of Article 6 supported at second reading. The text is clarified by replacing the words ‘directive education’ with the words ‘vocational education’. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U96	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U97	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Commission proposal. The working group reviewed the wording of Rule 6, which was supported at second reading, in order to arrange for the composition of the article and the wording of the paragraphs. This proposal supplements the fourth and fifth paragraphs of the article, indicating which issue a certificate of formal qualifications and evidence of professional education and training recognised by the State. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U98	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U99	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Commission proposal. Article 6 is supplemented by a new paragraph determining who is to be issued a certificate on basic vocational education or a certificate on vocational training. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U100	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U101	16. - Commission proposal. The sixth paragraph of Article 6 supported at second reading is expressed as the seventh paragraph, clarifying the wording (on the issue of professional secondary education diplomas and certificates of professional qualifications). The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U102	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U103	17. - Commission proposal. The seventh paragraph of Article 6 supported at second reading is expressed as the tenth paragraph of the article, specifying the wording in which the professional qualification certificate is issued to the learner. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U104	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U105	18. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. In a new version, the eighth paragraph of Article 6 on the service of documents on the part of vocational education and training is proposed. The type of that document has been transferred to Article 26 of the law, so that the proposal has been partially supported and included in the Commission 86. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U106	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U107	19. - Commission proposal. The eighth paragraph of Article 6 on the service of documents on the part of vocational education and training supported at second reading shall be excluded. The type of that document has been transferred to Article 26 of the Act. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U108	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U109	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. The ninth paragraph of Article 6 supported by second reading shall be clarified for cases where a diploma on professional secondary education is awarded to learners. In the Commission, the proposal has been partly supported and included 21. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U110	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U111	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Commission proposal. The ninth paragraph of Article 6 supported at second reading shall be expressed as the eighth paragraph of the article on the cases where a diploma on professional secondary education is awarded to learners. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U112	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U113	22. - Commission proposal. Article 6 shall be supplemented by the ninth paragraph, which provides that a diploma for short cycle vocational higher education shall be awarded subject to compliance with the provisions of the Law on Higher Education. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U114	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U115	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Commission proposal. The tenth paragraph of Article 6 supported by second reading is deleted, given that the issue of a certificate of professional qualifications specifies the part of the article concerned, which is already covered by the 17th proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U116	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U117	24. - Commission proposal. The three sub-paragraphs of Article 6 supported at second reading have been clarified, provided that the condition that the educational documents referred to in those sub-paragraphs may be issued by accredited bodies is already included in the fourth and fifth subparagraphs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U118	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U119	25. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. The 14th paragraph of the article, supported at second reading, provides that the levels of professional qualifications recognised by the State shall also be specified in the evidence of professional qualifications. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U120	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U121	26. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editative clarification replacing the word ‘conditions’ in Article 17, point 5.1, with the word ‘order’. The Commission has supported and included 27. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U122	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U123	27. - Commission proposal. The wording of Article 7 5.1 provides that the Cabinet of Ministers shall also lay down a model of the document on the acquisition of part of the vocational education and training programme and the procedure of issue. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U124	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U125	28. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. A clarification of Article 7(9) of the Act, considering that at second reading the term ‘examination centre’ was replaced by ‘branch examination centre’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U126	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U127	29. - Commission proposal. The second-reading supplement to Article 7 of the Law on the Competence of the Cabinet of Ministers shall be specified. Paragraph 11.1 is added, which provides that the Cabinet of Ministers shall approve the rules for accreditation of vocational education institutions, including the procedure for applying and evaluating the conditions established by law for the relevant status of vocational education institution. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U128	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U129	30. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. The wording of Article 7(13) of the law is clarified, bearing in mind that paragraph 13 has resulted in a recast as a result of the discussions. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U130	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U131	31. - Commission proposal. The wording of paragraph 13 of Article 7 of the Law on delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers to determine the procedure in which vocational education institutions and examination centres of the sector perform assessment of professional competence acquired outside the formal education system, and pricing of paid services provided within the framework thereof. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U132	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U133	32. - Commission proposal. Clarified version of paragraph 13.2 of Article 7 supported at second reading, specifying that the Cabinet of Ministers approves price list of paid services provided within the framework of accreditation of professional education institutions and sector examination centres for the licensing of vocational education programmes. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U134	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U135	33. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. A clarification by replacing the words ‘with the exception of study programmes’ used at the delegate point by ‘with the exception of professional higher education programmes’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U136	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U137	34. - Commission proposal. Paragraph 15.4 of Article 7 supported at second reading, which provided for the establishment of procedures for drawing up a model vocational education and training programme, is hereby deleted. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U138	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U139	35. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. A clarification of the scope of information to be submitted for the monitoring of graduates of vocational education is proposed to Para 15.5 of the Cabinet of Ministers, which is supported at second reading, taking into account that the draft law specifies the relevant versions on monitoring of graduates of vocational education programmes. The appropriate delegation of the Cabinet of Ministers was prepared by a proposal of the Commission. The 35th proposal was therefore partly supported by the Commission and incorporated in 36. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U140	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U141	36. - Commission proposal. As has already been explained in the proposal 35, the draft law specifies the corresponding versions on the monitoring of graduates of vocational education and training programmes. This proposal establishes an appropriate delegation from the Cabinet of Ministers. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U142	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U143	37. - Commission proposal. Supplement the Article of the Cabinet of Ministers with a new paragraph that the Cabinet of Ministers shall determine the requirements and procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications or part thereof. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U144	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U145	38. - Commission proposal. A paragraph providing that the Ministry shall ensure recognition of professional competences acquired outside the formal education system shall be excluded from the competence section of the Ministry of Education and Science, provided that the function for vocational education institutions is to carry out the assessment of the competences acquired outside the formal education system. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U146	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U147	39. - Commission proposal. Complements the Article of Competence of the Ministry of Education and Science with a new paragraph providing that the founders of vocational education institutions... set functions for the harmonisation of vocational education and training programmes for themselves... Subsidiaries are carried out by the Ministry of Education and Science. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U148	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U149	40. - Commission proposal. By analogy with proposal 39, this competence is extended to other ministries subordinate to national vocational education institutions. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U150	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U151	41. - Commission proposal. Clarifying the wording of the second reading, taking into account the provision for licensing of transitional programmes and accreditation of institutions. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U152	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U153	42. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. A clarification of the version supported at second reading, providing that the Councils of Sectoral Experts have the right to request the vocational education institutions and state institutions the information necessary for the Board of Sectoral Experts within the scope of the competence established by this Law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U154	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U155	43. - Commission proposal. Clarifying the wording of the second reading, taking into account the provision for licensing of the transitional programme and accreditation of institutions. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U156	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U157	44. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Janson. A new version of Section 12(5) and 5.1 of the Law on the coordination of the activities of sectoral expert councils, including the cultural sector and the creative industries sector council, is proposed. The Commission has partially supported and included 47 and 48. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U158	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U159	45. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. A clarification is proposed for the fifth part of Article 12 on the coordination of the activities of sectoral expert councils, including the establishment by the Cabinet of Ministers of the procedure for coordinating these activities. The Commission has partially supported and included 48. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U160	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U161	46. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Janson. Supplement to Article 12, which provides that the Cabinet of Ministers shall determine the procedure in which the activities of the councils of sectoral experts are coordinated. The Commission has partially supported and included 48. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U162	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U163	47. - Commission proposal. After evaluating the relevant versions of Section 12 paragraphs, supported by the Ministry of Culture, the Legal Bureau and the second reading, the Commission's proposal clarifies the wording of Section Five, by stating that the activities of Councils of sectoral experts are coordinated by the Employers' Confederation of Latvia, with the exception of the sectors specified in this Law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U164	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U165	48. - Commission proposal. Further to the above, Article 12 is supplemented by three new parts on the coordination of the activities of sectoral expert councils in other sectors, providing that the Cabinet of Ministers lays down the arrangements for the coordination of the activities of sectoral experts' councils as well as that the coordination of the activities of sectoral experts' councils is financed from the state budget. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U166	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U167	49. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The introductory paragraph of Article 11 of the draft law shall be clarified by adding a reference to the chapter of the law, which shall be supplemented by a new article. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U168	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U169	50. - Commission proposal. In Article 13, second paragraph, the word ‘recognition’ shall be replaced by the word ‘assessment’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U170	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U171	51. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. It is encouraged to supplement the article of the Sectoral Examination Centre with a new part on the accreditation of the Sectoral Examination Centres. The Commission has partially supported and included 52. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U172	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U173	52. - Commission proposal. Complements the article of the sector examination centre with a new part on accreditation of the sector examination centre. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U174	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U175	53. - Commission proposal. Complements the article of the sector examination centre with a new part that determines what information about sector examination centres will be available in the State Education Information System. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U176	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U177	54. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The first paragraph of Article 14 shall be clarified by providing that vocational education institutions are to be established, reorganised and dissolved in accordance with the provisions of the Education Law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U178	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U179	55. - Commission proposal. The seventh paragraph of Section 15 of the Law shall be repealed. Its content has been moved to appropriate articles on accreditation of vocational education and training institutions and sector examination centres. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U180	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U181	56. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The second paragraph of Article 16.1 supported by the second reading shall be revised. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U182	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U183	57. - Commission proposal. Complementatively, the second-reading paragraph 16.1 is clarified, bearing in mind that the Commission agrees that the law will establish not the types of vocational education institutions but the statute. The second subparagraph shall be specified which may be included in the name of the institution. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U184	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U185	58. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. The fourth paragraph of Article 16.1 shall be clarified, providing that compliance with the type of vocational training shall be assessed in the accreditation process. The Commission has partly supported and included 59. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U186	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U187	59. - Commission proposal. The fourth paragraph of Article 16.1 shall be clarified, providing that the status of a vocational education institution is determined by its founder and that compliance with that status is assessed in the accreditation process. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U188	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U189	60. - Commission proposal. Article 16.1 shall be supplemented by four new parts specifying the conditions to be taken into account when assessing compliance with the status concerned. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U190	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U191	61. - Commission proposal. In the first paragraph of Article 16.2, the reference to the national standard of vocational education and training at second reading shall be excluded. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U192	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U193	62. - Commission proposal. Complements the second-reading rule on technique with a new part, providing that the technique is also entitled to implement vocational education and training programmes in those professional qualifications in which it implements appropriate vocational training programmes. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U194	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U195	63. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The wording of the third paragraph of Article 16.2 supported at second reading shall be clarified by replacing the words ‘regional or sectoral’ by ‘regional or sectoral’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U196	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U197	64. - Commission proposal. The operational objective set out for the techniques in Article 16.2 shall be specified in the second reading - to organise professional qualification examinations in order to assess the professional competence acquired outside the formal education system. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U198	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U199	65. - Commission proposal. The criteria laid down for the technique in Article 16.2 as defined by the Cabinet of Ministers shall be excluded at second reading as the above criteria or conditions have been transferred to Article 16.1; Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U200	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U201	66. - Commission proposal. In the first paragraph of Article 16.3, the reference to the national standard of vocational education and training at second reading shall be excluded. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U202	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U203	67. - Commission proposal. The operational objective set out in Article 16.3 of the second reading for centres of competence in art shall be specified - to organise professional qualification examinations in order to assess the professional competence acquired outside the formal education system. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U204	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U205	68. - Commission proposal. The criteria set out in Article 16.3 for the Centre of Excellence in Art included in the second reading, which will be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers, are excluded because the above criteria or conditions have been transferred to Article 16.1. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U206	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U207	69. - Commission proposal. In the first paragraph of Article 16.4, the reference to the national standard of vocational education and training at second reading shall be excluded. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U208	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U209	70. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. The second paragraph of Section 16.4, supported by the second reading, is proposed to be reworded, stating that professional secondary school is also entitled to implement professional development education programmes. The Commission has partly supported and included 71. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U210	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U211	71. - Commission proposal. The second paragraph of Section 16.4, which was supported at second reading, states that vocational secondary education is also entitled to implement further vocational education and professional development education programmes, while vocational secondary education in the field of “Art” - also vocational orientation education programmes. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U212	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U213	72. - Commission proposal. In addition to the third paragraph of Article 16.4 supported at second reading, the aim of the professional secondary school in the field of “Art” is also to carry out methodological work in the field of education in the field of “Art” region’s professional orientations for educational institutions. This operational objective has been moved from second reading, supported by the fifth paragraph of this article. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U214	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U215	73. - Commission proposals. The fourth paragraph of Section 16.4, which was supported at second reading, states that professional secondary school is entitled to organise professional qualification examinations in order to assess the professional competence acquired outside the formal education system. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U216	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U217	74. - Commission proposal. The fifth paragraph of Article 16.4, which was supported at second reading, is deleted because its content has been moved to the other parts of this article by means of previous proposals. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U218	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U219	75. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editative clarification. In the wording of the second reading, the word ‘consultations’ shall be replaced by the words ‘professional competences’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U220	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U221	76. - Commission proposal. The third paragraph of Article 16.5, which was supported at second reading, states that the vocational training centre is entitled to organise professional qualifications examinations in order to assess the professional competence acquired outside the formal education system. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U222	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U223	77. - Commission proposal. Following the proposal of the Ministry of Education and Science, the law has been supplemented by a new article stating that techniques and vocational secondary schools are also entitled to implement general primary education or general secondary education programme in cooperation with the Administration of Prisons, with the permission of the Minister of Education and Science. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U224	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U225	78. - Commission proposal. Taking into account that the status of the Centre of Competence for Vocational Education and Training is excluded from law, the reference referred to in the sixth paragraph of Article 17.1 is clarified, changing that the reference in that paragraph concerns art for centres of competence for vocational education and training. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U226	Members are in favour. 79. - Commission proposal. In accordance with the proposals supported by second reading in Chapter V of the Law and evaluating the proposals received for the third reading, the draft law has been supplemented by two new articles in Chapter IV of the Law. The first is on the evaluation of the monitoring of graduates of vocational education programmes and their integration into the labour market; the second is on the register of graduates of vocational education programmes. Supported by the Commission. Let's start a debate. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U227	Hello, colleagues! On the one hand, I ask the rapporteur to take a bit of breath, but on the other hand, this really is a very important amendment to the Law on Vocational Education, because we are always talking about, when we are talking about the education process, how purposefully the public budget is used, what is the return from the process, especially when it comes to vocational education programmes. This applies to all levels of vocational education, but especially to what we call vocational secondary schools, techniques. With this proposal, as the rapporteur has already said, the Law on Vocational Education is supplemented by two important articles, which essentially provide for monitoring, monitoring of graduates, and the keeping of adequate registers throughout this system of educational registers, which, together with the activities currently carried out by the Ministry of Economics, would allow for a more targeted view of what educational programmes are being implemented and what educational programmes are planned for the future, so that they also have some factual coverage, because it has often been the case that educational institutions still have independence when designing educational programmes for the future. Then it is often that what we like ourselves better, we also offer it, but that is not always what the real economy needs most. Then, with the introduction of these rules, we, the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, together with the experts we had, are trying, however, to make what is being implemented in the education system more coherent with what the real economy is demanding. On the other hand, we are very well aware that, in the current situation in particular, the forecasts for the future will become increasingly unclear and unclear. And it will always be the case that we have to catch what is already practically happening in the economy. Its development is so rapid that we are not working with the programming process, and this means, all the more so, that the so-called lifelong learning activities must be given much more importance, where people who already have some qualifications must be given the opportunity to supplement these qualifications, so as to ensure quickly what the economy needs. The maintenance of such registers, as referred to in these articles, essentially provides a database that then is the real people that could also be re-educated. I do not require a vote. I asked for a word to explain these norms, which have been proposed by the relevant commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U228	Thank you. I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U229	On behalf of the Commission, I can only say that there was certainly no discussion on the implementation of the monitoring of graduates at this stage of education. That is something that everyone clearly supports. But let us hope very much that this process will not last and, like monitoring higher education graduates, will allow us not only to predict but also to act proactively in the management of techniques and vocational education institutions in order to plan further work. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U230	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U231	80. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editative clarification in the introductory part of Article 22.1 by replacing the words ‘sectoral set of requirements’ with the words ‘sectoral set of requirements’. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U232	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U233	81. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It clarifies paragraph 5 of Section 25, first paragraph of the Law, establishing that the title and level of professional qualifications as well as the level of the qualification framework of Latvia are defined in the vocational education programme. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U234	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U235	82. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Janson. It is planned to supplement the wording of Section 25(3) of the Law, which is supported at second reading, with the field of art in which vocational secondary education, vocational education, further vocational education and professional development education programmes are co-ordinated with the competent state administration institution established by the Cabinet of Ministers. In the Commission, the proposal has been partly supported, including 83. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U236	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U237	83. - a proposal from the committee responsible. In specifying the above-mentioned proposal of the Ministry of Culture, the wording of the third paragraph of Section 25, supported at second reading, also includes the field of art in which the programme of vocational secondary education, further vocational education and professional development education is in addition coordinated with the competent state administration established by the Cabinet of Ministers. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U238	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U239	84. - a proposal from the committee responsible. A more precise addition to the fifth paragraph of Article 25, supported by second reading, supplemented by the words “professional secondary education” followed by the word “programme”. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U240	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U241	85. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The new wording refers to Article 27 of the draft law, subject to the fact that only one paragraph is amended in the first paragraph. In the Commission, the proposal has been supported and 86 included. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U242	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U243	86. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Having retained the version of the 85th proposal proposed by the Legal Bureau, the amendment to the third paragraph concerning the document on the provision of part-time vocational education and training has been added in addition. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U244	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U245	87. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. It is encouraged to specify which persons are admitted to secondary education programmes. The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U246	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U247	88. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Following an evaluation of the discussion on proposal 87, a Commission proposal was drawn up to exclude the first paragraph of Article 28 of the draft law, which amended the second paragraph of Article 27, thus maintaining it in its current form. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U248	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U249	89. - a proposal from the committee responsible. A clarification of the third paragraph of Article 27, taking into account that, as amended by this draft law, the term ‘level 1 vocational higher education’ is replaced by ‘short cycle vocational higher education’. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U250	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U251	90. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. Proposal for a new wording of the second-reading amendment to the sixth paragraph of Article 27 on admission requirements for continuing vocational education and training. The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U252	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U253	91. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. Explanation for the second reading of the second paragraph of Article 27 on admission at later stages of training, replacing the word ‘educational’ with the word ‘person’. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U254	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U255	92. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The clarification in point 4 of the second paragraph of Article 28, taking into account that, as amended by this draft law, the term ‘level 1 vocational higher education’ is replaced by ‘short cycle vocational higher education’. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U256	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U257	93. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The second paragraph of Article 29 of the draft law, which provides that ‘the duration of the acquisition of further vocational education and training shall be according to the national standard of continuing vocational training’, is to be excluded. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U258	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U259	94. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The second paragraph of Article 29.1, which is supported at second reading, shall be excluded in respect of those who carry out the assessment of the competences acquired outside the formal education system, taking into account that these functions are indicated in the articles of the relevant institutions. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U260	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U261	95. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The third paragraph of Article 29.1, which is supported at second reading, shall be excluded for the purpose of assessing the competences acquired outside the formal education system, given that this function is indicated in the articles of the relevant institutions and certain exceptions are no longer necessary. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U262	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U263	96. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. It is proposed to clarify the article supported at second reading on the Register of Graduates of Vocational Education and Training Programmes, by changing its title and the wording of the article to "Monitoring Graduates". Two separate articles have been created following discussions within the Commission and this proposal has been partly supported by the Commission, including 79. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U264	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U265	97. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Article 29.3 on the Register of Graduates of Vocational Education Programmes, which was supported at second reading, is closed, as the wording of the Article has been incorporated into Chapter IV of the Law as Section 21.2 with the already reviewed proposal 79. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U266	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U267	98. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The second-reading paragraph 29.4 on the assessment of the inclusion of graduates of vocational education programmes in the labour market, as the wording of the article has been incorporated into Section 21.1 of Chapter IV of the Law with the already reviewed proposal 79, shall be excluded. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U268	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U269	99. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The wording of Article 30, which was supported at second reading, is clarified by two paragraphs. In the Commission, the proposal has been partly supported, including 100. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U270	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U271	100. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The inclusion of the above-mentioned proposal by the Legal Bureau clarifies the wording of Article 30 supported at second reading, the three parts being expressed as two parts and the fourth part specifying the wording on the price list of paid services provided in the framework of the licensing of vocational education and training programmes. This shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U272	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U273	101. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The wording of the first paragraph of Article 30.1 on accreditation of vocational education and training institutions, supported at second reading, is clarified. The Commission proposal recasts Article 30.1 as a whole and thus partly supports it, with 103 amendments. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U274	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U275	102. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The wording of the fourth paragraph of Article 30.1 on the organisation of accreditation of vocational education and training institutions, supported at second reading, shall be clarified. The Commission proposal recasts Article 30.1 as a whole and thus partly supports it, with 103 amendments. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U276	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U277	103. - a proposal from the committee responsible. For all Article 30.1 “Accreditation of a Professional Education Institution” a new version of six paragraphs of the Section establishing the time limit for accreditation, the time period for accreditation, how compliance with the status of the institution established by the founders is assessed in the framework of accreditation, that accreditation is organised by the State Education Quality Service in accordance with the regulations approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, as well as the fact that information about accredited institutions is available in the State Education Information System. The proposal was approved by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U278	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U279	104. - a proposal from the committee responsible. In Article 31 of the Law, the word “accredited” shall be replaced by the word “licensed” as well as, having regard to the fact that these amendments exclude the status of a vocational education centre of excellence, specify the existing norm on a vocational education institution which corresponds to the status of an accredited technique or art education centre of excellence, receive state budget funding for continuing education of teachers and methodical support vocational education institutions for the performance of functions. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U280	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U281	105. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. It is proposed to present in a new version the third part of Section 31 of the Law, the essence of the part of the central examination of professional qualifications... the use is replaced by an examination of professional qualifications. The proposal has been clarified (Rolling Noise: The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) , offering only the replacement of these words in the Commission's proposal. This proposal has therefore been partly supported by the Commission, 106 of which are included. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U282	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U283	106. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Includes the idea of replacing the above words in the ministerial proposal. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U284	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U285	107. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Transitional provisions In the light of the framework for amendments, the Commission, in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Science, substantially recast the supplementary transitional provisions provided for at second reading. This proposal rewords points 27 and 28 of the transitional provisions on the alignment of amendments made to this Law with the Education Law, the General Education Law, the University of Higher Education Law and the consistency of the terms used in other laws and regulations with the terms used in this Law. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U286	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U287	108. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Paragraph 29 and paragraph 30 of the transitional provisions on amendments related to the date of entry into force of the transition to eight levels of professional qualifications on 1 August 2022 and the adequacy of the levels of professional qualifications used to date in the qualification framework of Latvia are reworded. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U288	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U289	109. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Point 31 of the transitional provisions, which provides that the founder of an establishment of vocational education and training shall, before 31 December 2022, determine the status of an establishment of vocational education and training as amended by this draft law in relation to the status of establishments of vocational education and training. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U290	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U291	110. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Point 32 of the transitional provisions. Provision shall be made for institutions of vocational education which have acquired the status of a centre of competence for vocational education before the entry into force of these amendments, until the end of this year, to continue to receive the funding of the state budget for the performance of the specified functions as specified by this Law. In turn, from 1 January 2023 until regular accreditation, this funding will be received if, according to the norms of this Law, the institution has the status of the centre of competence of technique or art education. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U292	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U293	111. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Point 33 of the Transitional Provisions. It is planned that the Cabinet of Ministers shall take a decision on the status of Riga 3rd vocational school by 31 December 2023, providing students with opportunities to continue education in an appropriate educational programme. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U294	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U295	112. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Point 34 of the transitional provisions. Provision shall be made for institutions of vocational education which, until the entry into force of this Law, implement accredited general primary education or general secondary education programmes, to continue to implement them until accreditation is carried out in compliance with Article 30.1 of this Law. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U296	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U297	113. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Point 35 of the transitional provisions. The Ministry of Education and Science and the Ministry of Economics shall make public the statutory assessment of the inclusion in the labour market of graduates of vocational education and training until 31 December 2024. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U298	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U299	114. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Point 36 of the transitional provisions. It is stated that, in accordance with the law, vocational development and continuing education programmes may be implemented without further licensing from 1 January 2023. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U300	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U301	115. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Point 37 of the transitional provisions. The amendments on the licensing of vocational education and training programmes are foreseen to enter into force on 1 January 2023. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U302	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U303	116. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The transitional provisions were supplemented by points 38, 39 and 40 concerning the amendment of the provisions relating to the accreditation of vocational education and training institutions. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U304	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U305	117. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Point 41 of the transitional provisions. The amendments to the education insurance are foreseen to enter into force on 1 August 2023 throughout the school year. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U306	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U307	118. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Point 42 of the transitional provisions. Its 19 sub-paragraphs specify the regulations and time limits within which the Cabinet of Ministers shall issue corresponding amendments to this Law. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U308	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U309	119. - the last one is the proposal from the committee responsible. The law shall enter into force on 1 April 2022. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U310	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Arvil Asheraden.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U311	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Thank you to the rapporteur, who, to say that, was through 119 proposals for the report. On behalf of the Commission, I would just like to say that this extremely important law, the Amendments to the Law on Vocational Education, will enter into force on 1 April, as envisaged by this proposal, and it is very important for us to understand that this is one of the two major fundamental works that this Saeima and this Education, Culture and Science Commission have done. Amendments to the Law on Higher Education, which introduced a rapid process of modernisation of higher education, also this law provides for a programme for the next four years, which will fully modernise vocational education. Why is it important to talk about this? The field of vocational education is not limited to secondary vocational education, it also covers higher education, in fact it has a huge radiation... for lifelong learning, too. This law, clearly separating academic qualifications from professional qualifications, aligning professional qualifications with the European professional qualifications area, really creates a modern vocational education system in Latvia, and it will make huge changes to the higher education system, where academic qualifications and professional qualifications will have to be separated by separate documents. The last thing I want to say... One example... we have grown in demand for adult education at an enormous rate, and there has been very, very chaotic... In that room... everyone does whatever they want. This law regulates this space by providing that all educational institutions will have to be accredited in a given manner, reporting on what they do. It also gives an opportunity, for example, to an institution like airBaltic... A pilot centre that provides one of the world's top-skilled education, which is pilot education, which corresponds to the seventh European qualification level... It was not possible to register such in Latvia. At the moment, this law allows this, it will be possible to do so. So we arrange and create our education system, we apply the education space to the rest of the European education area, both in vocational education, in higher education and in adult education. I would like to say that the Commission has done a huge amount of work, dealt with over 220 proposals, discussed them very carefully. As you can see... I think this is an excellent example of this being debated and does not lead to a debate here in the Saeima. Thank you very much both to the Commission and the academic sector that took part, and also to the various ministries that worked on this draft law. Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U312	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U313	Yes, on behalf of the Commission, I can highlight another important nuance that is strengthened by this law: it is the role of professional councils in the sector in planning future activities of techniques, as well as in selecting future professions, because it is clear that future professions, as you know very well... for this moment 60 per cent... we cannot say what will be needed, for example, in 2025. I therefore very much hope that this will also be an opportunity for industry professionals to cooperate with techniques in a much more efficient and targeted way. The proposal is supported by the Commission. We've reviewed all 119...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U314	Members... Wait, wait, wait, wait... Members also support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U315	We have examined all 119 proposals. The Commission for Education, Culture and Science has supported the draft law at third reading. I ask the Saeima to support the draft law in the third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U316	Thank you to the rapporteur. Thank you, Mrs Šuplinska, you spoke professionally, describing every proposal in substance. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Vocational Education” in the third, final reading! Please, let's vote! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Draft Act “Amendments to the Law on Electricity Tax”, third reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Jānis Cielēns.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U317	Hello, colleagues, again! The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electricity Tax” (No. 1284/Lp13) at third reading. Thank you to the Ministry of Finance - the draft law is very well drafted. No proposals have been received for the third reading. The Commission supported this draft law. I also call on the Saeima to support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U318	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electricity Tax” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social Affairs and Labour, Member Evita Zālīte-Grosa.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U319	Hello, colleagues! The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs has examined and supported the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits” prior to the third reading. Three proposals have been received. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Provision is made for the right to state social benefits to be granted to persons who have been granted alternative status and to members of their families who permanently reside in the territory of Latvia. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U320	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U321	2. - Proposal by Evita Zalīte-Gross, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare. The arrangements for the payment of family state benefits to adoptors, guardians and foster families shall be specified. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U322	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U323	3. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. The transitional provisions shall be laid down at the time of entry into force of the law. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U324	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U325	I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U326	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Sandis Riekstins.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U327	Hello, colleagues! At third reading, we will consider draft law on Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement (No. 851/Lp13). I would remind you that the draft law has been drafted by the Ministry of Finance in order to improve the regulation of the Public Procurement Law regarding the reasons for exclusion of candidates and tenderers, to ensure that only honest candidates and tenderers can participate in public procurement and to supplement the law with a new regulation regarding the register of contracts. 31 proposals were received at the third reading. 1. - Mr Zakatistova's proposal... Likely, the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, which provides for the addition of exceptions to the procurement procedure. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U328	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U329	2. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The eighth and ninth paragraphs of Article 9 of the Law (on exclusion of a tenderer from participation in a procurement) are to be clarified. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U330	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U331	3. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It is envisaged to clarify the applicability of the law for the procurement of investigative and security services. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U332	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U333	4. - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Zakaistov. Provision shall be made for the extension of the criteria determining the relationship between the contracting authority and the tenderer or tenderer. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U334	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U335	5. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U336	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U337	6. - Member Nemir's proposal. It is envisaged that the exclusion rules for candidates and tenderers be revised. The proposal has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U338	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U339	7. - Member Zarin's proposal. It is envisaged that the exclusion rules for candidates and tenderers be revised. There is no support in the Commission. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U340	Are Members willing to vote? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of 7. - Member Zarina's proposal! Please, let's vote! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U341	8 / 8 - a proposal from the committee responsible. Provision shall be made for supplementing the exclusion rules for candidates and tenderers. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U342	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U343	9. - Member Zamura's proposal. Provision shall be made for the amount of procurement from which the exclusion rules for candidates and tenderers apply. The proposal has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U344	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U345	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Provision shall be made for the amount of the procurement of works or services awarded by the tenderer from which the conditions for exclusion of candidates and tenderers set out in the second paragraph of Article 42 apply. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U346	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U347	11. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It is envisaged to clarify the conditions for exclusion of candidates and tenderers. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U348	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U349	12. - a proposal from the committee responsible specifying the time limits for the exclusion of the candidate or tenderer. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U350	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U351	13. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U352	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U353	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Nemir's proposal. It provides for the exclusion of the seventh paragraph of Article 42 of the law provided for in Article 5 of the draft law. The proposal has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U354	Let us start a debate. The name to Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U355	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, again! This proposal, in fact, provides for a link with proposal 6, which is not supported by the Commission, but I consider it important, however, to express the substance of this proposal. The substance of the case is that the tenderer who is currently excluded from participation in tenders is, in fact, excluded on two grounds. First of all, the applicant has violated competition rules. In the present case, the proposed amendments address this issue in the context of the Competition Council’s opinion as to whether the applicant in question was involved in one of the cases of distortion of competition. This is a very wise and very good proposal, but it will undoubtedly require a very high capacity of the Competition Council. Let us imagine these procurements, which are actually divided into three levels. There are large purchases that may be carried out centrally by ministries, which are already smaller, but which can also be large enough, and there are some purchases by individual institutions that may be very small. If each of the members of the Procurement Commission turn to the Competition Council for an opinion, given that these cases will also be attributable to the responsibility of the members of the Procurement Commission itself, of course they will do so in almost every case. In such a case, the Competition Council will need an extremely high level of capacity to assess the participation of each potential distortion of competition; this means that the actual delivery of these opinions will be the day-to-day of the Competition Council and will therefore require a very high level of capacity. Whether this provision is also linked to the allocation of additional funding to set up a separate chapter in the Competition Council, which will only deal with it, is not at all dealt with in this draft law. The other part is related to reputational risks. Dear colleagues, If we live in a legal state, it is very wise to think about such circumstances - in the context of the opinions, decisions and judgments of the relevant authorities - because otherwise it will be a little bit like witch hunting. This will be the case when different interpretations of norms will be made. In this case, do we not also open up a little to the risk of corruption, because several applicants will be able to be assessed by the Procurement Commission only on the basis of a set of subjective circumstances? I think this is a rather high risk. I think it is important to talk about this. And this proposal is what makes the exclusion of one of the tenderers to be based on a decision of the competent authority or a judgment and... establishing that the Cabinet of Ministers is the one that establishes the list of infringements of professional activity. This proposal was initially supported by the Commission, but it was re-voted and voted by a majority... was changed. I will therefore call for this to be supported this time and for this draft law to be recast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U356	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U357	On behalf of the Commission, I would just remind you that the proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U358	Members want a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 14. - Member Nemir's proposal! Please, let's vote! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U359	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Zarin's proposal. This provides for the exclusion of the number and the word ‘7 and’ in the seventh paragraph of Article 42 of the draft law. The proposal has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U360	Members want a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 15. - Member Zarina's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 18, it's against - 55, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U361	16. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It shall be provided that the wording and numbering of Article 42 provided for in Article 5 are clarified. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U362	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U363	17. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Editable. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U364	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U365	18. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Editable. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U366	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U367	19. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Provision shall be made for the submission by the supplier of a European single procurement procedure document for subcontractors with a value of at least EUR 10 000 for the works or services to be carried out. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U368	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U369	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Zamura's proposal. It is envisaged to specify the criteria governing sub-contracting. The proposal has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U370	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U371	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It shall specify the criteria governing the sub-contractor's replacement. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U372	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U373	22. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It is envisaged to exclude the first paragraph of Article 11 of the draft law. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U374	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U375	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It is envisaged to exclude the second paragraph of Article 11 of the draft law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U376	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U377	24. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Editable. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U378	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U379	25. - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Zakaistov. If the person subject to the prohibition of the exercise of the right does not have a personal identification number, the date and country of birth must be indicated. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U380	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U381	26. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Provision shall be made for an extension of the time limit in the transitional provisions on the applicability of the provisions. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U382	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U383	27. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Provision shall be made for an extension of the time limit in the transitional provisions on the establishment of a register of contracts. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U384	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U385	28. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It is envisaged to exclude point 22 of the transitional provisions provided for in Article 15 of the draft law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U386	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U387	29. - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Zakaistov. It is envisaged to exclude point 23 of the transitional provisions provided for in Article 15 of the draft law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U388	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U389	30. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It is envisaged to exclude point 24 of the transitional provisions provided for in Article 15 of the draft law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U390	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U391	31. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It is foreseen that the law will enter into force on 1 January 2023. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U392	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U393	I invite you to support the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement at third, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U394	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement” in the third, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 80, it's against 1, it's not. The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, amendments have been tabled to the agenda of the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau. The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption is asking to include in the agenda of the sitting the draft law on support for Ukrainian civilians at first reading. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. Draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on Immigration’, first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U395	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Hello, colleagues! Sitting viewers and listeners! In its meeting of 15 February this year, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption discussed the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Immigration", which we are looking at today at first reading. This initiative has been created by the Ministry of the Interior, referring to the recommendations of the Diaspora Advisory Council, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Riga City Council, also involving other ministries and experts. Thank you also to colleagues in the Saeima who have put their hand in making this bill. Currently, third-country nationals whose specifics allow them to carry out their duties remotely have limited access to the right of residence in the Republic of Latvia. This draft law provides for this right to be granted. The aim of the draft law is to facilitate the entry of highly qualified persons into the Republic of Latvia. The project provides for the right for a foreigner to apply for a long-term visa for one year if he wishes to stay in the Republic of Latvia, if he has an employment relationship with an employer established outside the Republic of Latvia or if he is a self-employed person established abroad (the person is not in employment relations with the employer, but provides individual services such as legal advice, translation services, IT services, etc.), and it is possible to perform his duties remotely. The long-stay visa will allow third-country nationals to work for an employer not established in the country where the employer is based. In order to reduce the risk of possible abuse of immigration conditions, the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers under the Immigration Law will have to provide that the person must prove employment with a foreign registered employer who has taken at least six months (the salary must be at least 2.5 average wages), and the visa holders will not have the right to work, and they will not be socially insured in Latvia. It is expected that the remote working visa will facilitate not only the repatriation of Latvian citizens, workers from third countries, but at the same time will create favourable conditions for their spouses to carry out their remote working duties legally when working from Latvia. It is planned that after the expiry of the visa period, you will be able to apply for a re-entry visa for a further one year. The draft law is supported by the Commission. I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U396	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U397	Colleagues, everything changes very quickly and quickly. Two weeks ago, it was impossible to convince the Ministry of the Interior that it was a strategic mistake to make this regulation, which will apply to absolutely all the citizens of the world in order to get these long-term visas, but I am sure we will have a consensus at second reading that, if not in this law, we will leave only the citizens of the OECD countries, then... at least for nationals of two countries who will not be able to obtain long-stay visas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U398	The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U399	Hello, dear colleagues! I would like to call on everyone to support this draft law. This draft law has been carefully considered, discussed with the Ministry of the Interior, risks have been assessed. The Ministry of the Interior at the meeting of the Information Technology and Innovative Business Sub-Commission of the Commission on Sustainable Development has confirmed that risks have been weighed here. In developing this regulation, we can look at a law that is already actually working in Estonia and other countries, where it has not only helped to attract, say, well-paid people who later drive and spend their money in the country and thus raise the country's economy, but has also helped to develop the country's recognition and bring substantially more taxes to the country. We are talking about the example of Estonia. In the international press, it can also be seen that the Estonian Prime Minister has once pointed out that such a similar regulation has taken place in the Estonian Treasury, for example, around EUR 50 million. Consequently, I think that it will be only positive and economical for the Latvian state. Of course, the situation in Ukraine is a little, let us say, exacerbated our perception of these things, but it should not be a deterrent at the moment so that we block this draft law and do not allow it to continue. This is also at European level, let us say, decided and led, so not only Latvia, but other European countries will implement it in the near future. I would also like to remind you that this has been seen and many of you have had the opportunity to participate in both non-governmental organisations in various forms (and thanks to these non-governmental organisations) and, as I said, in sub-committee meetings. There was an opportunity to discuss it with the Ministry of the Interior, which indicated that the risks were balanced and that no additional risks, such as those from third country nationals, could potentially be threatened here. So, colleagues in general, I call for support and perhaps there will also be any proposals for second reading. For example, other countries include such things as the possibility of transferring their tax residence to Latvia, not working in this country themselves, but working elsewhere. So taxes would be paid directly in Latvia, but in return this person does not receive any pension or other social guarantees from the third country of the world. So that the state of Latvia would gain very much from it. I call for support. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U400	Name to Member Martin Stein.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U401	I also wanted to ask for support for this draft law. We, the Ministry of the Interior, have evaluated and evaluated current events. I wanted to convey the message that we are going to come up with a proposal that does not allow for the issuing of nomadic visas to Russian and Belarusian citizens. That's for second reading. We are now calling for support to be given to the draft law at first reading and then for a second reading in the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U402	The name to Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U403	Colleagues! I will also call for support for this draft law. However, reading the annotation of this draft law, and also listening to what the rapporteur said, it is, of course, very ridiculous to think that a foreign citizen at a distance is able to carry out legal services. How, then, will he be able to provide legal services without understanding, for example, the Latvian language or this legal system that exists here for us in Latvia? I understand IT solutions; that is understandable. Translation... It also seems a little questionable. So what language does this translation come from if, for example, a foreigner does not really understand the language? But in any case, there will probably be proposals in this bill. I hope there will be no proposals such as, say, not to re-visit one or the other country to those citizens who, for example, have already started their work here, have proved themselves, the security services have had positive information about them. So there is still debate and time for tabling proposals, but now I really call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U404	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U405	I, my fellow Members, would call on this question... Of course, an important question. I would call for a really faster adoption of this law so that it can start working. It is a system currently in place in many countries. There are a number of entrepreneurs who are now asking us to... and we are losing our competitiveness with regard to Estonia, where this is already in place. I would also urge us to adopt such a regulation more quickly. This is a specific regulation. It is a very limited number of people who will be able to apply for these visas, but it is necessary for regulation, it is demand, and it will only contribute to the economic competitiveness of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U406	I closed the debate. For the Commission, please... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U407	Thank you for the debate. The deadline for submitting proposals will be two weeks, everyone will be able to submit... and debate. But now, on behalf of the Commission, I call for the adoption of a draft law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U408	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Immigration"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 67, for - 5, for - 3. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U409	The deadline for proposals - two weeks - until 17 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U410	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 17 March this year. Dear colleagues, Members Latkovskis, Dauge, Adamovičs, Pūce, Dzintars and Jušas are asking for changes to the agenda of the sitting and to move item 38 of the agenda - the draft law on the Ukrainian civilian support law - before item 21 of the agenda - to be examined now. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. On the agenda - draft law on support for Ukrainian civilians, first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U411	Welcome again. This morning, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption has already examined the draft law “The Ukrainian Civil Support Law”. It was examined and unanimously approved by the Commission. I'll tell you a little bit about this. The draft law was designed to ensure as soon and effectively as possible support for Ukrainian citizens and members of their families who leave Ukraine or who cannot return to Ukraine due to the armed conflict caused by the Russian Federation, as well as general support for Ukrainian society. The draft law provides for the possibility of granting entitlement to employment, thereby providing for the economic needs of those persons. The draft law provides that if Ukrainian civilians do not have the right to reside in the Republic of Latvia or have the right to reside, but do not have the right to employment, and if they do not have a valid travel document, the Office of Citizenship and Migration Affairs, the State Border Guard or the diplomatic and consular missions of the Republic of Latvia abroad may issue a long-term visa with the right to employment without restrictions for up to one year without applying the requirements of the Immigration Law and without levying the State fee. The draft law also lays down certain conditions applicable to the employment of Ukrainian civilians in education and treatment. This thus ensures both the economic interests of Ukrainian civilians and reduces the shortage of workers in these sectors. At the same time, the draft law includes a horizontal legal norm providing for an exception to the use of the state language in the field of employment, i.e. the employer has the right to employ Ukrainian civilians without the knowledge of the state language as long as this does not hinder the performance of his duties. The draft law also provides for Ukrainian civilians that the state provides a basic account within the meaning of the Law on Payment Services and Electronic Money. Ukrainian civilians are granted the right to receive state-paid health care services in the same amount as persons insured under Latvian compulsory health insurance. Also, persons in addition to the groups of persons mentioned in Section 6 (2) of the Health Care Financing Law will be exempted from the co-payment of patients. Supporting specific social challenges, reducing difficulties, enhancing social adaptability... and a social mentor, a social worker service will be provided to these people by the Society Integration Fund in cooperation with other institutions. To provide support to Ukrainian civilian employment... The Employment State Agency will also provide extensive support, both by providing advice and by offering workers the opportunity to participate in events covered by European Union funds. More operational support provides for an exception to the conditions of employment of third-country nationals without the requirement to register an employer’s vacancy with the State Employment Agency. Similarly, the requirement for the employer to pay no less than the average gross wage in our country will not be covered by the legislation on the employment of foreigners and the amount of financial resources required. It will be possible to receive a grant in the amount of one minimum monthly salary per employee. There was unanimous support in the Commission for both urgency and support, and there was also a debate in which the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare mentioned that regulation would be introduced for the appointment of an extraordinary guardian, and there would be an addition from the Ministry of Education and Science and the Ministry of Finance to the regulation of donations as well as to the regulation of business support. The Legal Bureau also supported its proposals next week. So today we are calling on the Commission not to submit proposals, if possible, because a new week... We inform you that this draft law is likely to be open and we will continue the debate and introduce further proposals. At the moment, I call on the Saeima to support the urgency of this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U412	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on support for Ukrainian civilians! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U413	I ask the Saeima to support this draft law at first reading. The Commission agreed unanimously.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U414	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on support for Ukrainian civilians at first reading! Please, let's vote! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U415	In view of the Commission's aforementioned encouragement that the draft law will be open next week... The Commission decided to ask the Saeima to examine this draft law at second, final, reading without examination by the Commission, in the absence of opposition by the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U416	Are Members opposed to the final reading of the draft law without re-examination by the committee responsible? There is no objection. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on the second, final, reading of the Ukrainian civilian support law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Thank you, colleagues, for working unanimously and smoothly. There's a break coming. Before the break, there are some statements. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the 150th birthday of the long-standing Speaker of the Saeima Paul Kalniņš, and also of the President of Latvia in exile. I invite you to the opening of the exhibition at 12.35 in the Great Lobby. So, another word for a statement to Member Ivan Ribakov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U417	Dear Saeima! Members working in the group for cooperation with the Russian Parliament will be asked to meet here at 12:45, next to the Yellow Hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U418	Thank you. Colleagues, attention to the registration of Members. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name Inese Voika to read the registration results as soon as they are ready.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U419	Colleagues! Not registered: Aigars Bikše, Aldis Blumbergs, Sergejs Dolgopolovs, Ilze Indriksone, Janīna Jalinska, Armands Krauze, Inese Lībiņa–Egnere, Maris Mičerevskis, Romanas Naudiņš, Igors Pimenovs, Karina Sprūde, Vita Anda Steel and Jānis Tutins... who's here.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U420	Thank you. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U421	Dear colleagues, I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber. We're going to keep the Saeima working after the break. Dear colleagues, Changes to the agenda for the sitting of the Saeima have been tabled. We ask you to get to know them and we will soon decide on the changes. We are currently continuing with the examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Civil Service Law”, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission, Member Uldis Budriķis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U422	Welcome again, honourable colleagues! Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government has examined draft law No. 1320/Lp13 and directs the Saeima for first reading. The draft law provides that the head of the institution, the director of the State Chancellery and the head of the Transparency Coordination Centre will be able to hold no more than two consecutive terms of office. The draft law provides that in cases where doubts arise about the legality of the task, the head of the institution, the director of the State Chancellery, the head of the Reconnaissance Coordination Centre shall have the right to appeal to the Ombudsman with a request to assess compliance of the order or task with the principle of good administration. The draft law sets time limits for termination of civil service relations. The draft law also provides that, when moving an official to another post with a lower monthly salary than the previous salary, the previous monthly salary remains both... It's about the bill. The Commission held a very wide-ranging debate on both the norms contained in the draft law and the institution of the civil service as such. The Commission agreed to continue the debate and generally supported the draft legislation at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U423	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U424	At the end of February, the State Audit Office came with an opinion on the reform of the state administration, its efficiency and the results achieved. This bill... In essence, this should be an offer to address ineffective, stagnating and time-independent public administration. Unfortunately, this draft law only provides additional social guarantees and security instruments for officials who may not, in some way, satisfy future political leadership. I believe that this draft law does not, in fact, solve major problems affecting the efficiency of public administration. It will not increase efficiency, it will not ensure the modernity of the institutions and the civil service, and it is also totally inadequate for citizens to obtain high-quality, timely and modern solutions from public administration. The reform in the state administration has failed, and it was approved by the State Audit Office. I will therefore not support this draft law. And with regard to the way forward, I think it's fictitious... a proposal for a reform of public administration, which, in fact, does not address the problems but extends them.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U425	I closed the debate. For the Commission, please... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U426	For the Commission... Yes, this was one of the most discussed topics, and the Commission chose to continue to debate these matters at second reading of the draft law. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U427	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Civil Service” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 59, for - 14, for - 1. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U428	3 April this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U429	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 3 April this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Aldis Adamovičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U430	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! The Commission of State Administration and Local Government has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”, which we are currently looking at at at first reading. This draft law is directed at the same time or at the same time as the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Civil Service”. This draft law provides for the establishment of a dismissal allowance for an official appointed or approved by the Cabinet of Ministers or appointed by the Minister, leaving him a post due to the absence of cooperation with a member of the Cabinet, provided that he has not been transferred to another post. The Commission supported the draft law at first reading. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U431	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U432	All Members have received a letter from the Board of Fiscal Discipline containing information on risks... and the possibility of thinking about possible priorities. This draft law provides for "golden signatures" of three months' salaries for officials who may be unable to cooperate and cooperate with the new political leadership. I will remind you of the offer made by the Fiscal Discipline Council in its letter. In particular, one of the initiatives that should be supported could be a critical assessment of the priorities of national authorities so that economy-based funds can be directed towards defence, energy independence and social programmes. The Board of Fiscal Discipline is ready to reduce its budget by maintaining all the functions and tasks assigned to it. Well, colleagues, support now, please, officials... grants - additional funding... on the condition that they do not cooperate with new political leadership.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U433	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U434	Colleagues, this draft law is also intended for debate at second reading. On behalf of the Commission, I am now calling for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U435	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 57, no, 15, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U436	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 3 April this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U437	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 3 April this year. Draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development’, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Janina Kursīte.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U438	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Hello, colleagues! See the draft law “Amendments to the law on agriculture and rural development” at second reading. Eight proposals were received to the second reading. 1. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Kronberg. The 15th and 16th subparagraphs shall be added. The fifteenth part regulates that the support of the European Union in agriculture and rural development is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers, and the sixteenth part provides that the procedure for reducing this support is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U439	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U440	2. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Kronberg. This is about Article 6 of the draft law. In particular, it provides for the wording of Article 10, 1.2 and, second paragraph, to be reworded... with various additions concerning the performance of the national plant protection service. The proposal has been partly supported and included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U441	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U442	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It also regulates various parts of the paragraphs and articles. Also partly supported and included in proposal 5.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U443	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U444	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It also expresses Article 10, second paragraph, point 4... Partly included in proposal 5.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U445	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U446	5. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It shall consist of all these proposals of the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U447	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U448	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The transitional provisions shall be supplemented. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U449	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U450	7. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Kronberg. Partly supported and included in proposal 6.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U451	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U452	And 8. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Kronberg. Note point 34 of the transitional provisions. The proposal has been partly supported and included 6. - a proposal from the Legal Office.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U453	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U454	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U455	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law amending the law on agriculture and rural development! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U456	10 March of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U457	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 10 March this year. Dear colleagues, As I said, amendments have been tabled to the agenda of the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau. Members Viktors Valainis, Edgars Tavars, Uldis Augulis, Jānis Vucāns, Jānis Dūklavs, Māris Kučinskis and others are asking to include in the agenda the referral of the draft law “Amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Support Law” to the commissions. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Andrejs Judins, Juris Rancāns, Juris Pūce, Raimonds Bergmanis, Mārtiņš Šteins, Ainars Latkovskis and Raivis Dzintars are asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendment to the Law of the Land Guard of the Republic of Latvia”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Committee on Social and Labour Affairs is asking to include the referral of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Medical Treatment” to the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. And, honourable colleagues, the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs has asked for the draft law on the amendment to be put on the agenda after item 23. Consequently, the Bureau reports on draft laws submitted. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes the draft law “Amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Support Law” submitted by Member Viktors Valaiņa, Edgars Tatars, Ulda Augulis, Jānis Vucanas, Jānis Dūklavs, Māra Kučinskas and other Members (No. 1371/Lp13) transferred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law of the Republic of Latvia on Land Guards” submitted by Andrejs Judina, Jurs Rancāns, Jurs Pūce, Raimonds Bergmanis, Mārtiņš Steinas, Ainaras Latkovskas and Raivjs Dzintars be referred to the Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Prevention Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Andrey Judin, a Member, has signed up to speak about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U458	Dear colleagues, According to the Law of the Land Guard of the Republic of Latvia on the Landguard cannot become a person who has been punished, who has a conviction... including - if it has been removed or deleted. But if a person has committed a criminal offence or a less serious crime, there is a special commission that can assess the circumstances of a particular case and make a decision and allow a person to serve in the Earthguard. In the event of a serious or particularly serious crime, there is no possibility; no committee evaluates and does not matter when a criminal offence was committed and what constitutes a criminal offence and what life lives of a human being. That is not right. Last year, the Constitutional Court pointed out that it was not right in relation to the field of education – it was imperative to automatically restrict a person's right to work as a teacher. We are also talking about other issues, about other areas. It is important that each case be individually assessed. In view of the situation, what is happening is exactly the facts and circumstances... taking into account what is happening in Ukraine and taking into account the desire of people to serve in the Earthguard, and taking into account the specific letters that we received and in which people tell us about their circumstances and situations, it would be right to establish that there is a common order; that in all cases a person can apply and ask for an assessment of his situation. This will in no way mean a green light - that a person will be guaranteed the opportunity to become an earthly guard - but this will provide an opportunity to evaluate and make an individual decision. Please support the referral of the draft law to the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U459	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law on Social and Labour Affairs “Amendment to the Law on Medical Treatment” submitted by the Social and Labour Affairs Commission be referred to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. And the Committee on Social and Labour Affairs has asked for an amendment to the agenda of the sitting to include a first-reading amendment to the draft law on treatment. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. Consequently, we can examine the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Treatment”. So on the agenda - the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Treatment”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Andris Skride.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U460	Hello, colleagues! Mrs. Moore! So - the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Medical Treatment”. This will be on Article 34. Now it's the case that the National Blooddonor Centre... The delegation of the Cabinet does not provide if there is a need to send blood or blood components abroad or if necessary to import blood from abroad into Latvia... Due to this exceptional situation, we, the Saeima, delegate the Cabinet of Ministers to allow to export blood components from Latvia and blood... any country, if necessary, if requested... And this would also be coordinated by the National Blooddonor Centre. The Commission unanimously requests the urgency of this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U461	Members have not applied to speak about urgency. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Medical Treatment” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U462	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U463	Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Medicine” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The draft law at first reading has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U464	And, colleagues, if no one objected (the Saeima's Legal Office did not exist, and the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Health did not!) I ask you, on behalf of the Commission, to support this draft law at second, final, reading without re-examination by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U465	Are Members opposed to the final reading of the draft law without re-examination by the committee responsible? There is no objection. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Treatment” in the second, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Deposit Guarantee Act”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U466	Dear Speaker of the Saeima and dear colleagues! The Budget and Finance (tax) Commission examined the draft law “Amendments to the Deposit Guarantee Act” before the second reading. A total of 24 proposals have been received. In most cases, they are technical or editorial improvements - better understanding, as well as consistency with the norms already adopted in the meantime. Most of the proposals submitted to the Commission have been supported or partially supported. Let's start looking at it. 1. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Article 1 of the draft law is to be excluded because in the meantime... On 23 September 2021, the same law was amended. The Commission was supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U467	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U468	2. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. A new article will be added to the draft law. This proposal provides for arrangements for the remote submission of claims in branches of credit institutions. The Commission was supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U469	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U470	3. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. The draft law shall be supplemented by a new article based on an information exchange procedure between the Ministry of Finance and the Financial and Capital Market Commission on the unavailability of finance in the event of deposits. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U471	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U472	4. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. It is envisaged that the amendment contained in Article 2 of the draft law concerning the exclusion of the word ‘its’ from the second paragraph of Article 3 of the law will be excluded. Technical in principle. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U473	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U474	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's a technical clarification... on stress tests. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U475	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U476	6. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Article 4 of the draft law is to be excluded. The Commission was supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U477	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U478	7. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. It is envisaged to exclude Article 5 of the draft law on the rewording of Articles 15 and 16 of the law. In the meantime, amendments have been made to this law, so that it is no longer necessary. The Commission supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U479	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U480	8 / 8 - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Addition with... the wording of Article 15 in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Law on Administrative Liability. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U481	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U482	9. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. The draft law shall be supplemented by a new article laying down the procedure for the publication of sanctions and administrative measures. The Commission was supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U483	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U484	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. The Commission was supported by a corresponding change in the numbering of the following articles.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U485	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U486	11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is technical to replace in Article 17 the number and the word ‘Part 1.1’ with the words ‘third paragraph’ and (11) the number (3. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U487	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U488	12. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Partially supported and included 13. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U489	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U490	13. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Detailed arrangements shall be laid down for a loan to the Deposit Guarantee Fund. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U491	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U492	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Partially supported and included 15. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U493	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U494	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. The time limits for the lack of access to deposits are shortened... reporting to the Ministry of Finance. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U495	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U496	16. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Complements the amendment contained in Article 13 of the draft law... Article 27, first paragraph, point 1, with the words “as well as the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism and is supplemented in principle. The Commission is therefore supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U497	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U498	17. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Partially supported and included 18. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U499	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U500	18. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Version of Article 14 of the Draft Law. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U501	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U502	19. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Technically specified concerning the conclusion of cooperation agreements with other institutions. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U503	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U504	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. It shall be editorial and shall replace the words ‘on behalf of the Commission’ in paragraph 2, with the words ‘representing the Commission and’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U505	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U506	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Establishment of arrangements for foreign deposit investors for deposit protection. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U507	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U508	22. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. The transitional provisions providing for the exclusion of Article 19 of the draft law. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U509	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U510	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. In view of the exclusion of Article 19 of the transitional provisions, it is necessary to clarify the entry into force of the provisions. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U511	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U512	24. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Provides for the exclusion of informative references to European Union directives. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U513	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U514	On behalf of the Commission, I also call on you to support this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U515	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Deposit Guarantee” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U516	8 March of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U517	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 8 March this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Religious Organisations”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Vladimir Nikonov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U518	Dear colleagues, See the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Religious Organisations” at second reading. A total of 26 proposals have been tabled for the second reading of the draft law. 1. - a proposal from the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. The law shall be supplemented by the new term ‘service staff of religious organisations’. They are natural persons who are not spiritual staff or employees of religious organizations and who, on good faith and on a call-free basis, participate in the pursuit of the aims of religious organisations. In the Commission, the proposal was drawn up at the initiative of religious organisations and the inclusion of such a term in the law is necessary to help address the tax challenges faced by religious organisations. In addition to this proposal, we can inform that the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs has prepared and submitted a proposal to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax”, which provides for the addition of a new case of non-inclusion of annual taxable income and non-taxation of compensation of personal expenses related to service to a religious organization, which is covered by a religious organisation for its servants under a written agreement. The Commission's proposal is, of course, supported. I also call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U519	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U520	2. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Partly supported and included in the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U521	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U522	3. - a proposal from the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. The law is supplemented by a new legal form of a religious organization, the chapter, and the fifth paragraph of Article 3 clarifies what is a chapter of a religious organization. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U523	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U524	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Asks that Article 1 of the draft law supported at first reading be excluded, which provides for the inclusion in the law of the list of churches of traditional religious unions. The proposal was supported by the Commission. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U525	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U526	Dear President, Honourable Members! This proposal was tabled for one reason only: so that the fifth proposal, which I have tabled, could not be examined. This proposal was submitted by the Minister of Justice, Bordāns, but not at all, it is being transformed into a proposal by the Legal Commission. The essence of the proposal is to prevent Latvia from registering or restoring the activities of the Latvian Orthodox Church in the Patriarchy of Constantinople. The law provides - if there are more than 10 churches, then you can register the church. Unfortunately, for 30 years, the Moscow Patriarchy's Orthodox Church has been treasured in Latvia, contrary to Estonia, where there are two churches, contrary to Ukraine, where they thought that they should rebuild the Kiev Patriarchy's Church, which would go into the Patriarchy of Constantinople. So in Latvia this process is being artificially stopped thanks to the influence of former State Security Committee agents in various fields. What then is the Orthodox Church of Latvia as such... the true Orthodox, not the insanity? On 11 February 1936, the Sinode of the Orthodox Church of Latvia received (at its request) a reply that the Patriarch Benjamin I of Constantinople had signed Thomas and granted to the Orthodox Church of Latvia autonomy under the canonical authority of the World Patriarchal throne. On 10 March 1936, Augustin Pētersons was elected as the metropolitan of Riga and the whole of Latvia with 188 votes from 330 delegates of the Orthodox Autonomous Church of Latvia. The main task of the new metropolis was to serve the State of Latvia, the spiritual development of the Latvian people, the introduction of the Latvian language into the services of the church, asking the clergy to know the Latvian language, to organise educational establishments, to publish the literature of the services, and to turn a church dependent on the Russian Empire into one of the churches of Latvia, the goal of which was the spiritual development of the Latvian state and the Latvian nation. International cooperation with Estonian and Finnish autonomous Orthodox churches was strengthened at the Council of these churches in Sortova, Finland, on August 22, 1937. At the beginning of the Soviet occupation, the National Commissioner for State Security of the USSR, Merkulov, the Head of the NKVD, wrote an application to the Secretary General of the Central Committee of the Union Communist Party, Stalin. This document has been received by historian Heinrich Strod. I quote: “By means of the USSR VDTK Agency, take the decision of the Kaunas Patriarchy on the submission of the Orthodox churches of Latvia, Estonia and Lithuania to the Kaunas Patriarchy, using the local church for this purpose”... It's like... “ the usual petition of clergy and believers. To manage the Baltic eparchia of Moscow's Patriarchy as an exarhua or authorised archbishop, Voskresenski Dmitry Nikolayevich (the State Security Commissioner of the USSR) using the relevant requests from local clergy held by the Moscow Patriarchy.” Further, on February 27, 1941, the patriarchate of Moscow took a decision to liquidate the Latvian Autonomous Orthodox Church, confiscate the property, release the Latvian Orthodox Autonomous Church Sinodi and withdraw the metropolitan name of Augustine. In this way, the issue of the liquidation of the Latvian Orthodox Autonomous Church is settled. There were no patriarchs in Russia. In 1943 Josif Visarionovich Stalin founded the Orthodox Church of Russia (not Rossijskaya, but Ruscaya), the branch of which is now also the Orthodox Church of Latvia. I think that the Latvian Orthodox Autonomous Church in the Patriarchate of Constantinople has nothing to do with Stalin's 1943 church. In order not to register this church, this article 1.1 is removed outside... first subparagraph... which lists... Please extend by two more minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U527	There is an opportunity to bring together both times of debate. So the times of the debate are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U528	... As if we take out a list of all traditional churches, say the Catholic Church, Lutheran Church, Methodists, all legally authorized registered religious organizations. Next - 5. - the proposal is just... I am adding to this list that we have two churches, so one Orthodox... is the patriarchate of Moscow, the other is the Constantinoples, whose Ministry of Justice should register. As a result, the situation has arisen that, if we accept this, then we are going to go further, we are not doing what Ukraine is doing, we are not doing, as Estonia is doing, we are continuing to be subject to the patriarchy of Moscow, so it is a patriarchy whose priests are deserted with holy water for missiles that fly to Ukraine. So that I call for the vote against this proposal and support my next proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U529	I closed the debate. For the Commission, please... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U530	The proposal is supported by the Commission. I call for support for proposal 4.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U531	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 66, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U532	5. - Mr Kirštein's proposal. There is no support in the Commission. Since we supported proposal 4, there is no vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U533	The proposal is not put to the vote, but the Member Kirštein has taken part in the debate. Let us start a debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U534	Dear President, Honourable Members! So what happened next? After the dissolution of the Latvian Orthodox Autonomous Church from Latvia, Latvian clergymen, including two chief priests, 12 priests, five diacons, and 11 psalmists, refused to cooperate with the Czech Republic. In their place, the highest positions, according to historian Strauss, were occupied by the loyal... Members, most of whom were KGB agents (this is what we will talk about in proposal 9). The Orthodox Church of Latvia, as it now says, has been ironically evaluated by the Patriarch of the World, notably the Patriarch Varfolomei. The Finnish Orthodox Church in the Patriarchy of Constantinople had submitted a request regarding the current international situation for the Latvian Orthodox Church. So this response, which was announced by the World Patriarch Varfolomei, is the following: “Love Latvian law prefers the holy Russian Orthodox Church, regardless of the fact that the canonical jurisdiction over the Orthodox Diaspora belongs only to the World Patriarch.” Since no Soviet occupation, no changes, no orders of Stalin can change the fact that there is in fact a Latvian Orthodox Church in the Patriarchy of Constantinople, for which the Register of Enterprises has already registered 13 churches. The Ministry of Justice tries not to register the church itself as such. It's just a matter of time. It is a pity that we have not supported this idea. Thank you for your attention, but for the third reading, I think both our Foreign Minister and the President of Latvia have to do the same as the President of Ukraine, Poroshenko, because this is also a diplomatic issue. Until this is resolved, these congregations are part of the Patriarchy of Constantinople. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U535	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added on behalf of the Commission? The proposal cannot be put to the vote, as the rapporteur has already said.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U536	Nothing can be added on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U537	Okay, we're going on with proposal 6.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U538	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Proposal for a legal instrument I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U539	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U540	7. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Associated with the implementation of the law on the legal form of the new religious organisation. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U541	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U542	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Proposal for a legal instrument I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U543	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U544	9. - Mr Kirštein's proposal. There is no support in the Commission. I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U545	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U546	Dear President, Honourable Members! This proposal provides that, due to the fact that the Ministry of Justice is required to register officials of religious organisations, leaders, my proposal is very simple: religious organisations receive a certificate, as has been accepted, that their head has not been an employee of the CPC Committee on State Security, the USSR Committee on State Security, the Federal Security Service for Russia, and so on. You know - all the same standard organisations: the Interfront, the Committee on the Rescue of the Vislavish Society, the Veteran Society and so on. Why is this necessary? At the time the boy took place in Moscow, the Russian Supreme Council was after the boy, and it set up an investigative commission. And this investigation commission... The Commission's materials were then sent in part to the previous Supreme Council, and maybe something has also been sent to the Saeima, we have to have an archive. Thus, historian Strods has also published this document. And this committee of inquiry has found that, unfortunately, the Orthodox Church of Moscow Patriarchate, the so-called Russian Orthodox Church, has worked regularly with the State Security Committee. The KGB has sent its agents and is sent by church's external communication line to foreign agents to monitor international organizations - the World Church Council, the Christian Peace Conference, the Conference of European Churches - and relations with the Vatican. The Commission of Investigation, the Russian Commission, recommended that future church statutes be included... cooperation between the responsible church staff and public authorities on illegal and secret activities. This was not done in Moscow or Latvia, as we can see from published cards of KGB agents. Moscow Patriarch Kiril is a former KGB agent with a cover name Mihailov. The Riga and Latvian metropolis is a KGB agent with a covering name in Chitatel or in Latvian - a reader. Aleksandrs Ischenko, the vice-director of religious affairs, was appointed and received from the metropolitan authority for the real estate trade of the Orthodox Church of Latvia. The mandate is unlimited, and if we remember the recent fires, where a great house on Kalnciema street burned, where elements of Art Nouveau architecture... So it was sold by Mr. Ischenko, who was linked to the KGB, to his people who burned their house because they wanted to burn it to build something else. Well, unfortunately... Nothing happened to them, and the house is preserved, but it shows what activity and the depth of infiltrating the management of some religious organizations. The Secretary of the Synod Commission of the Old Faith and Faith Community is Ivan Miroliubov, a KGB agent with the surname Anatoly. Article 8 provides for the registration of religious organizations and their institutions. Do we really, colleagues, at the time of this same war with Ukraine, the Russian invasion in Ukraine, we are unable to sort things out at least to the extent that those people who do both ideological work and the training of young people... that we cannot stop them in some way from doing this as former KGB and intelligence officers. And the last is that you should be ashamed of who does not support this. The last statement, the Moscow Patriarch Kiril's statement - that those who oppose Ukraine are the silly zla, translated - the forces of evil. We must not allow the dark enemy's forces to laugh at us; they must be beaten. Well, let's go! I invite you to support my proposal and clean up these KGB staff... Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U547	I closed the debate. For the Commission, please... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U548	On behalf of the Commission, I call for the proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U549	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - Mr Kirstein's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 5, against -59, refraining from -6. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U550	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. The wording of Article 9 shall be specified and the information requested by the Register of Enterprises should be specified in cases where the person who should be entered in the register of religious organisations and their institutions does not have a personal identification number, i.e. in such cases the date of birth, the number of the identity document and the date of issue, the country and the authority issuing the document should be specified. Supported by the Commission. I also call on the Saeima to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U551	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U552	11. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U553	No, no, yet 11. ( Independence: “11! ”) ) 11, 11
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U554	11. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Associated with the implementation of the law on the legal form of a new religious organisation. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U555	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U556	12. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It is envisaged that a certificate of registration of a religious organisation or its institution should be refused because practice shows that the certificate attests to the fact that a religious organisation is registered but does not confirm, at a later stage, whether such an entity still exists or has not ceased its activities. So, the religious... the issue of a certificate in comparison with a record in a register of religious organisations and their institutions is of no legal importance. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U557	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U558	13. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It concerns both the introduction of a chapter in the legal form of a new religious organisation and the clarification of the information to be provided in the statutes of a religious organisation. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U559	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U560	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Associated with the implementation of the law on the legal form of a new religious organisation. Supported by the Commission. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U561	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U562	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. Related to 1. - the Commission's proposal for staff members of religious organizations and provides that service relations with staff members shall be established on the basis of an agreement to be drawn up in writing in cases where staff members are reimbursed for their service-related expenses. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U563	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U564	16. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It has been partly supported and included in 17. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U565	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U566	17. - Commission proposal. According to Article 15 of the Law on Religious Organisations, since the Law on Entrepreneurship has become obsolete and instead economic activities are governed by the Commercial Law. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U567	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U568	18. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It has been partly supported and included 19. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U569	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U570	19. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is envisaged to exclude Article 9 of the draft law at the same time as the first-reading amendment to the fifth paragraph of Article 5 of the law and not to address the question of the recovery of the property of religious organisations in that law. Supported by the Commission. I also call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U571	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U572	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It provides for clarification of Article 17 of the Law, both by adding a new legal form “section” of a religious organisation, and by clarifying the norms in the event of the dissolution, reorganisation or termination of a religious organisation. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U573	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U574	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Andrey Judin's proposal. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U575	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U576	22. - Andrey Judin's proposal. The time limit for the management of a religious organisation to indicate representation rights in the Register of Enterprises shall be extended. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U577	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U578	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Clarifying the first reading of Article 18.1 which entitles the Register of Enterprises to cease its activities as a religious organisation. Article 18.1 of the Law is supplemented by a fourth paragraph, which provides for a procedure for the liquidation of religious organizations. The proposal has been partially supported and included in the Commission24. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U579	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U580	24. - a proposal from the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. Specifies 23. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Mr. Janis Bordans, the time limit for the administration of a religious organization to indicate the right of representation to the Register of Enterprises. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U581	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U582	25. - Mr Kirštein's proposal. There is no support in the Commission. I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U583	There is no vote, but the debate is possible. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U584	Dear President, Honourable Members! We have already talked about this proposal in the previous 12th Saeima. So it took eight years to do nothing. It is logical that January 2021 has passed, but there will be proposals for the next reading. I think the commission will remember that... could be recorded, say, if not in 2023, in 2024, when this church had to re-register. Why? The Estonian Parliament did not allow the branch office of the Russian Orthodox Church in Estonia to be called the Estonian Orthodox Church, and the official name had to be changed to the Moscow Patriarchy Orthodox Church. So I have no doubt that the next Saeima will do it and that it will be... So one will be the Orthodox Church of Moscow, which is officially called the Patriarchy’s website. If you enter the patriarchia. The Orthodox Church of Latvia is not autonomous, as we are told, because this website says that there are only three autonomous churches in Moscow – Japan, Finland and China. Then let's go down to this website and watch Russian Orthodox churches. Oh, my God! - Under this section of the Orthodox Church we find Latvian church samoupravniniaijem - with self-governance. It's about that, let's say, Livani municipality would be in some way autonomous from Latvia. So I think this is just a matter of time, but in any case, the Commission could already show that it does not cooperate with the National Security Committee... No dosage adjustment is necessary in patients with renal Of course, I have doubts about the Minister of Justice, but I hope that we will have a new Minister of Justice soon and will be registered exactly as it should be: either under the name of the Orthodox Church of Moscow Patriarchy, or under the name of the Russian Orthodox Church in Latvia. And the other would be the Orthodox Autonomous Church of Latvia, which is, as I said, in the Patriarchy of Constantinople from 1936 and forever, and nothing can change - no Communist invasion, neither Merculova nor any other orders, nor Stalin decisions, and in vain we imitate. Thank you for your attention. I call for proposals to be put forward for the third reading and for this matter to be organised once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U585	I closed the debate. For the Commission, please... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U586	On behalf of the Commission, I call for proposal 25 not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U587	Neither is there a vote. Next, 26.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U588	26. - a proposal from the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. Provision shall be made for a deadline for the application of the amendments to Article 9.1 of this Law concerning the addition to the register of religious organisations and their institutions. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U589	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U590	Consequently, all the proposals submitted to the panel have been examined. I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U591	Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Religious Organisations”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U592	The deadline for the submission of proposals for the third reading is 10 days to 13 March.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U593	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 13 March this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection and Management of the Marine Environment”, second reading. Member Viesturs Liepkalns on behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U594	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! Dear President of the Saeima. The Second Reading Commission of Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection and Management of the Marine Environment” (No. 1218/Lp13). In total, 11 proposals were received by the Commission. Let's start looking at them. 1. - the proposal from the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Artis Tomas Plšs. It is a editorial proposal that clarifies the definition of the term "highest sea wave limit". Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U595	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U596	2. - the proposal from the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Artis Tomas Plšs. This is also a editorial proposal clarifying the definition of the term "buffered band". Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U597	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U598	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is a technical proposal to replace the word “Authorisation” in the introductory part with the words “Authorisation of the Cabinet of Ministers”. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U599	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U600	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This proposal is intended to provide a clear framework for the implementation of the various complex solutions at sea. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U601	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U602	5. - the proposal from the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Artis Tomas Plšs. To ensure legal clarity, the draft law... Part A is specified in accordance with the construction regulatory framework, by determining the type of civil engineering works to be authorised by the local government for the purpose of construction at sea. This makes a clearer distinction between the Cabinet of Ministers and the local government on the issue of permits for maritime activities. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U603	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U604	6. - the proposal from the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Artis Tomas Plšs. Technical specification of the numbering of the section of the law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U605	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U606	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This is an explanatory proposal, which provides that prior to issuing the authorisation referred to in Article 19.2.1, the relevant municipality shall request an opinion from the Latvian Maritime Administration as well as opinions of the institutions specified in other regulatory enactments. This proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U607	Members supported it.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U608	8 / 8 - the proposal from the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Artis Tomas Plšs. The Construction Law provides that the functions of the construction board in the sea shall always be performed by the State Construction Control Bureau. The proposal provides for - in certain cases, where a building board of a municipality can better monitor the progress of the construction process, then such authorisation may be provided with the order of the Cabinet of Ministers. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U609	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U610	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Provision shall be made for the delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers of the procedure for the issue, suspension or withdrawal of a permit or a licence for the use of the area at sea in the cases referred to in Article 19.2.1. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U611	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U612	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. A technical clarification which adds that where a municipality issues a permit, the sea users must also pay an annual fee. This proposal is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U613	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U614	And 11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This is a transitional provision. The period by which the provisions referred to in the second paragraph of Article 3.1 are to be issued shall be specified. This is done because the binding draft law ‘Amendments to the Land Management Law’ has already been adopted. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U615	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U616	Ladies and gentlemen, we have examined all 11 proposals put forward by the Commission. Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U617	Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection and Management of the Marine Environment”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U618	The deadline for submitting proposals is 10 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U619	10, huh?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U620	10.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U621	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 10 March this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Protected Service Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U622	We examine draft law prepared and submitted by the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs “Amendments to the Law on Protected Service” (No. 1370 Lp13) at first reading. A little technical about the bill itself. Consequently, the draft law was designed to strengthen the protection of a protected service provider by providing for administrative liability for the installation, installation, installation or use of illegal systems for private purposes, by making it clear that the unlawful use of such systems and the conduct of other activities constitute an administrative offence for which a person can be held liable. The draft law has been prepared in consultation with the National Electronic Media Council, the State Police, the State Security Service, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Justice. The draft law will apply to any natural or legal person as well as to protected service providers. The regulatory framework contained in the draft law is mainly aimed at ensuring the security of the national digital space, taking into account the current situation when the information war has begun. The practice shows that through illegal systems people still have access to audiovisual services that contain disinformation, spread the propaganda of the Kremlin, and the distribution of which has already been prohibited in Latvia by the National Electronic Media Council. With these amendments, we will make it clear that the use of such technical solutions can be brought to justice. The draft law was examined by the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs on 2 March this year and Members supported its direction to the Saeima in two readings. I therefore call on the draft law “Amendments to the Protected Service Law” (No. 1370 Lp13) to determine the urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U623	Thank you. Members have not applied to speak about urgency. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Protected Services” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 65, it's against - 15, it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U624	Thank you, Members. I call for the draft law to be supported at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U625	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Protected Services” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 65, it's against - 14, it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for proposals and the time to review the draft law at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U626	Yes, deadline for proposals... So the deadline is tomorrow, March 4, by 17.00 and the examination of the bill - the Saeima at its meeting on March 10, a week later.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U627	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the proposals - 4 March this year to 5 p.m. - consideration at the Saeima sitting - 10 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U628	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U629	Then on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Zenta Tretjaka to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption. Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Zenta Tretyakas to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 79, for - no, for - 1. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member, Zenta Tretjaka, to the Committee on Petitions. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Ms Zenta Tretjaka, Member of the Saeima, to the Commission of Petitions! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 32, for - 21, for - 25. No decision has been taken. Next on the agenda is the examination of the own-initiative proposals. Draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application of 11 849 Latvian citizens “On tax reductions for electricity and gas for all citizens”. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U630	Thank you, Presidium. Dear Members, On 3 February, the Saeima received a collective application from 11 849 Latvian citizens entitled “On tax reductions for electricity and gas for all citizens”. On 23 February this year, the Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Applications listened to the author of the initiative, who expressed the view that electricity prices will remain at the same level in the future as they are today, so that the Saeima should reduce the VAT rate applicable to the electricity price. A representative of the Ministry of Economics indicated that the Ministry of Economics did not oppose the reduction of the VAT rate on electricity, and informed about the types of support measures already introduced by the Ministry for citizens. The expert of the Ministry of Finance, as well as the invited expert in the field of energy, pointed out that the possibilities of the state budget should be taken into account and that it would be necessary to support those citizens who really need it, as well as the manufacturing companies. The Commission decided, after hearing the invited parties, to refer this Latvian citizens' initiative to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission for further evaluation. The Commission prepared a draft decision of the Saeima “On the way forward of a collective application of 11 849 Latvian citizens on tax reductions for electricity and gas for all citizens”. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U631	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the way forward of the 11 849 collective application “On tax reductions for electricity and gas for all citizens”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Draft decision “On further progress of 11 491 collective application of Latvian citizens “On data-based vaccination certificate policy”. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U632	Dear Members, On 3 February of this year, the Saeima received 11 491 collective application “On data based vaccination certificate policy”. On 23 February this year, the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications heard the author of the initiative, who considered that it was not in favour of vaccination against Covid-19 and that the system for the use of vaccination certificates should be abolished. In her view, the analysis of the effectiveness of the vaccination should take into account data reflecting the excess mortality, i.e. the difference between the dead and the newborns in the year before the previous year, and should demonstrate that vaccination does not reduce the risk of transmission. The Ministry of Health and representatives of the Disease Prevention and Control Centre informed about the data demonstrating the effectiveness of vaccination both in the field of reduction of infection risk and in the field of hospitalisation and protection from possible death due to the disease. The Ministry of Health informed about the planned measures, which currently intend to phase out the use of vaccination certificates in Latvia if the epidemiological situation continues to improve. The Commission, having heard the invited persons, decided to hand over this initiative of Latvian citizens to the Cabinet for further assessment. The Commission prepared a draft decision of the Saeima “On the way forward for a collective application of 11 491 Latvian citizens “On a date-based vaccination certificate””. Please support the prepared draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U633	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name of Member Ramona Petraviča.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U634	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, For four weeks in a row, I have submitted draft decisions with the task of immediate cancellation of certificates by the Cabinet of Ministers, however, they were not supported or even reviewed at the meeting. This time it is presented by the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications at the request of more than 10 000 people. The government could not give up arrogance and force majeure to demonstrate its power. Today, this proposal is being examined at the sitting because it was tabled by the Commission and not by the opposition Member, because the proposals of the opposition Members cannot be supported. But I didn't ask for myself. I gave it to put an end to the segregation, division and hatred of people. The persistent failure of the government to resolve entrepreneurs and unvaccinated entrepreneurs puts them in an absurd situation in which they need to adapt to irrational and discriminatory restrictions. In all previous speeches, I have already illustrated the fundamental problems of the Government's plan to combat the Covid-19 pandemic, but they have not convinced colleagues. In addition to all the arguments I have already made, first of all, Slovenia abolished most of the Covid-19 restrictions, including the use of certificates, on 21 February. As of 1 April, the United Kingdom will remove absolutely all restrictions, including those affected by Covid-19, due to the fact that the disease is in most cases mild and vaccination against infection is not appropriate. Similar decisions have been taken in Denmark, Norway, Lithuania and as of 1 March in Austria. Secondly. The unvaccinated are also currently banned from being employed in a whole range of occupations, such as medicine, educational institutions, social care and wherever services are provided in the so-called safe - green - regime. And it still prevents thousands of people from returning to work. At the moment, we are in a situation even different from that of a week ago. The economic sanctions imposed against Russia and Belarus will undoubtedly affect the Latvian economy. Entrepreneurs who have been severely affected by the Communal pandemic due to the failure of the government will be hit next. The stream of refugees is approaching Latvia. People are ready to help, give home, food, but let our people work. How can an undernourished person help the other person, the one who is in distress and distress? Is there really no evidence of what is happening on earth from the heights of government? Finally, let me refer to the government's planned exit... policy in the context of the existing geopolitical situation. We must be prepared to receive refugees from Ukraine and to provide them with all the priority needs, including, as far as possible, jobs. The vaccination coverage in Ukraine is around 34 percent, so most of the people arriving are expected to be without vaccination certificates. If the government tries to force these people to vaccinate or deny them because of their state of health... to be employed, statements on the provision of all forms of assistance will be a lie and discrimination, and not only against its own citizens but also against nationals of another country. In addition to this, Latvia has still not coordinated its Covid-19 policy with neighbouring countries, it makes unvaccinated lives more difficult and surrounds them. It is naive that decisions by other countries to withdraw certificates are not scientifically justified. Let me give you two reasons why... used also in other countries. Firstly, the limitations on the rights created by the certificates no longer outweigh the benefits for public security. The most common variant of Covid-19 omicrons is easy to transfer, less dangerous to health. In addition, vaccination against the disease does not prevent it. The presence of other reliefs for vaccinees also causes a sense of safety not to follow the established epidemiological safety measures. This represents the same level of risk as unvaccinated vaccinees. Therefore, leaving restrictions on only one group is discriminatory and creates hatred. It is also a clear message to those people that we do not need them. Moreover, restrictions do not outweigh the negative economic impact. I have already mentioned that the Latvian economy loses five to six million euros each week due to certificate restrictions. And not just the certificate... Degradation of the flag of a neighbouring country has also had an impact. There is no reason to believe that these losses will fall sharply, as the economic activity of allowing unvaccinated workers to work only remotely will not increase sufficiently. The system of government certificates encircles economic operators and the least secured. Certificates must be withdrawn immediately and without delay before 1 April. And, as is expected, the government is not going to change anything faster, but it needs to change now and now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U635	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? So, no. Please call me! We will vote for further progress of the draft decision “On 11 491 Latvian citizens’ collective application “On data-based vaccination certificate policy””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, The agenda of the sitting has been examined, but I have to inform you of the question and the answers scheduled today. Member of the Minister of Agriculture of Ulda Augulis, Jānis Dūklavs, Armands Krauze, Edgars Tatars and Viktors Valaiņš “On the grounds and Economic Benefits of the Planned Reform of the State Forest Service”. The written replies received are not satisfactory, but the oral Members do not wish to ask questions. Member Ramonas Petravičs, Alda Gobzems, Karina Sprūde, Māra Možvillo and Ralfa Nemiro, Minister for the Interior Marija Golubeva “On the reception of refugees from Ukraine” and Member Ramonas Petravičs, Māra Možvillo, Ralfa Nmiro, Karina Sprūde and Alda Gobzem, Prime Minister Artur Krišjānis Kariņš and Minister for the Interior Marija Golubeva “On the prevention of internal security and provocation”. The written replies received are not satisfied. The Minister of the Interior informs that he cannot attend the oral response because he is on a mission. Consequently, the question-and-answer meeting scheduled for today does not take place. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name For Inese Voika to read the registration results.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U636	Colleagues! Not registered: Aigars Bikše, Aldis Blumbergs, Sergey Dolgopolovs, Ilze Indricsone, Janīna Jalinska, Artuss Neimins... Artuss Kaimiņš is, Armands Krauze, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Maris Mičerevskis, Romanas Naudiņš, Igors Pimenovs, Dace Rukšāne-Ščipčinska, Karina Sprūde, Vita Anda Steel, Jānis Tutins (Dep. Tutin: “I’m here!” )... Well, John! So, John Tutin is... and Victor Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-03-PT13-2368-U637	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
