ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-24-PT13-2402-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room. We will begin the extraordinary session of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on August 24, 2022. On the agenda, a report by the Bureau on the own-initiative proposal submitted. Dear colleagues, Members Viktors Valainis, Jānis Vucāns, Uldis Augulis, Janīna Jalinska, Gundars Dauge, Romanas Monetiņš, Maris Kučinskis, Raimonds Bergmanis, Jānis Dūklavs, Edgars Tavars, Ramona Petravičs, Maris Možvello, Armands Krauze, Jūlija Stepanenko, Lubova Švekovs, Ralfs Nemiro, Karina Srūre, Ieva Krapāne, Kaspars Ģirgens, Didzis Šmits, Jānis Urbanovičs, Valerijus Agešins, Edgars Kucins, Igors Pimenovs, Ivan Klementjevs, Arturs Rubiks, Ivans Ribakovs, Zenta Tretjak, Jānis Krišāns, Janis Tutins, Boriss Cilevičs, Inga Goldbergs and Reginas Ločmeles are the reason for a state-made solution to a conflict-oriented solution for the protection of Latvia’s’s’s’s’s’s’s own-based solution. Are Members opposed to examining this own-initiative proposal at this parliamentary sitting? ( Milestones.) So there are objections. So... There is no debate here after the procedure; there is no time for speaking 'for' or 'no'. So Members have reservations. We must therefore decide on the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of the next sitting. One Member may speak in favour, one against and one against, on the agenda of the next sitting. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-24-PT13-2402-U2	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Next winter, the Prime Minister will raise his salary by 42 percent, and the Minister of Economics by 33 percent. ( Internouncing call.) If we look at the Latvian society, at present 60 percent of Latvian society has no increase in wages. Our government has failed to prevent teachers' picket and protest throughout the summer. We see that doctors are also preparing for protests. And all this happens on the background, when energy prices in Latvia are rising disproportionately. We see that 60 percent of Latvians will continue to live worse. At present, the increase in energy prices is estimated at EUR 2 billion. This is the real price increase for electricity and other energy sources. The government says – let's share this increase in half, but in essence offers only a quarter of the support. The support offered by such a government is now in Riga on energy issues... will have to pay twice as much bills as it has been so far, but most of the inhabitants of Riga have not received any additional income. Their income has remained at the same level as it has been before, but the bills will increase twice, including the support offered by the state. The same applies to both doctors and teachers. Colleagues, the current electricity price shock to Latvian society means the removal of savings even before the heating season. Heads of State, heads of state enterprises in summer called on people to save money - to save money to save in order to be able to pay heat bills in winter. This savings money is currently being paid for electricity bills. Instead the government drops, pours various types of support, but they are not enough, and they are not complex. Now too, not only when it comes to aid measures... I am absolutely convinced that there are no Members in the Saeima who would be convinced that we have enough energy resources at all for the winter to come. With this draft decision, we ask the government to explain the current situation, to give an evaluation to the Members on what the actual situation is. Government members, coalition parties in the public space ask questions about the fact that they need information about the actual energy situation. If the members of the government say so, then I can imagine how this is understood in this meeting room of the Saeima. Colleagues, there must be a complete solution, a complex, with an assessment, and it must be submitted to the Saeima. This draft decision is so simple in nature. We are asking for a full offer with an evaluation so that it is clear what the situation is and what the government's complex offer is. This is not enough at the moment. The extreme increase in electricity prices and also heat bills for people have not been assessed. You will agree, colleagues, that all this support that has been accepted is insufficient. We have heard the officials of Riga City Council who clearly say: there will be double the bills, including all this support. There is no difference in the situation in the regions, 60 percent of the Latvian population will not receive the wage increase that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Economics will receive. The Prime Minister's salary increase will be 42 percent. That may be why he does not worry so much about the winter ahead. Perhaps it is also logical, because such an increase, measured in thousands, is likely that all invoices will be paid. I call on the Saeima to put pressure on the government and to ask the government for an evaluation and a clear action plan, which has not been presented to the Saeima so far.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-24-PT13-2402-U3	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-24-PT13-2402-U4	I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-24-PT13-2402-U5	Thank you. ‘ Aldis Gobzems, the Member against’, has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-24-PT13-2402-U6	Hello! Energy, or electricity, is at the heart of each country's economy. Today the country is in a situation where this foundation does not exist; it has failed. The ruling coalition, the core of which has been formed by the same politicians since 2002, which emerged with the creation of the New Time Party, has failed in the implementation of the national energy policy. Let us remember that Pavulut, Asheraden, Kariņš, Gerhards, Wittenberg has been responsible for this sector, and the result is that at least three euros - on average - are paid to turn the washing machine on if it is not a dynamic tariff. The Ministry of Economy, the Prime Minister, the Public Service Regulatory Commission and the Heads of the Competition Council are those responsible for this. Michaelson and Gay are released right now! It would be convenient to refer to war and sanctions, but it is not true. The rise in energy prices began before the Russian invasion in Ukraine and the subsequent sanctions. None of the above mentioned " gentlemen" (I have spoken ironically) did absolutely nothing. Zero! Wittenberg pushed the ponchiks through the shelves of the store so that the virus would not spread. Knight, there's nothing... Nothing to add or take away. Well, and for Michaelson and Gaiki, I already gave my opinion in this speech. If you are now trying to find electricity price statistics, you will not succeed, dear people. This alone shows that the market does not function. The free market in electricity is just an eye trick. Both of these'gentlemen' - Michaelsson and Gaikis - and I stress the second time - I speak ironically to the word'gentlemen' - had to take care of the transparency of tariffs and the transparency of the market. There's nothing, an empty sound. Who wins it in Latvia? Nobody! However, there are some exceptions. Firstly, the Members of the New Unity here benefit: they gain... and their coalitions, “sensors”. Internally, before the elections, it was announced that the coalition had abolished the OIC. This has covered consumers’ bent backs, as no OICs are in substance eliminated. Secondly, once again, the benefit is the same coalition partners. In 2020, one household paid VAT for 175 kilowatt-hours - monthly consumption - and three phases of connection, which was 8 euros per month, whereas today it amounts to 18 euros per month. What do you think is the winner? The beneficiary is the current coalition, which can arm itself to the breast, claiming that it is overexploiting the state budget in order to continue to excite money as before - within the tradition of combating the virus... There you go! The electricity crisis only benefits the New Unity and its coalition. The crisis in which you, dear people, have to pay abnormal prices for electricity is so that the New Unity and Coalition can be proud that they are collecting VAT. They collect VAT, making the poor you, dear people, dear pensioners, dear parents of children. The electricity crisis is linked to specific names and names, and it is the names of both economic ministers and prime ministers. Karin has been Minister for Economics, Asheraden has been Minister for Economics (Unit and New Time). Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-24-PT13-2402-U7	Thank you, thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft decision “On targeted action of the government in response to the crisis caused by the rise in energy prices” in the agenda of the next meeting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 32, it's against - 42, it's not. Consequently, the draft decision is not on the agenda for the next sitting. Are there any proposals for its transfer to one of the commissions? Please turn on the microphone for Victor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-24-PT13-2402-U8	I propose that the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission be referred.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-24-PT13-2402-U9	Please turn on the microphone for Krišjānis Feldman. ( Pause) Turn on the microphone for Feldman!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-24-PT13-2402-U10	Good morning! Given that this is a very important issue, I suggest that I refer the matter to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-24-PT13-2402-U11	Thank you. So there are proposals for the transfer of two of the commissions. We will also vote on them. Please call me! We will vote for handing over to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy of the draft decision “On targeted action by the government in response to the crisis caused by the rise in energy prices”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 32, it's against - 42, it's not. The draft decision is therefore not referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. We will vote in favour of handing over the draft decision to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government. Please call me! We will vote for handing over the draft decision “On targeted action of the government in response to the crisis caused by the rise in energy prices” to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft decision has been submitted to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government. Dear colleagues, The agenda of the sitting has been examined. The round anniversary was celebrated on August 12 by our colleague Edgars Tavars, and we congratulate him. (Applause) Thank you. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name For Inese Voika to read the registration results.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-24-PT13-2402-U12	Colleagues! Not registered: Krista Baumane, Jānis Cielēns, Gundars Dauge, Raivis Dzintars, Marija Golubeva, Janīna Jalinska, Artuss Kaimiņš, Andrejs Klementjevs, Rihards Kols, Ieva Krapāne, Līva Kreituse, Māris Kučinskis, Atis Lejiņš, Viesturs Liepkalns, Eva Mārtuza, Ralfs Nemiro, Vladimir Nikonovs, Evija Papule, Eriks Pucens, Ivars Puga, Dace Rūksāne–Ščipčinska, Karina Snore, Edvins Šnore, Ilga Šuplinska and Jānis Vucans.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-24-PT13-2402-U13	Thank you. I therefore closed the extraordinary session of 24 August this year.
