ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! We will begin the sitting of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 12 May 2022. First of all, the amendments tabled to the agenda of the sitting. Members Juris Pūce, Viesturs Liepkalns, Mārtiņš Šteins, Aigars Bikše (Sitting Manager knocks down with a hammer.) and Krista Baumane asks that point 23 of the agenda – the draft law on civil union – be moved after point 16 of the agenda. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Members have reservations. We have to vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of bringing forward point 23 - Draft law on civil union - after point 16 - of the agenda! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Consequently, the decision was taken - paragraph 23 of the agenda moved after paragraph 16 of the agenda. Members Karina Sprūde, Maris Možvillo, Ramona Petraviča, Aldis Gobzems, Jūlija Stepanenko and Kaspars Ģirgens are asking to include in the agenda the referral of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax”. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? ( Interface: “Yes, yes! ” ) Please call us! To be put to the vote on the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax (No. 1464/Lp13) on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! 26, 50, abstain - not. Draft legislation shall not be included on the agenda of the sitting. The Cabinet of Ministers asks that the draft law “Amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Support Law” be included on the agenda of the sitting (No. 1465 Lp13) to commissions. Do Members object to the inclusion of a draft law on the agenda of the sitting? There is no objection. The draft law shall be placed on the agenda of the sitting. The Foreign Commission is asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendment to the treaties signed in Moscow on 30 April 1994 between the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation” and to include it in the agenda as item 1 of the agenda. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft law “Amendment to the Treaties of the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation signed in Moscow on 30 April 1994” on the agenda of the sitting as paragraph 1! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 65, it's against - 17, it's not. The decision was taken - the draft law was placed on the agenda as item 1 on the agenda. The Foreign Commission is asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendment to the law “On the double taxation and tax evasion agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Russian Federation regarding taxes on income and capital and its Protocol” and to consider it after the draft law “On the agreements signed between the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation in Moscow on 30 April 1994”. Are Members against (Interface: Yes!) ) the following amendment to the agenda? And the objections. Please call me! We will vote for the law “Amendment to the law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the elimination of double taxation and tax evasion in respect of income and capital taxes and its Protocol” and to include it in the draft law “On the treaties signed between the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation in Moscow on 30 April 1994”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 67, against - 17, refrains - not. The decision was taken – the draft law was included on the agenda of the sitting after the draft law “Amendment to the treaties signed by the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation in Moscow on 30 April 1994”. The independent group asks that point 23 of the draft law on civil union be excluded from the agenda of the sitting. Is there any Members (Interdependence.) ... Jūlija Stepanenko, Member, has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U2	Dear colleagues, This draft law, which is based on the judgment of the Constitutional Court, is being interpreted as an obligation of the Saeima to amend our fundamental values and to include them in our legal system. things like same-sex marriage... Let us speak a clear language! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldmans: “... lie all the time!’ ) Let us speak a clear language! A Conservative party that has promised its constituents to fight for family values could, of course, now also obey. But if we are talking about the fact that you are so impressed by the division of society these days that certain people who call themselves conservatives will certainly be very, very successful in the fact that today we are going to have a debate on the dismantling of the victory monument, and we are going to wash under the guise... You're going to wipe the bill under the guise of the law that ruins our fundamental values. ( Milestones.) You will do this quietly and invisibly, until the columns of all the newspapers are filled with a beautiful debate on how you divide society (one community against the other), and yet a quiet and invisible draft Civil Union law in which you, Conservatives, have sold your soul (Minimum: “What? Melo!’ ) will be voted in peace and you will not hear anything, no comments. I call - together with colleagues - to withdraw this draft law from the agenda of the Saeima sitting and pay particular attention to it when the agenda of the Saeima is fully focused on the draft law on Civil Union and all your voters, the whole society will be able to follow how you will be able to destroy Latvian values right now. I call for support. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. ( K. Feldman's intermediate call.) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U3	So Members have reservations. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of excluding paragraph 23 - the draft law on civil union - from the agenda of the sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 30, 42, abstaining, not. Draft legislation shall not be excluded from the agenda of the sitting. The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption is asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Political Parties” at first reading. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. And Members Maris Možvillo, Karina Sprūde, Aldis Gobzems, Ramona Petraviča, Jūlija Stepanenko and others are asking that the draft decision on the abolition of the mandatory electricity procurement component (OIC) be included on the agenda of the sitting (No. 920/Lm13). Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ ) Please call us! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft decision on the cancellation of the mandatory electricity procurement component (OIC) on the agenda of the sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 33, it's against - 50, it's not. The draft decision shall not be placed on the agenda of the sitting. Ladies and gentlemen, let us begin to review the agenda of the sitting as approved. First of all, reports by the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” presented by Member Viktors Valaiņa, Ulda Augulis, Armands Krauze, Edgars Tatars and Janina Jalinska be handed over to the Budget and Finance (Dep. Ms Beitnere-Le Galla: “There’s another. There's what we changed." )... I am sorry, my fellow Members, indeed (Interface.) The agenda of the sitting was changed, I am sorry. So, the Bureau reports. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law submitted by the Foreign Affairs Commission “Amendment to the Treaties of the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation signed in Moscow on 30 April 1994” be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ ) Do Members have objections? ( Interface: “Yes. ”) ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Foreign Affairs Commission the draft law “Amendment to the treaties signed in Moscow on 30 April 1994” establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. And the Commission has asked for this draft law to be examined immediately at first reading. Are Members opposed to the examination of the draft law (Interface: Yes!) ) at first reading? Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the agreements signed by the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation in Moscow on 30 April 1994”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Consequently, the Saeima has decided to examine the draft law immediately - at first reading. The name of the rapporteur. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U4	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear Members, honourable Members, Before looking at draft laws at first reading, on behalf of the Foreign Affairs Commission, I ask the Saeima to support the urgency of the draft law. ( Interface: “The double doesn’t break. ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U5	Members have not applied to speak about the urgency of the matter or of the urgency of the matter. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the treaties signed by the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation in Moscow on 30 April 1994”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -69, against -17, refrains - not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U6	Thank you very much, colleagues, for supporting the urgency. We started to examine the draft law “Amendment to the agreements signed by the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation in Moscow on 30 April 1994” at first reading. Dear colleagues, for the draft of the law itself. Shortly after Russia's large-scale comprehensive military invasion in Ukraine, along with political statements aimed at attracting international aid and... drawing attention to the crimes committed by Russia in Ukraine, at the end of March the Foreign Affairs Commission of the Saeima also initiated a process that would allow us to review our relations with an aggressor state - the Russian Federation - and our commitments and their adequacy at the moment, with due consideration of all the bilateral agreements concluded. As we know, Russia has attacked Ukraine. According to the internationally accepted definition of the United Nations General Assembly resolution of 14 December 1974, the Russian invasion in Ukraine is considered an aggression. Latvia has strongly condemned Russia's military aggression and large-scale invasion in Ukraine. Latvia also condemns all crimes against humanity and genocide and is aware of its obligation to recognise and prevent these crimes in order to ensure their non-repeatability. 58 bilateral agreements have been concluded between Latvia and the Russian Federation, some of which have already become obsolete. The Foreign Affairs Commission has been reviewing the treaties for several weeks to decide whether to suspend or terminate their activities in the light of the new geopolitical reality. Some contracts were technical, others - context-saturated and debate-driven, for example, on ensuring the cost of pensions. On 6 May this year, the Foreign Affairs Commission concluded this process by agreeing on a recommendation on a number of agreements and suspension agreements. Two of them must be decided by the Saeima. We're looking at the first of them. The Foreign Commission supported the intention to suspend the Article of the Latvian-Russia agreement, which regulates the maintenance of memorial buildings and places of mass burial. The Commission assessed Article 13 of the Inter-national Agreement on the Social Protection of Military Pensioners of the Russian Federation residing on the territory of Latvia and members of their families, which has so far been cited as, among other things, the main argument (The Hall of Noise). The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) In Riga, Victory Park, protection of existing monument. The Latvian side has always complied with its commitments in good faith and remains committed to comply with the requirements of international law. That is exactly what we are doing by suspending this treaty... operation. I invite you to listen to the interpretation of the legal aspect: ‘In accordance with modern international law, any State has the right to take action against a State which violates its obligations towards the international community as a whole in order to ensure that the prevention and repatriation of the breach is carried out in the interest of the injured State or in the interest of the beneficiaries of the breach. The prohibition of aggression... is an imperative rule of general international law. Thus, all States have the right to take countermeasures against the Russian Federation.’ Moreover, ‘... all States, in cases of gross violation by a State of their obligations under the mandatory rules of general international law, shall be obliged to cooperate in order to bring to an end by legal means significant and systematic violations of the mandatory rules of international law, and States may not recognise as a legal situation arising from a serious infringement or to support the maintenance of such a situation.’ In particular: ‘The international community... is obliged to cooperate and take counter-measures to motivate Russia to put an end to the violations of international law and to fully compensate for the infringements already committed’. Russia is purposefully strengthening today's associations of the Russian Federation with the Soviet Union. Both the rhetoric of officials and the imperial space are full of attempts to justify the Russian army's activities in Ukraine - the need to eliminate fascism and prevent genocide, to bring its so-called special military operation into line with the Soviet army and its achievements, freeing European countries from Fascism. The image and symbolism of the Soviet army is now directly and clearly related to the aggression of Russia and the crimes committed by its armed forces in Ukraine. Addressing monuments, monuments that praise the Soviet army or its repressive institutions and power, it is being used purposefully as part of today's Russian policy of reviewist history. Russia is thus seeking to strengthen its influence in the territories that were occupied by the USSR during the Cold War or its satellite states. For this purpose, rhetoric about the Soviet victory over Nazism in World War II is widely used. It is used both as a tool for mobilizing Russian-speaking people and subjecting them to the so-called Russian-spoken interpretation of history, as well as to the demoralisation of the inhabitants of Latvia, thus sowing a scandal and disbelief in their country and seeking to build a separate collective identity, one that is acceptable at the foot of the monument in Pārdaugava on 9 May to celebrate the day of victory. Nowadays, victory monuments and similar buildings everywhere in Latvia have become a catalyst for post-Soviet nostalgia of Russian media for the population. Most view it as a symbol of Soviet occupation. The debate on symbols always has an emotional and unfortunately tragic background, which is confirmed by objective indicators. In the Second World War Latvia lost about 600 thousand people, or almost a third of its population. Today, Russia is targeting not only the Ukrainian army but also the civilian population with serious crimes against humanity, war crimes and violations of international norms that can be violated. Today's Latvian public space should not be a symbolic and famous sculpture of the occupation power, which justifies and glorifies the occupation regime, crimes against humanity committed by the Soviet army and today by the Russian Federation in Ukraine. In the light of these considerations, the Foreign Affairs Commission has decided to suspend Article 13 of the Agreement until Russia has brought to an end violations of international law concerning Ukraine, including the withdrawal of its armed forces from the territory of Ukraine, the restoration of the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine in accordance with the requirements of international law, and full compensation to Ukraine for violations of international law already committed. The scope of Article 13 shall be determined by the words ‘in accordance with international practice’. In recent years, the geopolitical situation has changed and thus international practice, where more and more countries are critical of maintaining the symbol of war. The history of Latvia is not black and white, it is difficult, and events in recent months have made our perception and our mutual relations even more difficult. In recent years, the geopolitical situation and, therefore, international practice have changed. As a result, more and more countries are critical of maintaining the symbol of war. A relatively large number of monuments in other European countries have also been destroyed or transferred. Aware of the damage caused by the Second World War to Europe and its citizens, several countries have chosen to move the symbols of war and victory glorification from public places to museums or graves, to reconstruct them or to demolish them. The change of geopolitical conditions and international practice means that Latvia cannot and will not have an obligation to preserve such buildings as monuments of Soviet occupation. Therefore, in any case, there is reason to believe that Latvia's obligations - in accordance with Article 13 of the Agreement - no longer apply to such a building as a monument. Colleagues, I would also like to thank you before the first vote for drafting this law... in consultation with the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, in particular Mārtiņš Birģelis. I would also like to thank the Ministry of Foreign Affairs... Mrs Kristīne Līce, as well as the Ministry of Justice, for consultation so that we can prepare a legally and legally correct bill on the suspension of this commitment. On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I call for the adoption of the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U7	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Krista Bauman.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U8	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Everyone who looks at us and listens to us! The monument to the Latvian people in Pārdaugava is a symbol of the Soviet occupation. Since 24 February, it has also become a symbol of Russian war crimes committed by USSR heirs in Ukraine. I believe that this has no place in our country and in the capital of our country. I know that most of Latvia's society thinks the same way. Until now, Latvia's actions regarding the monument and other memorial structures have been restricted by bilateral agreements with Russia on the removal of the armed forces concluded in 1994. The Foreign Affairs Commission of the Saeima and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have worked closely and hard together in recent weeks to find a legally correct way to terminate the clause on the maintenance of memorial buildings, and this has now been done. I would like to emphasise that Latvia - unlike Russia - is a legal state. The existence of our independence depends, as a matter of urgency, on respect for international law. If Russia insists on international law, that does not mean that we can do the same. Colleagues, I invite you to familiarize yourself with the detailed reasoning given in the annex to this draft law, which, in line with current international law, allows for the unilateral termination of the particular clause of the treaty. With this action, we take responsibility and acquire the right to determine what is happening in our country with Soviet monuments and other memorial structures, without leaving the heir of the Soviet Union who is attacking its neighbour in the middle of Europe in the 21st century, murderers and rape innocent people. Colleagues, I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U9	Thank you. The name to Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U10	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Good morning, colleagues! This issue has been muttered for a very long time, for 20 years... this monument... we are actually talking about one essential item located in Pārdaugava, but in principle not only... 20 years or more. Perhaps it has been politically even beneficial for one or the other, but let us not talk about it this time, because we have been far enough. There are two things here: the first is a legal aspect, the second is a symbolism. If we are talking about the legal aspects, let us not forget that the treaty (we are talking about this time about the clauses of the contract or the existence or absence of an activity) is a bilateral act. So closed between two countries. Colleagues, how does the Russian Federation take care of burial sites and memorial sites in Latvia? Don't care. So, if any party does not care about burial sites that are our funeral sites, in what sense do we have to think about full spectrum compliance with contractual obligations? It is an act of bilateral will in which each party is required to respect its rights and obligations under one, the other or the third contract, but in any case must comply with it. The Russian Federation has not complied with many treaties. If, for example, we are talking about the territorial integrity and inviolability of Ukraine, then there is also a treaty. And what's up with this contract? It's not really working. It is therefore perfectly normal to talk from a legal point of view about whether or not these contracts have been performed and about the consistency resulting from this. Thank you to the Foreign Affairs Commission for this initiative, especially at this moment, when it is really very topical. The other thing is about... Let us talk about symbolism. What is the symbolism of these many Soviet occupations that have been ruined throughout the territory of Latvia - for us it was occupation! - Army flags: one bigger, one smaller... One city, two, three... as much as possible scattered at every corner so that you can never pass through a Soviet building... a design symbol. Pardaugava has one of the most important and most important symbols, let us say. Here's what people are trying to say to these symbols: those who come to this kind of action, especially at a time when there are nations that suffer greatly from the violence committed by Russian aggression by its troops... In my opinion, it is time to put an end to the lupata policy, to constantly muzzle and not go ahead, but at one point either to decide that we are moving towards the dismantling, release, conversion of this monument and other monuments... any other legal solution, or admit that we still cannot deal with such cases. In my opinion, it is time to make bold decisions and move forward, however. How long can we live in the past and remind each other of it all the time? If we are talking about memorial sites, then memorial sites mean a mourning event, especially in this case, about those who have fallen in war, but, as we see, these measures are often turned into measures to praise another country. There are dancing, singing, scabbardling, fireworks, and everything else that is completely incompatible with memory events. It is directly related to praise, joy. What are you happy about? What are you happy about?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, The fact that people have died during the war? The fact that there have been Heads of State who have decided to divide different territories in favour of one or the other power? Nothing happy in this context is there. Thus, these memorial sites can only be organised objectively in the context of flower laying or something like that, and there is, of course, no room for such huge monuments. Here, too, we have recently talked about the heir of rights. Let us not forget that Russia is not the heir of the rights of the USSR, it is the heir of rights only in part - and only in the part in which it has benefited. Another thing about which time those who are going there have been touched by flags, ords and all kinds of jewelry, or, more specifically, by some metallic attributes, was that the USSR was also composed of Ukraine, which the Russian Federation has now waged war against. Then that man who's touched on medals and touched on flags--he's got to-- Do you know where he came to and what kind of situation is there? Given that the USSR, which allegedly won the Second World War, also consisted of Ukraine, which is currently under way as a genocide, as we have recognised here, it will obviously also be a question for legal experts, but in any case this question has not been answered by them. Colleagues, I think we need to move forward. This document and the question of the termination of the article are, on the one hand, justified in law; on the other, it is justified by the fact that it is a symbolism and we must reject these symbols. Let us live for the future, not always in the past. All the historical evidence that we, our children and our future generations, will need will be able to provide the education system outside any monument. Thirdly, we really need to make bold decisions so that we can get rid of a number of things, thus showing that we can think boldly and for our future. I call for support for the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U11	Thank you. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U12	Good morning, Madam President-in-Office of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, Until recently, it would be unimaginable and I would not even believe that the Saeima would be able to examine such a draft law that is going in the direction of preventing the consequences of occupation. Many who have been living in Latvia for 30 years have forgotten what happened during the occupation, which took place during the Second World War as a result of various acts of occupation troops, and have agreed that the consequences of its occupation will remain here perhaps for a long time. Like a lot of reconciliation... And it's almost day-to-day... and don't think about genocide against Ukrainian people anymore... what is currently happening in Ukraine. The number of glues is already becoming everyday, and I call on you not to forget and set aside your emotions when we hear about the beasts in Ukraine. We have also tried to address the issue of the occupation monument in this Saeima. For us, this ended in 2019 with nothing (when the signatures were collected) because the Saeima had no courage. Today, I have reason to believe that the Saeima will adopt this bill at both first and second readings, with the exception of the obvious supporters of Russia's imperialist and criminal policy. It should be recalled that the treaty which the draft law talks about to suspend Article 13 is not in itself... and does not provide for protection of that monument. Unfortunately, in the 1990s, there has obviously been a correspondence between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the relevant institutions of Russia, essentially creating a situation where we are placed in the role of hostage. We now have to stop Article 13 of this Treaty in order to respect all rules of international law. We are ready to do that. This obstacle must be removed. But not only is this monument located in the so-called Victory Park; there are about 300 other objects that have to be removed and which in every village and region reminds of the atrocities of the Second World War, including the robbery of Soviet occupation troops, rapes in the whole territory of Latvia. To achieve this, this Saeima will have to make very courageous decisions, because I have no illusions that all municipalities or the owners of these monuments will act responsibly to prevent the consequences of occupation. The government has also discussed this issue, and therefore the Ministry of Justice has prepared an information report. And you know - until the vote last sitting, when Conservatives tabled a draft decision on this subject, which, thanks to the votes of patriotic Members, came to the agenda, calling a storm of indignation for those Members who voted against this draft decision into the agenda... and in the end, thus, creating this consensus, which we will observe today, this report by the Ministry of Justice, turns out to have moved forward within a week. Even the Ministry of the Interior has harmonised it without reservations this week. It has also been agreed without reservations by the State Security Service. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, whose aim and concern is only about the validity or absence of this article, says: it is very good that there will be this draft law; they do not, of course, already worry about dismantling as such, but essentially they also agree with this information report. The Constitutional Protection Bureau points out the risks that could arise and which we must take into account while continuing the fight against the consequences of occupation, for example, there will be various cyber attacks, political ridicule and such things. This list of risks will be publicly available and will be made available to everyone. I therefore conclude that the courage that had to be achieved here is rooted in a society that forced most Members to express their support for this idea at the end of the last sitting - both on the suspension of Article 13 of the Treaty in relation to memorial constructions and on the dismantling of the monument. I remind you that this is only the first step. Many ask why? Is there really a connection to this occupation monument in Pardaugava with what is happening in Ukraine? It is direct communication not only that people go and praise the aggressor there, but they celebrate... It is the honour of Russia's imperialism, which is celebrated there. When Latvia was occupied... After World War II... It was the consequence of Russia’s imperialist thinking at that time. And the invasion of Ukraine is also a direct continuation of this policy. Thus, we can see that there has been no change in the ideological mood or attitude of the civilised world in Russia. Thank you to all those involved in the preparation of the bill - both Mr Kola and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Justice and Members who will support and ensure the so-called great urgency... which provided already great urgency to this draft law. But I only hope that, when the Saeima is to take the next decisions on this road, including the dismantling of the Pārdaugava Room, unity between Members will be as strong as today. So that we do not get this: yes, we are in favour of stopping Article 13 of the Treaty, yes, but breaking it down - there is a need to assess, and we need to consult experts at all, how it was and how it was, and it is very difficult at all to break it down, because there is a large bit of concrete in the country of Latvia. We Conservatives will do our utmost to light any attempt to hinder the physical dismantling of this monument. That's what I'm telling you now. I call for support. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U13	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U14	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, First of all, I want to share with you. A short while ago, my colleague, Mr Tatar, and I discussed the 1994 photos: this agreement was signed solemnly - Mr Ulmanis and Mr Yeltsin... The two presidents sign together, and they hit the champagne's glasses as well... Of course, at the very heart and also in all the headlines of the news... is the title of the fact that this treaty is already in essence about the removal of the Russian army. These are the circumstances... And, of course, in society too, this article of Article 13, on which we will decide today, was not given such great attention; at that time, we - as a country - had quite other challenges. And despite the fact that for a large part of society this monument in Pārdaugava was already caused by completely different associations - not by victory but, quite the contrary, as colleagues have said here - by occupation. And at the time when this monument was built... Well, that's also the way it all happened - all of this, I think, raised questions for many people in Latvia. Today, however... and we must all be open... With this monument we have lived for many years, and we have seen various political initiatives, citizens' initiatives to break down this monument. For many years, we have also exchanged views here in the Saeima on whether or not to be, and this article 13 of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has always been mentioned... It is being imposed and reminded: colleagues, we have a commitment, we have a commitment, we have an agreement, we have a contract with a country, we respect our principles. But to be honest, I think that, until 24 February 2022, when Russia started its invasion into Ukraine, such a vote would not have been possible in the Saeima. The situation has changed significantly after 24 February and we hear about new, horrifying things day and day after day. And what makes me happy? From day to day, the fact that the European Union is becoming more united at various levels - on economic issues as well as on values - in the fight against Russia. And in this case... indeed, here, thank you to all those - both the legal forces and the political forces - who have agreed to draft this law. And today will be the day when the Saeima will vote and, by a majority, will support the draft law, which will, by its very nature, give the green light for the dismantling of this monument. It's a thing that wasn't possible, and about it... I think there would be an absolute minority in this Saeima if we encouraged it before 24 February. After 24 February we see another Russia, we see a different situation and this issue of values is becoming increasingly important. Of course, people who really go and remember fallen relatives cannot be underestimated, but memorial places remain in Latvia, and will be able to do so in the future. It will be a place other than a monument in Pārdaugava. Colleagues! In this case, I would also like to turn to the representatives of the government... May 9 and 10 were also very significant dates. And during this government it is not the first time that we see that this government is not facing challenges, with provocations. Colleagues! We, the Saeima, adopted a number of laws after 24 February... We unanimously adopted a series of draft laws and decisions - unanimously, without calling into question, giving the government all the necessary instruments to address the risks of provocation; to give the government the tools to be able to bring our society more together. And in this case... If we, the Saeima, take this decision, I would call on all those involved, especially those politicians who are responsible for these security issues, especially government ministers, to take very carefully, with much more serious treatment of security issues, provocations and other matters. At the moment, I see that the government is unable to deal with these issues. I'm sorry. And on 9 and 10 May was a bright example of this. If we give this instrument and adopt all necessary laws, we must be aware that it will - and it will! - Also the consequences. And we need to understand that the government must be prepared to address these issues. At the moment, I am not sure that this would be the case. By voting for this bill... I call on every Member to do everything possible, so that ministers also take this issue seriously. We, the Group of the Greens/Family Union, have already called today on the Ministers of the Interior to meet to discuss these issues... What just happened this week, on 9 and 10 May, at the Victory monument. Colleagues, in this case, I want to see a responsible attitude directly from the ministers so that this decision is implemented in good faith. Colleagues, I call for support for this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U15	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U16	Dear Saeima! I would like to begin by thanking those who, finally, after all these years! - have been able to meet together and prepare this legal solution. In particular, I would like to thank the head of the Saeima's Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as well as the lawyers who have worked on this issue, in order to prepare for the international practice of a legal solution that is in line with international treaties. For years it was said that it was impossible, but there were people who believed that they had to. At the time, there were no important arguments that even the politically oppressed had to look at this shame every year since the restoration of independence... shameful stain that was found in the heart of the capital of Latvia and also in many other places of Latvia. At that time, these people were melted, called radicals, and a hundred and one excuses were sought. Could we make this decision more quickly? Of course. To accept it, it was not necessary to wait for these bloody events that began on 24 February. We were able to make an identical decision already in 2014, when the Russian occupying troops attacked the independent Ukraine. We were able to make the same decision already in 2008, when the Russian occupations invaded Georgia. We could have already made the same decision at that time on the basis of the same rules that we have prepared today. My colleague, Edwin Snore, warned that many sleep in lethargy and that really terrible events are needed so that people will have to rest to see that there is a fifth column in our midst to notice that we are in the Russian dependency chain. I would say that this memory has now taken place. Even those who've just been to the Saeima... supported the preservation of the object of the victory square, has changed its views and will today be ready to support this draft law. Painful forces are needed to grow the spine for the majority of politicians. I hope that we will also be able to make even more decisive decisions, even more important decisions, which not only concern the monuments that are important in relation to our national security. We don't have anything to fear at the moment. In November 1918 the patriots of our country could be afraid - at the time when the independent state of Latvia was established, but there were two other troops in this territory and we did not have our own army. Could have been afraid in 1990, when it wasn't created... the Latvian army was not restored and Russian occupation troops were present on our territory. Now we have our own country, our own armed forces, we are part of the world's strongest military alliance, and we must not be afraid of our own country, of the provocations that can be carried out by forces that hate our country. Not only do I hope that we will adopt this law today, but I also hope that in the very near future, in the coming months, no occupation will be found in the territory of Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U17	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U18	Dear colleagues, A little over 50 percent of the people with the right to vote in Latvia participated in the Saeima elections, and most of these 50 percent chose members that are currently members of the Saeima. And now I will speak on behalf of my constituents, who are loyal citizens for Latvia, and I think I will say what they would like to say to the whole of society, because they cannot. I can do that, so I'm here. I have never personally caught votes at the Victory monument, as perhaps other politicians did, using the situation by means of commemorative measures, turning them into an election campaign. And their responsibility right now is that they have to say something, but they don't, unfortunately, say... So I'll say, because on the morning of May 10, you also cut off the flowers that my loved ones and my friends were carrying. — Int. memory of their relatives, of their family members, because it's very important to them - it's their history, and it's their life. And have to be very naive to think that... Those who have some fucking plan to think about it will try to show these events to you as a series of random coincidences: “Yes, the flowers are dead, we wanted to get in order more quickly... Yes, the monument is probably in a dangerous situation, in a dangerous situation - it should be restricted." And you really think that this fucking plan, which you are not going to cross Latvia at the moment, will not be noticed? It is quite clear what the decision makers were thinking, and it is a pity that we are hearing from a troupe today that this is a bold decision, that we could never imagine that we would ever be able to decide something like that. And these words are not about the growth of Latvia's economy or about the protection of family values, but they are about planting hatred in society, because you are very well aware of what you are doing at the moment. And the parliamentary Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity, which will probably no longer have anything to do, because society will no longer be united by such a decision, could definitely be eliminated and Mr Judine could go home and not get this salary. This is not a bold decision, my fellow Members, this is a decision that will divide society today into two parts and will try to bring about unprecedented negation in society. This is not much to be allowed by society's mindset. If you could take it... Be so brave and go talk... go to the people who have ever elected you, or to those people who are currently simply paying taxes so that you can sit in the Saeima and receive transport compensation, you will certainly hear from them that they are all afraid. And they're all afraid of the decisions you make here, playing with your power. They want to live in a peaceful Latvia, with a peaceful society. They think and save money on autumn bills. Instead of deciding today how we will live in the autumn and how we can feed our families and heat our homes in the winter at all, you are now proud of the brave decisions that will cause - unfortunately will cause! - negative consequences. That is what we all see and understand. And I can only hope and pray that those people to whom you are going to hurt today keep their minds, keep their emotions calm and keep their hatred, as you would like from them. ( Milestones.) We're gonna stand. We will endure, colleagues, your madness too. We will endure your madness, and we will be wise and expect you to go away, because as much as you have done over people has probably not been done by any member of the Saeima. ( Insight: “Who has done more than men? ” ; methacrylics.) Colleagues! I ask you to think about what you are doing right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U19	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U20	Ladies and gentlemen! In ancient times... And the first men called for themselves gods, and idols, and made places for their glory, and offered sacrifices, and made flowers. If it didn't help, the first thing they did was to ruin those places. Something similar happens today. I do not remember that some monument - irrespective of anybody or wherever - would have proposed a war, proposed a crisis, proposed things and actions that... It would be ashamed if the monument did. People do everything. People! Indeed, the only truth that was heard today is that the geopolitical situation has changed very strongly, life in our world has changed dramatically. And it was caused not only by a pandemic, not only by the war in Ukraine, by a really heavy and unjust war; it was caused by a number of factors, including the invisible... The beginning of the unprecedented and unprecedented economic crisis so far. Start, I underlined. And in this case, people are becoming dissatisfied - in all people. There's growing emotions that's waving. This is demonstrated not by the experience of Latvia, but by the experience of the world. Yellow vests in Paris and other French cities - is this not a kind of signal of people's displeasure with what is happening around them and with them? This is very serious because it creates a negative flow of emotions that can reach critical mass. It is crazy, because it started to develop revolutionary situations, unfortunately. What to do in this case? Try to put some dams in order to divide, limit its emotions, or try to find the reasons why it arose... Why do people grow in fear of everything? Fear of war, fear of your life, fear of the future - your future, the future of your family, the future of your country. That's all, that's the fact. And politicians come up here to help. The politicians' task, however, is to keep... the worse the situation, because people who see themselves as politicians must have a cooler mind - a cooler mind. What are we going to do today, talking about bold decisions, about everything else? Even on the draft decision... on the draft law, we courageously suspend the paragraph. For what? We live in an independent state, a democratic state. We decide for ourselves what to do and what not to do. We do this ourselves - we stop it. Stopping means stopping for a certain time or until a certain time. Then what? Really, what's going to happen after that? Well, you're gonna break down the monument, one, the other, but what's going to change with it? By the way, the fight against monuments is a very exciting process, and it is only in the initial phase. Today it is a monument to Pārdaugava. It has already been said that it should also be remembered plates, one another, to remove. Let's say, for what in Riga, next to the university, is Kelditis' memorial plate? Who's Keldish? President of USSR Academy of Sciences. It's okay that he's a Rigaian and a great scientist. Perhaps you should also break down the monument to Maris Lieps, who was an artist of the USSR and danced most of his life in Moscow's Grand Theatre, not in Riga. Maybe that's right. Is this the solution? And what about the monument to the red strife built in Soviet times? The name has been changed, the monument is standing on site, but the essence should be dismantled. The dismantling process is more gambling than gambling, and I feel everyone will do it. Why does it all appear? It seems to me that the biggest problem today (and it is not just the problem of Latvia, it is also the problem of our neighbours and the problem of Europe and the countries of the world, not only the problem of democracy, totalitarian - of all countries) - that is, forgive me, the mouse of politicians. And when this mouse becomes aggressive, it's crazy... crazy picture. The worse the mouse-- the worse the events, the worse the life for ordinary people. Today, unfortunately, there is a situation that is worrying not only in the whole world, but also in Latvia, which, to be honest, is also stimulated by the upcoming elections. Elections, of course, play a very negative role in making any decision. Today's decision is also very negative, because those who vote in favour or vote against may think that it will affect the outcome of the elections. Not at all. It will only affect the fate of every individual person who sees himself as politicians, not more. Therefore, when we think about the future, when we think about dealing with today's situation, we must first of all think about people; secondly - as Mr Pabrik said very well today morning - that politicians in particular must keep their blood and their minds warm. I'd still have clean hands on it. I'm not calling anyone today... I do not want to say how these documents should or should not be voted on. I just want to pray to God: God, protects from this aggressive greying, God, preserves Latvia for future generations of friendly life - a life where there is no source of hatred and a source of hatred, a life that would be pleasant, dear to the people who were, and would be, great and normal patriots of Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U21	Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U22	Hello, colleagues! Is this a bold decision that we are making today? I mean, no. Because it should have been done a long time ago. ) Today it is a late decision. I would say that it was supposed to be adopted in the 1990s - when Lenin was laid off with a crane, it was also necessary to dismantle this monument. Today it is a kind of embarrassment, by the way, for quite a long time, but I am glad that it has happened because I think that those who are talking to us here so younger do not remember those times. ( The box “Remembrances! ”) ) You may have thought about someone, you may not have thought, but I remember, as at the time of my childhood, when I went to Pardaugava, my parents talked about this monument. They hated it because it was a symbol of occupation. I remember my mom coming out of work and said that the Communists, some Polish people there, have demanded the donation of 25 rubles, voluntary donations to build this monument. If my parents already donated money on a voluntary basis, then I think we have the right to break it off as voluntarily today. And it should have been broken a long time ago, as I said. This monument is a symbol of occupation and has nothing to do with those who have fallen into the Second World War. We know very well what the repressive Soviet regime, which was a sign of equality, did... The Nazi regime. The difference is that the world was over with the Nazis, but there was no difference with the Soviet Union. I think that even today Latvia is entitled to repatriation from Russia, who is the heir of the Soviet Union... the successor. Latvia has suffered, our economy has been destroyed. If we talk about those whom we mention there - yes, we mention soldiers who may have fallen somewhere in the Second World War fighting on one side or on the other side. But at the moment, this monument is associated with what is happening in Buča. And then I remember again how my grandparents told me that those who entered Latvia in 1940 were very similar to those who were now trying to get to Kijiva. They came in puffics, stinking, and cut a gold cross from my grandmother's neck. That's what I was told. And now we are saying that this monument must be preserved? No, it doesn't need to be saved. I really call on all Members to vote in favour and not to vote against or to abstain. And this is not about hatred, it is about the fact that this monument has humiliated the Latvian people and it has to be removed. It is a scar in Riga, it is a scar in all over Latvia, and it must be flat. It cannot exist anymore. If we are talking about what is different from today - Russia is no longer a democratic country today, there is a fascist regime in Russia. Then was Yeltzin, then was a democratically elected president and parliament. Now there is no smell from democracy in Russia. And I cannot imagine, for example, that in 1944 some democratic countries would have liked to discuss... diplomatic talks with Nazi Germany. No such thing was possible at the time, but the question was whether Nazi Germany could be capitalised. And now there's a similar situation. Russia is an aggressor, Russia is not a democratic state, Russia is a fascist state. So what we're doing here - I think it's embarrassing, because it should have been done a long time ago, and thank you to all those who will vote in favour. I call on everyone to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U23	The name of the Member, John Isal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U24	Hello, colleagues! A little more than a month ago, I was delighted by the fact that, following the Russian invasion in Ukraine, the Saeima started to implement the National Alliance programme at an accelerated pace. At the time, I ended my speech with the conviction that we will also break down the pillar of these occupations in Pārdaugava early or late... with your collective support. Now... Today we are taking a very wide-ranging step in this work... the performance of the task. Let us continue with the National Alliance's programme! If 10 years ago we were alone in this claim, now only the branch of “United Russia” in the Latvian Parliament is opposed to this requirement, which was also widely represented on 9 May, as if individually placing flowers at this shame room in Pārdaugava. Colleagues, if someone else has doubts about what kind of public this monument is sacred and what kind of people go there, I recommend you look at the news story of the Latvian Television Panoramas yesterday, where people with very similar faces and beliefs are about three minutes long... What sort of Ukrainians were killed in Buča, raped, raided... freely expressed its confidence on Latvian Television. It's very good that they were shown - these disgusting pussies. Let us break down the sanctity of this disgusting pussies in our capital!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U25	The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U26	Colleagues, as early as 2017, I became convinced of the number of invertebrate creatures walking here in the Saeima, as well as in ministerial buildings. As a municipal Member, I was calling for an evaluation of this building and this famous cannon - with an invitation: if there are burial sites, they would be moved to the cemetery, where fallen soldiers had been buried. It would be the right place to mention this day and the soldiers who have fallen, and it would also be the place where flowers should lie. For my part, therefore, I call for support for this draft law and for it to move forward. But I'm going to remind you what these are, and I'm going to remind you that there's the so-called Maslov's pyramid. The first step of this pyramid is the basic needs we need for life. And we also have the next items on the agenda... both the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Added Values”... especially on food, now also on fuel. And these are the issues where I will very much await you, Members, for an active discussion and for the stories that are now taking place in the ministries, as progress is being made towards reducing the cost. And the next step in this Maslov's pyramid is security. Here, however, I would ask every Member to think about what internal security we have at the moment. Is Maria Golubeva the Minister who will be able to arrange this security for us in an X hour? I will mention that information has already been given today about the fact that the National Association has requested the Demission of Maria Golubeva. I think we should certainly join this demand, because the internal system, internal security, are in a very critical position for us. We see that the reforms are not going forward in the last year. And I still doubt how loyal it is or how loyal it can be to all security staff. That is why I call first of all to remember the first steps of the Maslova pyramid that I mentioned, because in this way we can take care of loyal people in Latvia, and I will not agree, as has been said in the press on the part of the Member, that we will achieve loyalty by means of the law. The law cannot achieve loyalty. Towards economic development - that is the direction in which we must go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U27	Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U28	Good morning, honourable Saeima! The Russian invasion in Ukraine and the release of Latvia from the Hitlers are two different events, although the current Russian leadership may also want to spread their great victory over their invasion in Ukraine, just as the authors of this draft law and those who support them are trying to spread the invasion in Ukraine to victory over Hitler. The monument in Pārdaugava is a monument to the Red Armies who freed Latvia from the Histlers. The Red Army has released Latvia, allies Western Europe. The Russian army has nothing to do with the Red Armies. The Day of Victory is the day of victory over the chitlerians and only over them. Monument in Pārdaugava is not a Russian monument and is not a Russian monument. The Red Army (Independence.) ... Around 100,000 Latvians and other Latvians fought in the Red Army. ( Milestones.) The monument in Pārdaugava is as Latvian monument as Russian monument. I would remind you that more than two thousand Ukrainians became heroes of the Soviet Union, and this is the peak of the masculinity of the army. As it was with medals unmarked characters - Ukrainian and Latvian - it is impossible to imagine. Unlike the authors of the bill and those who call for its support, President of Ukraine Volodimir Zelenski does not separate himself from the ancestors who hit the Hitlers. It was on 9 May that he spoke to his people as follows: “Today we celebrate the victory over Nazism, and we will not give back any part of our history. We are proud of our ancestors who have won Nazism together with other peoples of the anti-hitleric coalition. On the day of victory, we fight Nazism for a new victory. The road to this is heavy, but we have no doubt that we will win.” Unlike those who support the destruction of monuments located in Latvia, the President of Ukraine does not avoid victory of his people in the Second World War, from 9 May, but finds strength in it for a new fight. There are enough politicians in Latvia who have accepted the message of Russian aggression as a celestial manna. Now it seems to them that one can cut a monument, a memory of our grandparents, and an education in Russian. Our obstinate memory deliberately refuses to distinguish the Ukrainian tragedy from the Second World War... It seems easier for them to prove that the Red Armies and the Russian army are the same people, then the liberator's monument in Pārdaugava will become a monument to Putin, and the day of victory - the release of Ukraine. The story is not just about the liberator monument in Pārdaugava. There are more than 300 monuments and memorial sites in Latvia outside burial places, outside brother graves connected with the Second World War and the Red Army. All these monuments and memorial sites are protected, both strengthening the responsibility of the state and local government for their protection and using revised international treaties. I am therefore strongly against this bill and call for its rejection. Thank you for your attention, gentlemen. ( The transcripts were: “There was no attention! ” ; “Thank you very much... “ The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer. ”
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U29	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U30	Hello, colleagues! I mean, we don't talk much, but we do it! I support it and - let's go! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U31	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U32	Hello, Latvian society! I will vote in favour, but I want to explain my vote not only to the public but also to my constituents. I have voters: both Latvians and Latvian families who were expelled, as well as Latvian citizens - Russian-speaking Jews, who were rescued during the Second World War, and Russians - Latvian citizens. I will vote in favour because it is linked to my nationality. However, it is essential to highlight the following: We need to say fairly today from the tribunal: we are voting for the dismantling of the monument, which will start tomorrow at 8 a.m., or we are voting for the dismantling of the monument, which will be the same epic as the elimination of the OIC, which is not going to happen in this Saeima. And a fair answer must be given to the general public, to all those who listen to this transmission from the Saeima House: the destruction of this monument will not happen in this Parliament and in this term, so let us not deceive ourselves and our constituents. Demolition of the monument in the current political climate serves only as a campaign of pre-election of every political force, and this is the most honest response today from the parliamentary tribunal. This vote has nothing to do with the fact of dismantling or the fact that the monument remains. It has nothing to do with elections. Those who have raised this issue will not embarrass this monument. Everyone will have received attention and after the elections will look for an idiot who will execute this decision. And more. This situation can be seen in the face of urtrapathy and can be seen in real politics. Real-politically, this is a step today, not in 30 years... failing to act tomorrow at 8 a.m., impairs security in Latvia. This is demonstrated by the fact that Latvia's security and home system are not able to cope with much smaller shocks. What do I mean by that? The concept is to strengthen loyalty in the workings of the Latvian home system, the vast majority of which are not loyal to the Republic of Latvia, but speak loudly about it. The concept is to improve the remuneration system and carry out appropriate reforms. The concept - the biggest and most important - is to invest in education: both Latvian and Russian children here in Latvia. The concept is to work on convincing the public about who is an aggressor state. But it makes no sense to make a decision that will not be executed tomorrow 8 a.m. I will vote in favour. I mentioned that it was about my nationality. As a Latvian, I have a story, and this story is related to childhood memories. I spent my childhood on Kuldīga's side, at Birzgali's home. There was such a huge barn in this house... A huge house, where there was a secret space in the middle, where it was possible to get from a househouse, from a walltop, and which could not be seen from the outside. There were people hiding in this room, not to send them out. These were the people I called an eyebrow and a tant that was my opis and my grandmother. They were hiding from the occupation regime. And that's why I have to vote in favour as a Latvian today. As a politician who has spoken about the unification of society, I have to talk from this platform about what would unite society to make Latvia safer, richer and richer. As a Latvian who has traveled around the world, I have to tell the public that a country without prosperity, a country where there is poverty, a country where pits are at the entrance door of the Ministry of Transport... everything is covered with flags, monuments, monuments and something that has nothing to do with people's better lives and a better future... I would be much more willing to vote today for the fact that we make Latvia's education system the most competitive in the world. I would be more willing to vote today for the fact that we are fulfilling the promises of medical practitioners to be paid, that we are not lying to voters and finally abolishing the OIC at a time when everything is becoming more expensive and more expensive. I would deal with the heating crisis today. This is much more important for our society. Today, I also have to say a second part of this platform. The people I met in my life, and this story moved me. I want to tell you that, too, from this pub. ( Insight: “We are voting for it! ” ; methacrylics.) A year ago I sat at the table with an elderly, old-fashioned person, a Latvian citizen, around 65, he is of Jewish origin (Intersor.) and with tears in his eyes he told me about Latvia. He talked about the Soviet Union. He said that he was born, raised in Latvia. He told me how he beats the red and white flags at national festivals. He said that he would never want to return to the Soviet Union and would never want to be living under the flag of another state, despite having held good positions in the Soviet Union. He wanted to live in a free country. There was one nuance that you can laugh about, but which still needs to be taken into account and which is essential. And this nuance is that he said with tears in his eyes: “If there weren’t them, my family would be stunned in gas chambers.” For some these people have done good and for others they have done bad; and this is a very difficult situation. It's not clear. I've heard similar stories. I defended 300 people who suffered a great disaster in Latvia and who are Latvian patriots and who told similar stories. Today, from this platform, it is essential in this full climate of hatred, which is in Latvia and is deliberately provoked to... Unfortunately, I have to say this from the tribunal: let there be war here one day. Someone with common sense must come and stand up, and I must say, dear people, come on, there can be nothing with hatred! Hate doesn't become richer, richer, living in prosperity. Only by merging, only by talking, only by learning... And where there is wealth (I apologise for vulgarity), there are monuments and dates near one place. There's tennis training and golf games... where there is wealth and prosperity. I want to live in Latvia where after the Saeima sitting not only Members but also sellers can play golf or tennis. That is why I have spoken all these years as I have spoken from this tribunal, and I have tried to unify rather than divide our society. This decision today is only a populist slogan for the elections, which will not have to be fulfilled. As at the dates declared the time of commemoration of the victims of the Ukrainian war, our country's highest officials - Kariņš, Bordāns, Golubeva and Reirs - did not find themselves in Latvia, namely, Bordāns was located in Canada and Spain on these dates when the Ukrainian war was to be commemorated...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U33	Thank you. Now, there's no more on the subject.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U34	... Canada and the United States.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U35	Then the name to the Member, Lubov Svekov. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U36	Two more things...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U37	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. You didn't talk about the subject. ( Milestones.) Colleagues, we will finish the work on this draft law and then go on a break. Mrs. Svekov, please! ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U38	The war is hatred. The war with memory places is the inciting of hatred. The war with memories is also a incitement to hatred. ( Interface: “The celebration of the occupation is an uproar of hatred! ” ) I regret to say that the political elite in Latvia is double and false. The same New Conservative Party, its most prominent representatives, are allowed to cooperate and receive money from organised crime groups in Russia. The experts report that they meet with representatives of crime organized by Russia in Lithuania (Internext.) , and now they propose the demolishing of the monument. Development/About! representatives do not hesitate to receive funding for the arrangement of Latvian citizenship for certain Russian oligarchs. ( Milestones.) It is very beautifully silent about it and forget about it, now starting to fight with memories. The leader of the new Unity permits to sell Pionieri to Russian Gazprom-related oligarch.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U39	Mrs. Svekov, please talk about the bill. Mrs Svelova, I am asking you to speak about the specific draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U40	I will vote against this draft law. I will not support the dual, treasoning conduct of the political elite. I believe that if you sow hatred, you can only get the bitter effects of its fruit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U41	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U42	I couldn't have responded to them... basically the injustice that we were told that this vote on this bill would be a division of society. Do you know what the division of society is? The division of society is that this monument was built there at all. That was the aim of disintegrating the company. This was the goal of implementing this gentle power already during the Soviet Union in Pārdaugava. You know that Riga is divided by the Daugava. On one side there is a monument to Freedom, and on the other side there is this - the occupation pillar. These are polarising elements. They're like two poles of the earth. So, of course, patriots go to the Freedom Monument, and those who are against Latvia as an independent country go to this occupation room. Please tell me, is this not a division of society? In my opinion, this is exactly the same division of society as when hydrogen and hydrogen are broken down into hydrolysis. I call for support. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U43	The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U44	Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! Hello! At the moment we are talking about a draft law that is, in fact, once again designed for one purpose and directed against one object, and that is this monument in Pārdaugava. Have you experienced in your practice a situation where an object built in private ownership that has not been put into service or is not registered in the Land Register is legalised in any way? At the moment, after existing building regulations, it should be dismantled. Colleagues, when opening kadastrs.lv, which we can do, and by entering the cadastral number on which this building is located - 01 000 492 043, appear in an area of 2,89 hectares. Read more - division of the plot of land by use. Objects under water - one hectare. Other land area - 1.79. Go on. Look at the burdens. We do not see any burdens, because usually these documents show if there is a building. Unfortunately, there is no construction right now. It doesn't exist. Consequently, anything on the ground is illegal construction. It could be resolved long ago, because the Cabinet of Ministers Regulations No. 500 is provided for in Chapter XV (Interior: which chapter? Fifteen?’ )... I understand that some Members will have to go to the medical examination definitely... ‘Complete or dismantlement of a structure which has been completely or partially destroyed, dangerous or damaging to the landscape’... That hindered the Cabinet of Ministers, as in the case of the border, to ask the State Building Control Office to resolve this issue with both a construction permit and to do all works so that Mr. Staķis does not have to say that now that exercise will be 13 months. This does not need to be done in 13 months if there is political will and there are practitioners who want to do so, and it can be done very quickly. I call on colleagues to vote in favour of this draft law, although it is purely declaratory. In my opinion, we are not really saying anything about this, we are only demonstrating that for years the state can ignore its laws (the Construction Law, regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers laying down general building regulations) and we continue to pretend that we are politically correct. And every pre-election... we confuse or try to hold these monuments. Colleagues, if we want to be truly a country, then read the laws and follow them! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U45	The name of Member Eric Pucen.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U46	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Hello, colleagues! We see that this monument is being demolished not only by this Saeima; it has also been addressed by the previous Saeima. However, political will has always been lacking. The national association has always stood for the demolition of this monument. But the question arises: if this Saeima takes this decision and the monument will now be dismantled, what will the National Union do after the next Saeima elections? Will they reform and find another thing to stand up for? The elections are coming, they are close, and every politician wants to shine. I have always been in favour of removing this monument. And I call on politicians, however, to be so courageous and to vote rather than change their opinion before responsible votes. If we, the Saeima, vote for the demolishment of the monument, will it be demolished at all? It is also a question because it has not been once that we have voted too much in the Saeima, but that decisions are not being implemented. I hope that this monument will be demolished until the next parliamentary elections. And if that happens, then you Members will be entitled to stand for the next Saeima. But if this is not the case, everyone must take their responsibility and assess whether you are responsible and ready to stand for the next Saeima at all. A little history. In Kuldiga municipality there was also such a symbol, a military symbol. It was in Skrunda, 117 feet [117 m] long. And there was no need to fight for a decision. On this military symbol - Skrunda Ringor - was able to make a decision quickly, and on 4 May 1995 it was dismantled. ( Internouncing call.) And where did Skrund's archer come? It was scrapped, and it was at the foundation of the farm. I hope that soon, too, this torture stake will end up right there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U47	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U48	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, On May 8, this year, I and my colleagues (Interface: “With whom?” ) LETTER I put flowers at Brethren Cemetery in Latvia, at Mother Latvia, and again - again! - I saw how great Karls Hall was in the 1920s and 1930s, how wonderful he was to represent the Latvian soldiers. And now we can be proud of this memorial. We can also be proud of the monument to Freedom. And its memorial buildings were not disrupted by totalitarian Soviet power, because even the USSR... The hero... THE USSR had no opportunity and no courage to undermine people’s faith in freedom. If people are convinced, it is indissolubly unbreakable. Likewise, the Ukrainian people are currently fighting for their independence. We all voted in favour of Ukraine in this Saeima. And I would like to tell you that in Kijiva there is still a statue of Mother's, built in 1981, on the bank of the river Dniepra. It was built by the USSR for the victory of the Red Army - the release of Kijiva and Ukraine from the Hitlers. At that time (Interior call) on its statue, on its sculpture, was fitted with a Soviet coat of arms. Currently there are discussions in Ukraine about de-communisation, about the removal of these monuments from the cities, but this monument - Mother Ukraine, as it was now called, is something that nobody wants to demolish. Ukrainian television leads from Kiyiv broadcast about war, and in the background - in the background! - This sculpture is standing. In my opinion, the courage of politicians, the task of politicians, is not to discover new fronts, not to make people enemies, but to make them their allies neutral. I think that this vote is a political manifesto. I will vote 'no', but (Minimum.) I am not sure that the monument in Pārdaugava is at risk in the near future. Thank you. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U49	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U50	I wanted to add... Only one component (interchanges.) ... You noticed I was off the microphone. ( Milestones.) I'm off the microphone for speaking the truth. The only Member who speaks truth from the tribunal. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U51	For the bill, please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U52	That's always what I always do! - turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U53	Please, for the bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U54	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U55	Thank you. I closed the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, the word is denied if the speaker does not speak on the subject. So the debate is closed. On behalf of the Commission, Member Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U56	Dear Members, thank you for the debate. On behalf of the Foreign Affairs Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U57	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the agreements signed by the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation in Moscow on 30 April 1994” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 70 (Applause) No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U58	Dear colleagues, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I call on the Saeima to immediately examine the draft law at second, final, reading. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U59	Whether Members have objections to the second, final reading of the draft law (Inter-referencing) without re-examination by the committee responsible? Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U60	The deadline for tabling proposals for second reading is five minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U61	So the deadline for proposals is 12 May this year, by 11.01 p.m. And consideration of the Saeima sitting? ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U62	The Saeima is sitting today.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U63	Review at the Saeima sitting on 12 May this year. Thank you. Dear colleagues, it is time for a break. Please call me! Please register the presence of Members! The name is Richard Cole, for the announcement.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U64	Dear Members of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, We will start the Foreign Affairs Commission meeting in Colonel 11.05. Please do not hesitate to attend the Foreign Affairs Commission's meeting room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U65	The name Viktor Valaini is a statement about the success of the Saeima in basketball.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U66	Dear colleagues, Last week the Latvian Saeima basketball team won the honorable third place in the Baltic Assembly basketball tournament. (Applause) Thank you to all the participants.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U67	Thank you. Colleagues, I call... Another moment's silence! Colleagues! There is another statement. ( Milestones.) Dear colleagues and respected colleagues! Five... The first statement, and there will be a second. Five minutes later - Fraction Council meeting in the Red Hall. And another statement. I think this is a symbolic moment when we separate from our past and separate from the past's remains in our consciousness, thinking. I hope that we will adopt all the draft laws necessary for this to happen. On Monday we had a meeting with Vice-President Olena Kondratjuka of the Ukrainian Parliament, and her gift to Latvia was simply wonderful. I want to show it to all of you too. It is the famous stamp of the Russian warship; it is already a rare occurrence everywhere in the world. There will be an opportunity to come and look closer to the voting room. ( Internoint.) Thank you very much. And now the name for Inese Voika to communicate the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U68	Colleagues! Not registered: Aldis Blumbergs, Boriss Cilevičs, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, Janīna Jalinskas, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Ieva Krapāne, Atis Lejiņš, Romanas Naudiņš and Atis Zakaitistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U69	Interrupt - 30 minutes - by 11.30 a.m. Thirty minutes! The next long break - at the usual time. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U70	Dear colleagues, I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room. We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. Dear colleagues, The hour break is scheduled at 12.30 p.m. to 13.30 p.m. We will continue to discuss the agenda for the sitting of the Saeima. On the agenda - reports from the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Council of the Saeima proposes to refer the draft law “Amendment to the law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the elimination of double taxation and tax evasion in respect of taxes on income and capital and its Protocol” to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ ) There are objections. Please call me! We will vote for the transfer of the draft law “Amendment to the law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the Prevention of Double Taxation and Tax Non-payment of Income and Capital Taxes and its Protocol” to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 60, for - 18, for - 1. The decision has been taken - the draft law has been passed on to the commission. The Foreign Affairs Commission has requested that the draft law drawn up by the Foreign Affairs Commission be examined immediately. Are Members against the fact that we are carrying out an examination of the draft law at once, right now? ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ ) Please call us! We will vote for the examination of the draft law “Amendment to the law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the Prevention of Double Taxation and Tax Non-payments in respect of Income and Capital Taxation and its Protocol”” by the Saeima on 12 May this year and to consider it as a second item on the agenda, namely, to consider it today! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -64, against -18, refrains - not. The Saeima has therefore decided to consider this draft law immediately. On the agenda, that is the draft law. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U71	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendment to the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the prevention of double taxation and tax evasion in respect of taxes on income and capital and its Protocol””. Before the first reading, on behalf of the Foreign Affairs Commission, I ask the Saeima to declare the draft law urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U72	Thank you. Members have not applied to speak about urgency. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the elimination of double taxation and tax evasion in respect of income and capital taxes and its Protocol”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 65, it's 18, it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U73	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, So we see the draft law “Amendment to the law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the elimination of double taxation and tax evasion in respect of taxes on income and capital and its Protocol””. In its meeting, the Foreign Affairs Commission agreed on the need to suspend the contract. This bilateral agreement - the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the prevention of double taxation and tax evasion in respect of income and capital taxes - aimed at promoting business activities between Latvia and Russia, as well as at attracting foreign investment in general, also in respect of the tax agreement... The amendment to the law is necessary to ensure the suspension of the agreement and its protocol in accordance with the requirements of Section 40, second paragraph of the law “On International Treaties of the Republic of Latvia”. In particular, given that the contract and its protocol have been approved by the Saeima by law, only the Saeima is entitled to suspend the agreement and its protocol by law. The contract in question has been in operation since 20 December 2010. The Saeima adopted it by law on 9 June 2011. In this case too... Similarly, as has been the case with the agreement that we have already talked about today (we supported the respective draft laws at first reading), the Latvian side has fulfilled its commitments in good faith and remains committed to act in accordance with the requirements of international law. But - Russia has attacked Ukraine! Based on the logic of international law, the Russian invasion in Ukraine is considered to be aggression, which Latvia has strongly condemned many times, as well as all crimes against humanity... and as a genocide. We are aware of our duty to acknowledge... and to prevent these crimes in order to ensure their non-repeatability. We must act against a state that violates its commitment to the international community as a whole, namely the Russian Federation. The international community, including Latvia, has a duty to cooperate as well as the right to take countermeasures to motivate Russia to stop the violations of international law committed and to fully compensate for the violations already committed. Consequently, in view of the assessment of the content of the Treaty and its Protocol and the possible legal action of the State in relation to the functioning of the Treaty and its Protocol at the meeting of the Foreign Affairs Commission of the Saeima on 6 May 2022, the Foreign Affairs Commission of the Saeima decided to suspend the operation of the Treaty and its Protocol until the termination of the violations of international law by the Russian Federation with regard to Ukraine, to withdraw its forces from the territory of Ukraine and to restore the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine in accordance with the requirements of international law and to compensate Ukraine for the violations committed by Ukraine. Colleagues! On behalf of the Foreign Affairs Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U74	Thank you. Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the Prevention of Double Taxation and Tax Non-payment of Taxes on Income and Capital Taxes and its Protocol” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 66, no, 18, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U75	On behalf of the Foreign Affairs Commission, I ask the Saeima to examine the draft law immediately at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U76	Are Members opposed to the examination of the draft law? ( Internouncing call.) So Members have reservations. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U77	Proposals for the second reading should be submitted in five minutes. The deadline for submission is five minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U78	And consideration of the Saeima sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U79	Review - Saeima at today's sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U80	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the consideration of the proposals - 12 May this year, by 11.46 p.m. - at the Saeima sitting - 12 May this year. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have received a letter from the Foreign Affairs Commission requesting to consider the draft law “Amendment to the treaties signed in Moscow on 30 April 1994 between the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation” after the draft law “Amendment to the treaty between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the prevention of double taxation and tax evasion in respect of income and capital taxes and its Protocol”. Do Members have objections? ( Internouncing call.) So Members have reservations. We should vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the treaties signed by the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation in Moscow on 30 April 1994”... so now to put it on the agenda of the sitting of the Saeima so that it can be decided immediately. Please call me! We will vote for the examination of the draft law “Amendment to the law “On the Agreements between the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation signed in Moscow on 30 April 1994” after the draft law “Amendment to the law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the Prevention of Double Taxation and Tax Non-payment in respect of Income and Capital Taxation and its Protocol””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 65, it's against - 17, it's not. So Members have decided to examine the draft law now. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Treaties of the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation signed in Moscow on 30 April 1994” at second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U81	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members, honourable Members, Foreign Affairs Commission for second reading (Interface.) no proposals were received. Before I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at second, final, reading, I would like, at least on behalf of the Foreign Affairs Commission, to thank Ugis Polim, the author of the MyaBalss.lv initiative. In 2019, the public initiative, which was transferred to the Saeima, saw the call to the Saeima to address the issue of the dismantling, displacement of... Addressing the issue... Thank you for this initiative and I hope that, with the vote of the Saeima in the second, final reading, the Saeima will have fulfilled its role. On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U82	Thank you. Colleagues, no proposal was made for this draft law. And Members have not applied in the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the agreements signed by the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation in Moscow on 30 April 1994” in the second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, (Applause) The law is passed. Thank you. Dear colleagues, Members Rubik, Clementyev, Agešin, Tutin, Ribakov and others have tabled a proposal - to read the vote of each Member after supporting this draft law at second reading. This proposal - to read each Member's vote - can be 'yes', one 'no'. Mr. Gobzem, will you talk about it or 'no'? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Gobzem: 'I will talk about the proposal'. ) So “for” has applied to speak to Aldis Gobzems. ( Impression: Who proposed it at all?) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U83	I would like all the votes to be taken. I'll explain myself, too. I did not vote, because my voting machine always beats the nails (Interface.) , and we need to make it.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U84	Okay, colleagues. So there is no objection. I ask for the results of the vote (Interface: Do not read!) )... Don't you? So there are objections. So we will vote because there are both 'yes' and 'no'. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of each Member voting on the bill (interim: “Do not read!” “To whom is it important?” “Let it read!” ; other intermediates.) “Amendment to the law “On the Treaties of the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation signed in Moscow on 30 April 1994”! ( Milestones.) Please vote mode! ( Milestones.) Please get the result! For - 54, for - 5, for - 1. Well, here's the question, colleagues. The results of the vote are read by Inese Voika. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U85	Dear colleagues, Thus, the vote on the draft law “Amendment to the treaties signed by the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation in Moscow on 30 April 1994” (No. 1466/Lp13), second reading, urgent. The following vote has been taken by 68 members: Aldis Adamovičs, Ieva Akuratere, Arvils Ašeradens, Uldis Augulis, Ainars Bauķis, Krista Baumane, Dagmarā Beitnere-Le Galla, Iveta Benhen-Beeken, Raimonds Bergmanis, Aigars Bikše, Mārtiņš Bondars, Uldis Budrikis, Jānis Butāns, Jānis Cielēns, Anda Chaksa, Gundars Many, Jānis Dombrava, Jānis Dūklavs, Ilmars Dūris, Raivis Dzintars, Krišjānis Feldmanis, Aivars Geidāns, Kaspars Girgen, Jānis Izalnieks, Ilze Indze Indriča, Ritvars Jansons, Andrejs Jumiņš Kumiņš, Rihards, Rihards Kozlovskis, Izadzie-Bazvis, Jurjie-Fiss-Fiss-Fie, Lube-Fie-Fie-Fie-Fisssss-Fissssss-Fiede, Jurjie-Fissssssssssssssss-ji, Juvye-Fie, Jujie-jie-Fisssssssssssssssssse, Bioee, Jujieeeeeeeeeeeeeee, Bioeeeeee, Bioeeeeeee, Bioee, Bioeeeeee, Bioeeeeeee, Bioeee, Bioeeeee, Bioe, Bioeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee ‘ 18 members voted against: Valery Agešin, Sergey Dolgopolov (interim: Ūū!) ), Nikolai Kabanov, Andrejs Klementyevs, Ivans Klementyevs, Jānis Krišāns, Edgars Kucins, Regina Lochmele, Vladimirs Nikonovs, Vitalijs Orlovs, Igors Pimenovs, Ivans Ribakovs, Arthurs Rubiks, Jūlija Stepanenko, Lubova Švecova, Zenta Tretjaka, Jānis Tutins and Jānis Urbanovičs. Three Members did not vote: Aldis Gobzems, Inga Goldberga and Karina Sprūde. Thank you. ( Interface: “Ai-ai... “)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U86	Thank you. Colleagues, let's continue to look at it (Interface.) agenda of the sitting On the agenda - reports from the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the Member Viktoras Valaiņa, Ulda Augulis, Armands Krauze, Edgars Tatars and Janina Jalinska's draft law "Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax" be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U87	President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, After the coalition's repeated rejection of the offer to reduce value added tax on food, we are, however, re-submitting this issue at the moment and want to update it. We see that the farmers' organisations we meet are already predicting that food prices will not only rise by 50 per cent, they will increase by more than 50 per cent, in certain areas - even double, and all this will happen this year. Colleagues, in our view, the government has not demonstrated at this point... without exceptions, but ministers who have spoken on this subject... However, the government's common position does not currently indicate that they are ready to support a reduction in value added tax on food. We have already mentioned earlier that such an approach to fruit and vegetables (specific to Latvia) has proved itself in the budget figures. There are scientific publications that, on the contrary, this gives a greater contribution to the budget by reducing the shadow economy by increasing the consumption of local products. At the moment, as far as food prices are concerned, we do not hear clear arguments as to why this should not be done at the moment, quite the contrary. We have consulted a number of experts who point out that this option would help precisely those with lower incomes to reduce food basket prices. Colleagues, we have talked a lot about this. I call for this draft law to be passed on to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission as the commission responsible, to start a debate on it in the Saeima, because obviously it is not a priority for the government. Maybe we're going to start moving this issue in the Saeima. Maybe there will be a result. Thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U88	Mr. John Dombrava has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U89	Dear Members of the Saeima! Yes, these discussions have begun in the government, but I would like to talk about one other aspect. I do not know, perhaps I have technical problems - I do not see an annotation for a whole series of draft laws presented today. Section 85, fifth part of the parliamentary roll states: “If a draft law is submitted by the President of the State, the Saeima Commission or not less than five Members, the committee responsible shall, in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Bureau, complete an annotation of the draft law, including the applicant’s answers to the following questions: (1) why the law is necessary...; (3) what effect the law may have on the state budget and municipal budgets...” and similar. Given that this draft law has a very significant impact on the state budget, it would, however, be requested - already at the time when the draft law was submitted by the applicants - that an annotation appears. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U90	Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax (No. 1447/Lp13) transfer to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, making it a responsible commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that Member Viktoras Valaiņa, Ulda Augulis, Armands Krauze, Edgars Tatars and Janina Yalinska refer the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Conformity Assessment” to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U91	Colleagues, this draft law, too, has no annotation. I really hope that Members are able to read the draft law and understand, in substance, what we want to change and what the draft law is about, but in the future we can also add an annotation if there is such a need and if that is the main reason why these draft laws are not being supported. I am sorry, yes, we will also add a more balanced annotation in the future. But on this issue, colleagues... Going to the Tribine... I understand that Members are already tired of this debate, and yet... I really thank you all very much, because it was not two months for you to listen and the government to take some decision on this issue - with regard to biofuels. Colleagues, however, I have to remind you how this road has gone. We have already called for this from March. In our view, it did not have to come into force from 1 April, but we are already paying for this addition: in petrol tanks, the price of fuel is close to two euros. I hope a little... that, in the second half of the summer, this decision taken by the government will enter into force and will be supported. Here I have to remind you how this debate took place. At our first call for this to be done, we heard the heads of government, the leaders of the coalition... public, so to say, frightened by the fact that... I'll quote... that so we do not live in the fact that we will then have to pay millions, millions of fines. That was the first message from the government when we came to this request. The next message from the government was much more specific: if we take such a decision, 17 million gardens will have to pay. 17 million was already a specific number. But nothing, we continued, continued to raise this issue, and in the end these arguments ended up - why this issue cannot be supported and why this approach cannot be implemented. Now, I'm calling... To make this all happen faster, however, it must be understood that the price of fuel... 50 per cent, almost 50 per cent... impact on direct taxation. Whatever the situation is, after the removal of the bio-acquisition, we will also have to deal with tax policy. At the moment, too, government representatives are continuing to deceive the public that we must not reduce taxes, because this will increase the purchase of fuel from Russia. Those suppliers that supply diesel fuel in Latvia have already abandoned their transactions with Russia. Since the argument that we should not reduce this price with tax policy is no longer a matter of criticism. Colleagues, thank you for your attention. Vote by your conscience on this matter. I very much hope that this will be assumed more quickly, that we will not delay again and will not delay the current deadline when traders have already bought this bio-acquisition. Therefore, colleagues, we are voting for our conscience! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U92	Mr. Aldis Gobzems has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U93	I would particularly like to appeal to Mr Valaiņa and say that Mr Valaiņa's proposal is not acceptable and must be rejected, because we have already accepted... We have already made all our historical decisions, there is nothing to be done about people. In Latvia, pay for the fuel... as much as necessary as fuel will be paid - EUR 2,250 or EUR 3, it is not important. We already have the richest people, they can afford to pay. Nor is it important to worry about VAT. Better to have the highest VAT for everything you need, so... Mr. Valaiņš, you have not understood the narrative of the ruling power as it is. When courageous decisions are made, people do not have to be cared for, so the material well - being of people themselves, education, and everything else is not important. The key is just bold decisions. That is what I wanted to remind you a bit ironically.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U94	Colleagues, one Member has spoken about, one against. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Conformity Assessment”, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Civil Procedure” submitted by the Legal Commission be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Criminal Procedure Law” submitted by the Legal Commission be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that Member Viktoras Valaiņa, Ulda Augulis, Didžas Šmita, Jānis Dūklavs and Janina Yalinska refer the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Natural Resources Tax” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Interface: “Let’s vote! ” ) Please call... So “for” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U95	Dear colleagues, I'll call for a moment's attention. This is, in my opinion, a rather important issue and Parliament should pay particular attention to it. It's a question of peat. This bill and the next one are the drafts of the package, which would be the first steps to ensure that in Latvia we use peat more as a fuel resource mainly in the heating of cities... in the heat of... which, in my opinion, is a particularly important issue at the moment. There are 0.4 percent of world peat reserves in Latvia. The peat bog area covers about 641 thousand hectares, which is 10 percent of the territory of Latvia. The development of peat bogs in Latvia takes place only 4 per cent of the total territory of these peat bogs. If we look at what is happening in nature, we see that fuel peat is being developed in Latvia; it is not that it is not, but at the moment it is just a few boilers in Latvia, where peat is currently being built, so to speak, for energy needs. Peat is often used to ensure the heat treatment process. In this way too, peat can be used, but it happens in small amounts. At one time peat was one of the main resources with which heat was obtained in Latvia, so to speak. At this point in time, our common government policy is moving in the very opposite direction. We have various challenges to get both liquefied gas and others... Well, that's all one thing... one goal is to get raw materials for heat, but peat as such... No one even looks in that direction. And I think that is a huge problem. If we are sending third-level officials to negotiations with the Directorates-General, this is not right in my view. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Gobzem: “Of course.” ) Currently peat is actively used... from such big boilers... In Jelgava. In Jelgava, mix peat in quite large amounts, there are all filtering systems to do so. The draft law that we are proposing is to provide that peat is comparable to fibre in terms of emissions payments, and that we at least compare it and put it in the same conditions at the moment. At the same time, thereby making peat as cost-effective as possible for economic operators to use it more in heating. Therefore, colleagues, I call on you to support this draft law, to launch a debate in the Saeima and to raise this issue as high as possible on our political agenda. This, in my view, is not being done at a sufficient level right now. Both Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Latvian Employers' Confederation have started to discuss these issues. These issues are also discussed in the Tripartite Cooperation Council, but at ministerial level, to meet with Brussels officials to defend Latvia's national position on these issues, we are sending officials - unlike Poland, who take these issues quite seriously and have already defended their coals at a rather high level. I call for support for this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U96	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Natural Resources Tax” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 35, for - 44, for - 3. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that Member Viktoras Valaiņa, Ulda Augulis, Didžas Šmita, Janis Dūklavs and Janina Yalinska refer the draft law “Amendments to the Energy Law” to the National, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U97	Colleagues, with this draft law, we want to achieve... In my opinion, it will be too late to talk about peat in the autumn. It will be too late to speak in the autumn, because to get an energy peat, it needs to be obtained today. Political decisions must be taken today. Today's government document... If we look at this, we can see that there is a great deal of support in the government at the moment: the adjustment of the programmes for the heathen. The baby is not the resource to which the heat can be adjusted today if we want to change the transition from gas to the slice. We all know what chip prices are now, how they are rising. If a municipality currently uses these government support instruments for peat, they will not be able to adapt this technology. There are no aid instruments available for this. But if we change these amendments by making it clear in the Energy Law that peat is a slow renewable resource, we would give it this opportunity. It is a national decision that needs to be made. If we look at the situation before 24 February, when Russia started the war in Ukraine, it was completely different. I would not stand today in this tribunal and would not defend the peat industry. But today, when we need to think about our energy independence, we need to be prepared and we need to have our vision of how we make the most of local resources. At the moment, energy peat... energy peat is practically not obtained in Latvia... very small amounts against the production of garden peat. If we do not send out a clear signal today to the industry that it is necessary to start producing peat to be used for heating in the autumn, it will not. There will be no justification for the industry to do so. We are only at some stage of the debate. We need to make it clear to the peat industry that today we are looking at this area quite differently. We see that the question of Russian gas... We have already made all our own decisions. Where is that alternative? With regard to fuel peat, the Latvian Government has not given any signal. There's no position. On the contrary, now it's imposed... 80-90 million euros are being placed in the reconstruction fund... It is offered to Latvia to simply close the peat area without considering that its scope will be transferred directly to the Latvian budget in taxes of 20-30 million per year. The question is put on the table. I call on the Saeima to engage in this matter and, in essence, in the decision. - express their position, and give green light both for the use of peat in energy and adopt a regulatory framework so that municipalities can adapt their own boilers already today so that they can use peat as much as possible in the autumn. Here we offer that... currently allowed is 10 per cent, we offer to change regulation to 30 per cent. 30 percent would be sufficient. Currently in Jelgava Fortum... Gren... 30 percent of this station is what... Use peat. And there's no problem. We continue to talk about the impact of peat on climate change. This position has not changed at national level. At national level, we are still running on this issue after Europe's green course. This is the place where we have to tell the green course - no, here we think differently. Ireland has said so. Ireland is defending its industry and has overruled all the deadlines. Our neighbours, who are obtaining peat, are also taking these issues very seriously and are going to change their approach. I also call on us, at least at national level, despite the changes in European regulation, to start today the changes that we can make at home without coordinating with the European Commission. I call for this to be done. I call for support for this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U98	Mr. Aldis Gobzems has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U99	It's nothing. The main thing in the field of energy, which should be done by Latvia this summer - and that would be in the interest of all people, the whole of society, just like some time ago when Latvia actually refused to export logs - should be denied... impose an embargo, deny the removal of the slice. With a slice you can heat the whole of Latvia. Before the Second World War, no one in Latvia was gathered, able to live peacefully. There are so many chips in Latvia that most of them are exported to Scandinavia in the interests of some people, but in the interests of the whole society the chips should be left in Latvia in these circumstances. We would actually solve a very large part of the energy crisis. The issue that I have spoken about before at the parliamentary tribunal, which we cannot, of course, resolve in this short time, but is another HES that should be discussed. And the third thing... I did not forget, by the way, I did not forget, nor do I mention this earlier: we have the Dobele gas storage, and somehow we have a much smaller gas problem for Lithuania, which does not have such a gas storage, is much smaller in Estonia, but for us who have a gas storage (it is, in fact, stronger than Incukalns) there are the biggest problems in the region. These are things that should be developed now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U100	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Energy Law” to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 35, for - 45, for - 3. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the member Alda Gobzema, Karina Sprūde, Julia Stepanenko, Māra Možvillo and Ērika Pucena hand over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks” to the National, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, which states that it is the responsible commission. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Aldis Gobzems.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U101	So my proposal is to ban alcohol sales on Sundays. The reason for this is very simple – there are huge problems of alcoholism in Latvia, there are many drunken people, also in the Saeima, among others. ( Insight: “The Saeima also has... “ There is no place in our shops in civilized world, on any continent, by the way, there is no way that alcoholic beverages are traded between fashion products in a wide range. ‘ Galleria Riga is a very good example here near the Saeima. The purchase of alcoholic beverages on Sundays is only necessary for degeneratives. There are a huge number of drunken men in our society. A huge number of domestic violence due to alcohol consumption. We have a huge number... uneducated societies thanks to alcoholism in Latvia. A huge number of deaths due to alcoholism in Latvia. Alcoholism is the greatest disaster in Latvia in the last 30 years – behind the Saeima. In no civilised country - a developed, prosperous, prosperous country - on Sundays does not deal with alcohol trafficking, but with golf, tennis and travel planning to Tanzania. Latvia is a country where sorrow, poverty and inability are drowned into alcohol, and when those gentlemen have drunk up, they “put the sorrow under a stone and passed through singing” - to the penny. And that's why we should change our thinking, show an example, don't be afraid of this thing, that you can't buy alcoholic beverages on Sundays. That would be right, and society should do so, and Members of the Saeima, even in this Saeima, should have an example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U102	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Interface: “Let’s vote! ” ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks”, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 27, for - 47, for - 5. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “On the World Postal Convention and its Final Protocol” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law on Registration of Civil Status Acts” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( The drug is noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes the draft law “Amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Support Law” presented by Member Jūlia Stepanenko, Lubova Švekova, Karina Sprūde, Māra Možvillo and Ramona Petravičas (No. 1460/Lp13) transferred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the Commission responsible. ‘ Ramona Petraviča, a Member, has applied to speak about’.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U103	President of the sitting. Dear colleagues, We have submitted a draft law “Amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Support Law”, adding a new paragraph to Article 3, stating that Ukrainian civilians who have obtained a long-term visa with the right to employment declare their place of residence in the Republic of Latvia on the same terms as those who have obtained a residence permit, because currently those civilians who have a biometric passport and who have received visas are at a disadvantage compared to those who have a residence permit – visa recipients cannot carry out different activities where a residence declaration is required. For example, I myself am a mentor for a large family. They've come here with their car that's broken. They can buy a new car here, but they can't pass the right here, because they need their declared place of residence to settle their driver's rights, but because they have biometric passports and visas, they can't and can't declare their place of residence here. So please support and make such basic changes to make life easier for these people, so that they can take their driving licence here and use their vehicles. I do not understand why there would be any reason not to do so, why put people in such a situation, cause them difficulties, even if they do not allow them to move by car. Please support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U104	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Please call us! Vote on the draft law “Amendments to the law on civilian support for Ukraine” (No. 1460/Lp13) transfer to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, determining that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Value Added Tax” presented by Member Vital Orlov, Andrejs Klementyeva, Jānis Krišāns, Valeria Agešina and Regina Ločmele (No. 1461/Lp13) transferred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Vitaly Orlov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U105	Hello, honorable Bureau! Dear Members, The SDP's "Conciliation" group once again tabled a legislative proposal to reduce value added tax on medicinal products for reimbursement. We have already heard the Ministry of Health, they have started a discussion with the Ministry of Finance. As Mrs Kaupers, Head of the Department of Pharmaceuticals, reported to us at the Commission for Social and Labour, the Ministry of Health is waiting for an answer from the Ministry of Finance on what the fiscal impact will be if all medicines have a reduction of up to five percent. Why reduce VAT on medicines? Firstly, we all believe that Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia have a single economic market and it would be logical if we reduced VAT to the Lithuanian level, that is, five percent. Estonia has nine percent. Secondly, reimbursement of medicinal products in whole or in part is paid by the State, which means that the reduction in VAT will actually reduce the prices of medicinal products. I do not know how food prices are formed, but for medicines it is a strictly regulated sector of the state, its procedure is described in the Cabinet of Ministers Regulations No. 899. There are 700 thousand unique patients in Latvia who are taking compensated medicines. This means that out of every five inhabitants of Latvia, two are customers of the compensation system. I think here in the hall, at least each other also takes some compensatory medicine. In this term, the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs received a letter from the Latvian Pensioners Federation with a request to improve the availability of medicines. Our proposed wording is one of the mechanisms for achieving this. Please support the bill and start a discussion at the Saeima. You see that when we presented the bill, we did not record when it came into force. Consequently, when the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance agree and we find a mechanism to achieve this, the law will come into force. Request to support this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U106	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Internouncing call.) Please call me! Vote on the draft law on the amendment to the Law on Value Added Tax (No. 1461/Lp13) transfer to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, making it a responsible commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the Member Raivja Dzintars, Ritvars Jansons, Ilze Indriksones, Jānis Iesalnieks, Edvins Šnores and other draft laws presented "Amendments to the Law on Education" be referred to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Mr. Ritvars Jansons, a Member, has applied for the floor.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U107	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The transition to state language learning has been taking place in Latvian schools since 2004, introducing a model of linguistic education and gradually increasing the percentage of Latvian use at all levels of education. This approach is a uniting element of Latvian society and ensures equal opportunities for every child of Latvia to get quality education. On 2 April 2018, amendments to the Education Law and the General Education Law came into force, which introduced a gradual transition to state language training in state, municipal and private general education institutions in primary and secondary education. It has successfully completed 2021./2022. during the school year, providing the study process in Latvian in primary schools in the amount of 50 to 80 percent, and in secondary schools in full, maintaining the possibility for pupils of national minorities to learn minority language, literature and cultural and historical subjects in their mother tongue. Centralised exams for grades 9 and 12 are currently held only in Latvian. The abovementioned phase-in period for public-language training at state, municipal and private general education institutions has successfully ended 2021./2022. the school year. We encourage the next step in the implementation of this process and ensure that minority education programmes from Class 1 to Class 9 learn the content in the state language of not less than 100 per cent of the total training hours per year, including foreign languages, thus concluding the gradual transitions to the state language in primary and secondary education at state, municipal and private general education institutions in full. The National Association in the Saeima was previously accused of the fact that we want to start the transition to training only in the state language from 1st to 9th grade in an unreal time, therefore the draft law also provides that with joint efforts, the Cabinet of Ministers issues regulations for the implementation of the above-mentioned training before 1 July this year, by drawing up a plan for the implementation of the transition to education in the state language to the appropriate extent in all state and municipal funded educational institutions at primary education levels. Each new day proves that decisive steps need to be taken. Our proposed changes will encourage students to belong to the Latvian state, which is impossible without the knowledge of the state language. The state language in the study process also helps to understand both the fundamental values contained in the preamble to the Satversme and the cultural heritage of Latvia collected for centuries.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U108	Thank you. ‘ Against” applied to speak by Member Edgars Kucins.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U109	Hello, colleagues! It seems that, as the elections approach, to please one single electoral group, some of us are once again going to work hard and hasty to adopt amendments to the Education Law - amendments that concern very serious issues of educational content. We are once again offering to run ahead of the horse, despite the fact that the education system is not now ready for new reforms. I will mention just one argument today, which shows that the proposed amendments are hasty and unthought-out. “ For 30 years... haste!’ ) At a time when more than 1,300 educators are lacking in schools, including minority schools, who can respond to the question: Where will we take educators to make the changes you intend to make? Or are you not interested in that at all? It is important to declare loudly that schooling should only take place in the state language, but that it is not your concern as to how to implement it in life. For that, either the school directors or the local authorities broke their heads. And if anything, do not forget that they are also voters and will not be very grateful for such gifts. Consider whether you will have provided yourself with a bear with these amendments. Colleagues, we all made a solemn oath when we took office as Members of the Saeima! - the people of Latvia, not one part of it, and when making decisions, we must always remember this. My colleagues from the SACCAN Group and I cannot support moving these amendments further until they are discussed with education professionals, with trade unions, but above all with pupils' parents... and until we see a concrete action plan for their implementation in life. Please vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U110	Thank you. One Member has spoken for, one against. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Support for Civil Population of Ukraine” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers (No. 1465 Lp13) transferred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Dear colleagues, it's time for a break. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name for Member Rihard Kola's statement.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U111	Dear Members of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, In 10 minutes, so at 12:45, we will hold the Foreign Affairs Commission sitting in the Foreign Affairs Commission. Be time for you to eat as well.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U112	Thank you. Name For Inese Voika to read the registration results.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U113	Colleagues! Not registered: Aldis Blumbergs, Boriss Cilevičs, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, Janīna Jalinska, Artuss Kaimiņš (Intersorbent.) ... The village is, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Ieva Krapāne, Atis Lejiņš and Romanas Naudiņš. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U114	Thank you. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U115	Honourable Members! We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. So, first of all, the amendments tabled to the Bureau's agenda. Members Viktors Valainis, Armands Krauze, Jānis Dūklavs, Uldis Augulis, Raimonds Bergmanis and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendment to the Ukrainian Civil Support Law” (No. 1470 Lp13)... it shall be forwarded to the commissions. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( Internouncing call.) Please call me! Vote on the draft law “Amendment to the law on civilian support for Ukraine” (No. 1470/Lp13) included on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 18, for - 35, for - 5. Draft legislation is not on the agenda of the sitting. The Legal Commission is asking to include the draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law” at first reading on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission is asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendment to the Criminal Procedure Law” at first reading. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Karina Sprūde, Aldis Gobzems, Eriks Pucens, Maris Možvillo and Julija Stepanenko are asked to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” (No. 1472/Lp13)... it shall be forwarded to the commissions. Do Members want to talk about inclusion on the agenda of the sitting? ‘ Karina Sprūde, Member, has applied to speak about”
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U116	Hello, honourable colleagues! Honorary Speaker of the Saeima! I think I'm going to talk about the Value Added Tax Act for the eighth time. And today I have a little thought again. I often come back after work at night to pick up children from groups, so the entrance to the store is too late. And there are always lines. I wonder if those people are working so late? Are the children in the evening collectives? But there are also young people without children, students and pensioners. Then I noticed that the most busy thing is around the shelves, where we put priced goods on the evenings, which will expire - salads, meat, sweets, semi-fabricated pancakes and all kinds of cooled commutettes, nails and the like. They all expire on that day, so the discount too. And there's the greatest human activity. What do I mean by that? People really have no money for normal, fresh food. The shelves are full, but can't afford. Prices are high, but what are the wages? In Salacgriva is looking for the staff of the Tourism Information Centre, the salary - 506 EUR gross. In Limbaži is looking for a museum tour guide, salary - 614 euros. In Rezekne region are looking for the organizers of cultural events, the salary is 650 euros. The librarian is looking for and promises to pay EUR 523 in gross terms. In Talsi municipality is looking for preschool teacher, the salary is less than 800 euros gross, i.e. before tax. In fact, children's schools... about €550 per hand... Is it surprising, then, that the greatest activity is for the priced goods? Yes, there are slightly higher wages in Riga. Social worker - EUR 920 gross. The zoo ticket cashier promises up to EUR 750 gross. Senior administration of the computer network - EUR 627, nurse - EUR 960. One woman I know is going to work from Salacgrīva to Pārdaugava for five years. It's a hundred miles. At current fuel prices, this is €25 every day. Work begins to be done to buy fuel and work. But what are the options? Bus and coach traffic has also remained so that it is difficult to leave, it is impossible to be able, and if it is successful, to travel for a long time. Four more hours should be taken away from family and children’s time. In regions, fuel is a means of subsistence for a car, not a luxury. I'm sad, mainly because we can help. In 2018, we were elected by people to represent them in order to create ways in which the country cares for them. When will the critical point be when we shout our conscience? The second story. In a veterinary clinic, I often hear people say that their dog or cat does not eat any food. Cassier always answers that no animal is dead at full bowl. And I have the feeling that the coalition is playing with these words at the moment, not as many times as it rejects the bill on reduced VAT. The coalition's mind is that people eat what's out of time, rottles with palm oil and semi-finished products. Bad will never die, but is it really what to wish your people? The cat will eat dry food, but not knots. ( Internouncing call.) Yes, we in Latvia alone will rarely be able to withstand the current difficult times. We are a strong nation, we have suffered a lot, and hopefully we have learned a lot. Although I am relatively young, I also remember well in the 1990s when it was a sugar burned on a gas stove as a sugar tree and a moistened sugar-sweetened bread. But have we really not learned to take care of our people, our people, in 30 years? I don't want children back in 2022 like they did in the early 1990s. I'm calling... I ask for support and inclusion of this bill on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U117	Do Members object to the inclusion of a draft law on the agenda of the sitting? ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Members wish to vote. Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax (No. 1472/Lp13) included on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 30, no one for - 47, no one. Draft law shall not be included on the agenda of the sitting. The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption is asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Support Law” to be included on the agenda of the sitting (No. 1465 Lp13)... and put it on the agenda before item 23 on the agenda - draft law on civil union. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There are no objections. The order of business has been amended. The Foreign Commission asks the draft law “Amendment to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the Prevention of Double Taxation and Tax Non-payment of Income and Capital Taxes and its Protocol” (No. 1467/Lp13) to be dealt with as the first question under the heading ‘Provision of draft laws’. Are there Members (Interface: Yes!) )... So there are objections. Please call me! We will vote for the amendment of the law “Amendment to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the elimination of double taxation and tax evasion in respect of taxes on income and capital and its Protocol” to be examined as the first question under the heading “Review of draft laws”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No. - 63, no. - 17, no. Decision adopted. Consequently, this draft law is dealt with as a first question under the heading ‘Provisions of draft laws’. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the Prevention of Double Taxation and Tax Non-payment of Taxes on Income and Capital Taxes and its Protocol””. Draft law is declared urgent, second reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U118	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The Foreign Affairs Commission saw draft law at second reading No. 1467/Lp13. No proposals were received for the second reading. On behalf of the Foreign Affairs Commission, I ask the Saeima to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U119	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the Prevention of Double Taxation and Tax Non-payment of Taxes on Income and Capital Taxes and its Protocol” at second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 64, no, 17, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Dear colleagues, Members Rubiks, Clementjevs, Agešins, Tutins, Ribakovs and others are asking to read the vote of each Member at second reading after this law has been examined. Do Members have objections? ( Interface: “Now it is.”) ) There are no objections. ( The box “Yes! ”) ) There are objections. Are there any objections? ( The paragraphs are: “Yes. ”) ; “Ir!” ) Please call us! We will vote for the amendment to the law “Amendment to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the elimination of double taxation and tax evasion in respect of taxes on income and capital and its Protocol” after the draft law... the vote of each Member is read! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 25, against - 52, refraining from - 1. The decision has therefore been made not to read this vote. The vote is open to all Members and all those interested on the Saeima's website. We are continuing with the examination of the draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Jānis Cielēns.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U120	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, At the meeting of the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission, on 10 May, the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax” (No. 1433 Lp13) at second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Three proposals from the commission responsible were received for the second reading. So it's 1. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Provision is made for that personal income tax shall not be applied to the employer’s employee’s child birth benefit of up to 250 euros for each child born in one birth if the benefit has been paid within six months of the date of birth of the child. The Commission shall be supported by a corresponding change in the numbering of the following articles.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U121	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U122	2. - also a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. It is foreseen that the birth benefit granted to an employer’s employee without personal income tax takes effect from 1 July 2022 and is applicable to the benefits paid for the birth of the child after 31 December 2021. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U123	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U124	Last, 3rd. - also a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. The law is foreseen to enter into force on the day following its publication. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U125	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U126	The draft law has been unanimously supported by the Commission. On behalf of the Commission, I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U127	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax” at second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Construction Law”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Gatis Zamurs.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U128	Hello, Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Construction Law” (No. 1424/Lp13) at second reading. We have received two proposals from the Commission. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U129	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U130	2. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's also editorial. The Commission has also been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U131	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U132	We have therefore examined all the proposals in this draft law. I ask the Saeima to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U133	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Construction Law” in the second, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the law on civilian support of Ukraine” (No. 1457/Lp13), second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U134	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! In the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, we have examined the draft law “Amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Support Law” (No. 1457/Lp13), second final reading. 25 proposals have been received. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The norm for the remuneration of the civilian population in Ukraine has been clarified. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U135	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U136	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Clarifying the regulation of housing remuneration. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U137	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U138	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported and included 4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U139	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U140	4. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. The particulars to be included in the aid application shall be specified. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U141	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U142	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U143	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U144	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partially supported, included 7. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U145	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U146	7. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It is envisaged to clarify the rules for examining the application in municipalities, including the deadlines. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U147	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U148	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U149	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U150	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U151	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U152	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. One of the grounds for refusal to grant remuneration to accommodationers is clarified. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U153	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U154	11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Clarifying the remuneration rules for accommodationers. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U155	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U156	12. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Clarifying the rules on remuneration for hosts and giving the municipality the right to recover costs if certain circumstances occur. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U157	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U158	13. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U159	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U160	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U161	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U162	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Proposal from Parliamentary Secretary Zamur, Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. Clarifying the regulation of the accounts provided by municipalities. Partially supported, included 16. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U163	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U164	16. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Clarifying the regulation of the accounts provided by municipalities. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U165	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U166	17. - Proposal from Parliamentary Secretary Zamur, Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. Provision is made for additional accommodation in municipalities. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U167	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U168	18. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. Provides a framework for the feeding of minors to Ukrainian civilians in an educational establishment. Supported by 19. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U169	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U170	19. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Explanation of the above-mentioned provision. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U171	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U172	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Complements to the regulation of the law on the transfer of news and informational analytical programmes or parts thereof in the use of remuneration free of charge to other electronic media. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U173	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U174	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of Members Stein, Ruksan-Schipčinsk, Voika, Steel and Bauman. In taking on and acting in this capacity, he has therefore actively supported actions and policies which undermine the territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of Ukraine, and further destabilised Ukraine. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U175	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U176	22. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The transitional provisions shall be specified. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U177	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U178	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The transitional provisions shall be supplemented. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U179	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U180	24. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. Partially supported, included 25. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U181	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U182	And 25. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The Commission has improved the above-mentioned provision. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U183	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U184	I call on the Saeima to support this draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U185	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on amendments to the Ukrainian civilian support law (No. 1457/Lp13) in the second, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the law on civilian support of Ukraine” (No. 1465/Lp13), first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U186	In the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, we have also examined today, at first reading, the draft law “Amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Support Law” (No. 1465 Lp13). The draft law provides for a regulation on the acquisition of assessments by Ukrainian civilians, who are studying general primary education, general secondary education or vocational secondary education programmes 2021.2022. in the school year, as well as on the language of acquisition of education from 1 September 2022. Also, the norms regarding the provision of social services to Ukrainian civilians are specified, as well as it is planned to establish the procedure for carrying out disability expertise in Latvia for Ukrainian civilians. The Commission unanimously supported the urgency of the draft law, which I also call on the Saeima to decide on.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U187	Please call me! Vote on the draft law “Amendments to the law on civilian support for Ukraine” (No. 1465 Lp13) is urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U188	I call on the Saeima to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U189	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on amendments to the Ukrainian civilian support law (No. 1465 Lp13) at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U190	The Commission decided to fix the deadline for the submission of proposals at 5 p.m. on 16 May this year. And consideration of the Saeima sitting - 19 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U191	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 16 May this year, by 5 p.m. Consideration at the Saeima sitting on 19 May this year. Draft law “Law on Civil Union”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U192	We're going on, colleagues. Before the second reading, the Legal Commission looked at the draft law “Law on Civil Union” (No. 1380 Lp13). 83 proposals were received. 1. - Mr Kirštein's proposal to change the title of the draft law by extending the scope of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U193	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U194	I would like to unite the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U195	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U196	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Laws are usually written to solve a real problem in society. In particular, the necessity to comply with the judgment of the Constitutional Court is one of the reasons why the issue of regulation of partnership has appeared on the agenda again. The draft law prepared by the Ministry of Justice “Law on Civil Union” provides that two adult persons conclude a notary civil union, thus receiving protection for personal and property relations at the intended amount. In fact, this proposal is an attempt to improve the draft law, so on this proposal, as I understand it. With the adoption of the Law on Civil Union, one of the tasks given by the Constitutional Court would be fulfilled – to resolve the personal and property relations of persons living outside of marriage. The second task given by the Constitutional Court is to ensure social and economic protection of the family... and support. It can be carried out by the legislator by specifying in the law the right of the family to special protection and support by providing for different measures for the protection and support of the family. To achieve this, after the adoption of the Civil Union Law, the Ministry of each sector will have to review its legislation, several more and more, and assess the need for amendments to provide social and economic protection to couples who will conclude a civil union. I would like to think that the Civil Union law is intended not only for same-sex couples, but not only for persons of one sex. In my view, some people interpret these draft laws too narrowly, including Members of the Saeima. As a member of the Saeima, I have faced many cases where no homosexual, no same-sex couple are involved. For example, let us start by saying that the reasons why people do not marry can be very different. There are no longer times when living together begins only after marriage. Young people may want to understand whether they will be able to live together; they may have to study in another city, another country, and start living together, guided by economic considerations. Second example: Two elderly people may have a similar situation. For example, two single neighbours decide to join forces and live in one apartment (the space is sufficient, each has its own stable) in the years when income is falling, and to rent the other. For lonely people, it may also help to sort out an age - old question: What will happen if I become ill and cannot make my own decision about my own treatment. Colleagues, we have no one yet lived and we don't know what's going on. It is clear that this is also a very topical issue for same-sex couples. And not always all situations can be solved with power. Therefore, the Civil Union law could probably help people to protect their personal and property rights. There is a 'configuration' in the party on this issue, which has always been the case; we have always had, have and will have a free vote on this subject. This is a very sensitive issue that we look at calmly and pragmatically. And, of course, there are purely practical things, concrete people with specific problems, and these problems need to be addressed. At the same time, I will say what we absolutely cannot do now: the pre-election in a delirium situation will lead, for example, to a popular vote on this subject, because I believe that this will be a war where no one can win, because the other party will never change its view. The only trophys will be hate, perverted wounds and insults. We all see that, so to speak, the document produced by the Ministry of Justice in the great ideological pains is also not an easy, gentle way to speak in the Saeima. What is the solution? What solution do I see? Well, in this case, I would like to quote the Ziedonis that “there is no such great happiness. ... there are only such little wins.’ Thus, the formula of happiness could look like this. Decisions of the Constitutional Court can be implemented both narrowly and widely. Narrowly, to comply with the labour law standards, and this is already happening in Parliament. Wider rights for same-sex couples. I think that, for the wider version, the majority of society is not ready at the moment, because society is very tired of various shocks, so I think it would be better to postpone the adoption of a wider solution, this particular law, for the time after the elections. I call for a broader solution to leave the next parliamentary term - 14. The Saeima. Another solution proposed by the author of the proposal is to try to extend the purpose and scope of the law by replacing the words "civil union" with "joint household". This would probably protect and not discriminate against the common interests of all people living in the household, the interests of all. I think that we should not now try to narrow the law in Parliament and use terms that are more oriented towards same-sex couples. In any case, this law will not solve all the problems, because there will be a need for amendments to a number of other laws and a thorough revision of all laws. Therefore, dear colleagues, is a substance for reflection, voting on every proposal and on the draft law as a whole.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U197	Thank you. Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U198	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Ladies and gentlemen! This proposal, 1 and, in fact, others from the National Alliance - Mr Kirštein - is very important. They're basically... this group of proposals can change (and in a good sense!) the meaning of this draft law, because we have repeatedly talked about the objective... we understand that this bill, like it's gone... with supported proposals... from the committee meeting, in fact, de facto, form a new institution of marriage. And we must take into account another factor - the ruling of the Constitutional Court. Therefore, colleagues, in order to adopt a law, but to eliminate the objective concerns that a large part of Latvian society currently has, I really call for the vote to be made in favour of this proposal, the first one, the essence of which is to set out a completely clear alternative direction to this draft law, namely to establish that this law will be "for the protection of the rights of private individuals living in a joint household" rather than for a civil union; that there will probably be no additional translation - a new institution of marriage with the result. We see that in other countries of the European Union, where such a law has been passed... We see what the next steps have been in a few years' time, three or seven or ten years' time, which are the marriages of same-sex partners. However, if we move along the path indicated in this proposal, colleagues, we will comply with both the ruling of the Constitutional Court (at least in the part that we have spoken about in the Commission) and also eliminate these concerns that dismantling of traditional values could take place; these - traditional - values are those which, however, form the basis of Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U199	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U200	Hello, dear people! As a member of the Saeima, to whom everything is attributed, including that I am gay, because I look very good. I have an opinion on this bill; I have an opinion from a practical point of view, as I say. That is, one of the most active supporters of my political organization is gay Maigur, he is also a big donor enough, and he has expressed his opinion - as my constituents - as he sees all of this and why he supports conservative values, and why he does not support gay marriage itself as a gay. I've had a lot of experience, too... I can tell you very openly... I've been overnight in the same hotel room with gay -- it was very cowardly, bad sleep came, but... We had long conversations, intellectuals, gay marriages, and we came to one very important conclusion: normal gays are not relevant to this issue, normal gays are interested in well-being and rich Latvia, not whether... They, as they say, change one friend from another friend... How they do all this, I don’t know. (Laughter) ... You're really... You kicked me out of your mind... But those who laugh the most and have fun... Remember that for those who deny the most homosexuality, latent homosexualism is certainly true. Mr Riekstins, it was in your direction, by the way, not for nothing, you always pay particular attention to me at any time. ( Milestones.) Why should we support Mr Kirštein's proposal to change the title of the law? This law will not be about some kind of union. If you live a man and a woman together, then... if he's a normal old man, then he marrys that woman. Everyone is waiting for their ring and their white dress. And if the old man is normal, then he takes and marrys. This can be done for free very quickly, in the course of the week itself - it can be done at a great speed. The other thing. All the rest of us who live together... I'm so sorry... If I live with several people in different addresses, on Mondays - one, Tuesday - I will start... by this law... legal problems. All those next proposals that are ahead... there will only be legal problems, because it will turn out that... the court will be able to prove that there's one lady with me living on a joint farm, and there's another gentleman living with me on a joint farm... Mr. Tawar, I look at you if. That whole law is such a big legal problem, so it would be better to... It needs to be renamed... put another name on it and move away from gay marriages, because in fact, the most important thing in Latvia is not monuments, but gay marriages, but to make people rich. For people, not just Members (Interface.) ... Not just Members. Let us change the title of the bill and let us calm down this issue, and let us not disturb the public on another totally minor, non-essential thing that will in no way improve our lives - neither my nor my Member Riekstina! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U201	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U202	In the Commission, the proposal was not supported. I call for this proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U203	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Mr Kirstein's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U204	2. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. It is also intended to change the title of the draft law. And so... All the next proposals by Member Julia Stepanenko will also be based on this proposal, with a view to creating a new law on the basis of this law. The Commission is not supported, but now...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U205	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U206	Colleagues! The draft law of the Civil Union does not need Latvia at all, and it is a lie that comes from those who claim that the Constitutional Court has imposed it on us as an obligation to make a new regulation regarding the cohabitation of same-sex couples. What the Constitutional Court has decided is to amend Section 155(1) of the Labour Law. And the Saeima does it. This is a side-by-side measure that the pre-election process is trying to do with the forces we know, which are also those to whom... They may have thought that they had a spine, but they had an esophagus like shrimps instead of their spine. I am talking about colleagues who have encouraged this draft law... from the Ministry of Justice. And unfortunately, the working group, which called on several non-governmental organisations, could not agree on this draft law, because this draft law was not put on the agenda at all; this draft law of the Civil Union was simply drawn out of the drawer and put on the table to the Legal Commission. And those people who spent months working in a working group to work on regulation, fighting to be the law of the household, or the law of the family - they simply remained unaware of this decision. Of course, this is a very, very unfair attitude towards those people who worked on this bill to find a common language. I call for this bill to be fully - completely! - ignore and talk about the things that really matter to us in Latvia. Our neighbours Lithuanians, our colleagues, have successfully adopted the draft Family Strengthening and Defence Law, and I suggest that their draft law be moved to Latvia - to translate it and introduce it instead of this absolutely unnecessary bill. We know that 24 percent of families in Latvia have one parent. These families need protection. We know that 12 000 families are with three children, 2300 with four children, 700 with five children and 400 with six or more children. These families also need special protection and support. And, of course, also for families with children with disabilities. Unfortunately, there is also a large number of divorces - 46 percent of the marriages are divorced in the first ten years. We can certainly find a solution so that we do not have such large numbers; that people really do not divorce; that people do not get caught up in various gambling. And, as we have said today, unfortunately alcoholism is also a problem. It is also a battle against our colleagues in Lithuania and they have success. I therefore call on you to support the draft law on strengthening and protecting the family... the name is also changed. And that day... Today, instead of the draft law on civil union, talk about really important things that we need in strengthening Latvia. Thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U207	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U208	I would like to support Julia Stepanenko's proposal because, given that it is the other... the other side of the opposition conditionally, or the party that is about gay marriage... obviously there's one part as well... It should be gay. I know there are several gays in the Saeima... Right, Mr. Urbanovich? ( The ring of noise.) I have such a very strange feeling, why does the gay marriage issue not come to be defended by those gays who are in the National Union, who are in the party “Congregation”? IN THE new Unity, of course, I think that all of them are there. But it is very suspicious that it is. Why? Because we do not hear the arguments about the substance, why such a law is necessary at all. There is no argument that would prevent anyone from living together in any relationship in Latvia today, in the 21st century, in the respective May 2022 period. Nothing prevents this from happening. Why Do You Need a New Law? Because a man and a woman are too lazy to marry, I apologize. Well, if they have too little social responsibility to each other, that is their problem, the state does not need to intervene there. It does not need to be regulated by the state. On the other hand, arguments about someone having... someone is not in the hospital or somewhere else. It's a lie. The hospital can go to a completely unknown person and help and care. It's absolutely a lie. What else? You can't think? Mantot can be any man. What exactly cannot be done? Oh, to protect the children? Children can also be protected. In fact, the Saeima should adopt laws that protect any child, and this has nothing to do with who lives with. There is no rational argument, including from Mr. Urbanovich, why gays should live in marriage. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Beitnere-Le Galla: “Well, you can’t... This is offensive.” ) That must be understood. Why? Because in the Latvian Constitution... Even though I hear I was told behind my back that it was offensive. No, it's not offensive. The Constitution of Latvia does not provide for such an institution. Our constitution does not mean this, and that is nothing we should not talk about. We can and must talk about this. ( Internouncing call.) And it is very simple to talk about it, because private life (Interface: “Constitutional of Latvia... “)... I'm sorry, the private life doesn't start, it doesn't end with what's doing in the bedroom. Family relationships are not a result of sexual relations, and family relationships are a result of responsibility.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U209	Mr Gobzem, I call for the draft law to be discussed, not Members. I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so? ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U210	So, as I said, the proposal is intended to change the title of the law, and also, on the basis of this proposal, all the next proposals are intended to establish a new law on the basis of this law. Consequently, the Commission did not support the proposal. I call for this not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U211	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - the proposal tabled by Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 23, against - 39, abstaining. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U212	3. - Mr Kirštein's proposal. In connection with proposal 1, provision is made for the words ‘civil union’ to be replaced by ‘common household’ in the law. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U213	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U214	The family is an institution formed on the basis of responsibility. Accountability, Mr. Neighbours, - the basis of responsibility! ( Interface: “Renewed... “ So it’s not the sexual relationship between people. There are many families without sexual relations, but they are families. Because this institute has a different basis. It's not about human sexuality. Thus, the term “family” cannot apply to each relationship... and there is no reason to apply to each relationship. It's a story, it's its thinking, and it's crucial. Those who consider and stress that they are different have the right to be different. With all due respect! Everybody doesn't have to be the same. But if you are different, do not demand the same thing, then demand the same thing. Then be different to the end. Courageous and otherwise. And this is precisely the reason that the family has historically - not only according to the Constitution, but hundreds of years, thousands of years - formed between a man and a woman. It has been so, and it will always be so. Children are born in a union where there is a man and a woman, while the family is formed in a relationship where there is a responsibility and not where the police must be called... Mr. Neighbours! And that's the question. That is a question of values. It has nothing to do with a man... It's lying again... it has nothing to do with the legal protection of people or the legal well-being of people, and it does not result from the fact that their relationship, whatever it may be, is simply named in one name or another. So, if I started with a joke, I need to go on with a joke that is, of course, very surprised to me, but listening... And I really know enough homosexual people, both in Latvia and outside Latvia... People who think rationally - their main desire is to live in a country where there is prosperity and respect for each other, not in which there are posters, flags, signs that do not solve anything. And this law does not solve anything. It doesn't help anyone, it doesn't help anyone else, it doesn't help anyone else, it doesn't help anyone else, it doesn't help anyone else. It's ruining our society... on which are the foundations of our whole-based society... identity. And that divides society. It is not in vain that there is a saying of “divide and rule” and it is used so often in this building. Broken, so that we can continue to rule, not unite, not talk about the substance of the problem. That's the reason. That's why I understand that I can dislike many, especially those who shout on me loudly, even though the beam itself in the eye is much bigger... Mr. Neighbours! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U215	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U216	Therefore, proposal 3 was not supported. I call for a 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U217	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - Mr Kirstein's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U218	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Legal techniques... Supported by the Commission. ( Interface: “Let’s vote! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U219	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 38 (Interfaces: “No!” ), against and refrains - not. There's no quorum. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 47, for - no, for - 1. There's still no quorum. Please call me! Please register the presence of Members! ( Internouncing call.) Please get the result! 78 members have registered. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 52, for - not ( Dep. Mr Stepanenko: “... TOWARDS!’ ; the intermediate saying: “Let the people of Harmony live!” ) and abstained - 1. The proposal is supported. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U220	So let's keep going. 5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Legal techniques... Supported by the Commission. ( Interface: “Let’s vote! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U221	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - The Legal Bureau's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 49, for - 1, for - 2. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U222	6. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. Defines the purpose of other laws... with a view to creating a new draft law on the basis of the existing draft law. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U223	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U224	Dear colleagues, I still suggest that we focus on the draft law that I hope may be adopted... if not this Saeima, then 14. The Saeima. There we will also talk about the well-being of families - not only the well-being of individual parliamentary groups, which is growing after every vote. ( The ring of noise.) That's right, honorable arrangement! I call on you to support this proposal, which sets out the objective of the law, of establishing the way in which the institutions cooperate with one another in strengthening and protecting the family. We know that there are various amendments to the parliament's budget every year in the debate, and we do not see an impact on demographics in these laws, we do not see an impact on families, and often members of the Saeima, together with the ministries, prepare poor-quality draft laws, which must then be corrected, because they often have a negative impact on families. In order for such things not to happen, there is a need for inter-institutional cooperation; it will not be a centre of demographics, on which we unfortunately do not hear at all in recent times. I do not know whether the reason for this is that Mr Kariņš is currently ignoring this issue or is simply not working. But we are talking about it being a horizontal platform for cooperation, where both ministries, the Saeima, the Ombudsman and local authorities are working together to strengthen families and fight for the well-being of families at all levels. I call on you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U225	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U226	So, as I said, both this, previous and all other proposals by Julia Stepanenko are aimed at creating a new law and not at supplementing it. Consequently, both this and all the other proposals from Julia Stepanenko were not supported by the Commission. I also call for this proposal to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U227	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - the proposal tabled by Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 17, for - 40, for - 10. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U228	7. - Julia Stepanenko's proposal. There is no support in the Commission. ( Interface: “Let’s vote! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U229	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - the proposal tabled by Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 21, for - 40, for - 9. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U230	8 / 8 - also the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. The Commission is not supported either.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U231	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U232	Dear colleagues, In all these disputes, many have certainly forgotten at all, which is the family, which is the family definition and that society should also focus on strengthening the family definition. We know that the referendum threshold is too high at the moment so that we can collect these signatures for amendments to Article 110 of the Satversme, but we will do our utmost to do so. There is still time, so I also call on everyone to do so. But if we talk about the law of strengthening and protecting the family, the terms used in it are those that we would also like to see in our laws. So, who's the family? It's a marriage, adoption or family-based union of natural persons, not something that we're trying to impose on some as if they were lawyers -- that it could be a friend who came to help a young mother with the care of her child, changing the little baby's pampers... It is also a family suddenly, as we heard in the debate before the Constitutional Court. And that a child is considered to be an embarrassment to help just a young mother to survive something, and that paternity leave should be shared with other people, with any passer-by, who will help Mom to deal with this problem that you think... that a child - that's a problem. But it's not! I want to return to the fundamental values of saying that paternity leave and the father are very important for the family during the first days of the child's life, months. That is why this paternity leave was also necessary, which you have, of course, damaged at the moment. This vacation was also needed for the child to get to know his father and for his father to be able to connect with the child. That is why we also need this draft law on the strengthening of the family, in which we will be able to wipe away all these nightmares, the legal nightmares that you have worked for in this Saeima. I therefore call for this proposal to be supported by strengthening the family definition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U233	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U234	The proposal is not supported by the Commission. I call for a 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U235	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 24, for - 39, for - 7. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U236	9. - a proposal from Member Ramona Petraviča. It provides for a civil union to be concluded between an unlimited number of people. The Commission is therefore not supported. (Laughter) (See paragraph 4.5 of this Regulation.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U237	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Ramona Petraviča. ( Interface: “But there is nothing about moves! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U238	And for cats, too... Colleagues, the proposal excludes the word "two" from Article 3 of the draft law. Let me point out that the legislative motivation is to ensure legal, social and economic protection for families and support without discrimination against any of them. In that case, it is not clear to me why the principle of draft laws does not discriminate against families who pursue police or other forms of cohabitation involving three or more persons, when they establish and unite economic and social relations. Note that the draft law does not mention the need for trust or mutual love, so such amendments do not call into question any other points. The non-inclusion of forms of community with three or more persons in the Civil Union Law - following the motivation of the draft law - would be discrimination against them. Why can two men form a civil union, but three cannot? But there are different forms of families, not just what you do. ( Interface: ‘ What are these? ’) ) Or maybe you’re doing different things, but don’t come out of the closet. When this question was asked at the sitting of the Legal Commission, I received a clearly insufficient answer – that such forms of co-habitation as the police were not accepted in Latvian society and had not been examined in the Constitutional Court, although the Constitutional Court said that all families should be protected, not only those consisting of two persons or as otherwise... I do not know that there would ever have been a survey in society that society is supporting - some family support or some support. If such a survey were to exist, it is likely that representatives of the homosexual or transgender society would also support such a proposal and such families. The answer to the absence of aid in society is therefore, at best, speculative. If, however, representatives of the Ministry of Justice expect that members of society demand such a proposal, then it will be a clear reference to the unthinkableness of the Civil Union law. In view of the above, I think it is becoming clear that the Civil Union law is not a way of ensuring the protection of officially unregistered forms of cohabitation. In this case, it is necessary to regulate - theoretically - the protection of all forms of cohabitation, because the proposals proposed by the Constitutional Court and public activists to guarantee protection by supplementing the Labour Law with the possibility to conclude notary agreements would be completely sufficient and proportionate. I would also like to point out that Article 8 states that an existing civil union prohibits marriage with a person with whom there is no civil union. Thus, if a civil union is concluded, it means that you can also marry. Since the same-sex marriage ban is not provided for, the same-sex couples of these articles are likely to also be used as an excuse to marry the same-sex marriages by entering into a civil union in advance. This will legalise the same-sex marriage completely freely and the existence of a natural family. And that is not acceptable. On the other hand, Article 5 allows a national of any country to join a civil union and could therefore also be used as a gold visa. If the Civil Union law really aims to promote the protection of officially unregistered partnerships without discrimination, please support all forms of families, not just those of two people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U239	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U240	What is demagogy from the leaders of this bill - which is, of course, quite strange - is that the representatives of conservative values - the New Conservative Party - are leading the gay marriage law. This is surprising, nowhere in the world a conservative force exists (Interface: “except for Great Britain and Germany!” )... Yeah. But its main problem is the following: no defender of this law is able to climb into the platform to justify the rational reasons why it is necessary. I stress this for the second time. What will this change? What will make Latvia better... how Latvia will become for people... How will it become more full of people, richer, and so on? How will our lives change to a positive side simply because we adopt such a law? I understand the essence of Ramona Petraviča's proposal, which is ironic, to allow everyone, but if let everyone, then everyone. How, then, do I think in these liberals that gays can now marry, that some conservativeism has stolen in you - that yet not to the end? I do not understand their nature either. If it's liberal, then liberal, let's all go right and left. ( Internouncing call.) We can put it like in some other countries that can live (under Ramona Petraviča's proposal)... and actually already lives... There are families where people live in the three, four. Before getting married, perhaps some cows, the sheep should be given in a powder... or who's there. But it's a different world. Other value system. If we are in the system of values in which we have been 1000 years old, perhaps we have to stick to this system of values, because it is not understandable that you gay defenders want to achieve this by rejecting Ramona Petraviča's proposal. Why are three gays not allowed to live together and form a family, but two are allowed? Where is the difference? Explain, liberal forces. Explain, the conservative UK party that drives this all. Where's that little nuance, legal? And it's not understandable if there's such a nuance, because it's not really because the family institution... Because there is no argument to explain or deny such a nuance, there is simply no objective argument. The only argument is that the family institution - it is just a matter of values, not a legal instrument, because today, in the 21st century, people can live and live together, even without getting married, and nothing happens. And you can live. It's their choice. Today... In the 21st century, people live in different forms of cohabitation, but marriage is a special legal structure for one particular case, and that is something that needs to be preserved. That is the main reason - the values that we then have or do not have. Looks like we don't have any value anymore, everything sold out and everything given to gays. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U241	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U242	In the Commission, the proposal was not supported. I call for a 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U243	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - the proposal tabled by Member Ramona Petraviča! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 9, for - 43, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U244	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal for a legal technique from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U245	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 49, it's against and refrains - it's not. ( Milestones.) There's no quorum. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 50, for - 1, for - 1. ( Milestones.) The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U246	11. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. The Commission was not supported. ( The utterances are: ‘ Let’s vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U247	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. - the proposal tabled by Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! ( Interface: Juri, Juri!) ; methacrylics.) Please get the result! For -4, for -37, for -10. There's no quorum. ( The paragraphs are: ‘ Yes.’) ‘No’. ) I'm sorry, is... Yeah, it's 51. So, for - 4, for - 37, for - 10. The proposal is not supported. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U248	The one we stayed with? 12, huh? 12. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U249	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 50, for - no, for - 3. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U250	13. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U251	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U252	Dear colleagues, Despite whether or not you are in favour of creating another draft law on the basis of this draft law, I call on you to draw attention to this point in the draft Civil Union Law, and the next proposal tabled by Mrs Golubeva after the deadline, which became the proposal of the Legal Commission, is a very important aspect of Latvia's security. We talked about concluding a civil union - also on cross-border issues. We understand that currently in Latvia we want to get to different persons. It is likely that they will have a gift from Mrs Golubeva and from the Development/About Group. in order to obtain the right to reside as easily as possible in Latvia, as is the case with marriage. In the Commission's debate on raising this issue, we did not hear such serious arguments from the Ministry of the Interior that all the risks that have been included in this proposal, in this article and also later in the proposal that came from Mrs Golubeva, have indeed been deliberately eliminated. For example, if we are talking about sham marriages, then it is possible to recognize marriages that are fictitious. There are certain relevant features, there is a mechanism by which marriages of convenience can be identified and illuminated by the authorities responsible. What about civil union? What is it at all? I like you, your picture on the Internet seems very interesting to me - let's make a civil union! And nothing more is needed for these people to be able to declare their union before the state and also to receive appropriate support measures. If, however, the conclusion of a marriage has a reflection period of one month, appropriate reports must also be obtained from the competent authorities to inform each other whether or not a person has been in the records. Then nothing is needed here. It's as simple as confirming friendship in Facebook, nothing more. And such a draft law with such an article you, colleagues, want to put in Latvia as valid. I call for my proposal to be supported by excluding this article and, of course, by not voting in favour, not to support Mrs Golubeva's proposal, which has turned into a proposal by the Legal Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U253	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U254	This proposal was not supported by the Commission. I call for a 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U255	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 13. - the proposal tabled by Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 20, for - 40, for - 11. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U256	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The legal commission's proposal. It is envisaged that civil union can be closed not only by Latvian citizens, but also by persons who are entitled to reside in Latvia. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U257	Members are in favour (Interfaces: “Vote!” )... Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 14. - The legal commission's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 50, for - 5, for - 3. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U258	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. The Commission was not supported. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Stepanenko: "We will vote!" ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U259	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 15. - the proposal tabled by Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 10, for - 40, for - 9. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U260	16. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The word ‘partys’ shall be replaced by ‘individuals’. Partially supported and included 17. - the Commission's proposal. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U261	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 16. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 1, for - 29, for - 23. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U262	17. - The legal commission's proposal. The word ‘party’ shall be replaced by ‘persons’. Supported by the Commission. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U263	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 17. - The Legal Commission's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 52, for - no, for - 3. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U264	18. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported by the Commission. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Stepanenko: "We will vote!" ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U265	Are Members willing to vote? Please call me! We will vote in favour of 18. - The Legal Commission's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 55, for - no, for - 4. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U266	19. - The legal commission's proposal. This is also supported by the Commission. ( Interface: “Let’s vote! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U267	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 19. - The legal commission's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 50, for - no, for - 2. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U268	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. The Commission was not supported. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Stepanenko: "We will vote!" ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U269	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 20. - The proposal by Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 13, against - 40, refraining from - 11. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U270	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Legal Office which is of a technical nature. Partly supported 22. - the Commission's proposal. ( Interface: “Let’s vote! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U271	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 21. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 1, for - 31, for - 22. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U272	22. - a proposal from the Legal Commission which is of a technical nature. Supported by the Commission. ( Interface: “Let’s vote! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U273	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 22. - The legal commission's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 51, for - no, for - 2. The proposal is supported. ( Interface: “A break! ”) ) Dear colleagues, time for break. Please call me! Please have Members' presence regime! Name For Inese Voika to read the registration results.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U274	Colleagues! Not registered: Raimonds Bergmanis, Aldis Blumbergs, Boriss Cilevičs, Gundars Dauge, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Ieva Krapāne, Armands Krauze, Atis Lejiņš (Dep. A. Krauze: “I am!” )... Armands Krauze is (Interface: “Many are!” )... Many? ( Interface: “No, I don’t see. ”) )... Many are also... Atis Lejiņš, Maris Mičerevskis... Yes, Roman Money and Victor Valainis (Dep. V. Valainis: “I am!” )... Valainis is also. Watch is all gone. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U275	Interruption until 3.30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U276	Ladies and gentlemen, let us continue the sitting of the Saeima after a break. On the agenda - draft law “Law on Civil Union”, second reading. The Legal Commission is responsible. On behalf of the commission responsible - Member Jānis Butāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U277	Colleagues, we continue to work on the draft law on Civil Union Law. We are on proposal 23. 23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The legal nature of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns... a proposal for a legal technique. Partly supported and included 24. - the Commission's proposal. ( Interface: “Let’s vote! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U278	Please call me! We will vote in favour 23. - the proposal submitted by the Minister of Justice, Bordan! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 0 to - 39, refrain - 7. So there's no quorum. Please call me! We will vote in favour 23. - the proposal submitted by the Minister of Justice, Bordan! Please vote mode! “ What’s going on? Good Minister.’ ; ‘The party shall put it to the vote.’ ) Please see the result. For - 0 to - 49, refrain - 8. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U279	24. - The legal commission's proposal. Proposal for a legal instrument Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U280	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 24. - The Legal Commission's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 50, for - no, for - 3. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U281	25. - the groups for Development/About! Proposal for a Regulation of the It has been withdrawn by a letter sent by the political group.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U282	The proposal has therefore been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U283	So we are not voting on it. 26. - the proposal made by Member Māra Možvillo, which provides that a civil union may not be concluded if the persons are of the same sex. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U284	Let us start a debate. The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U285	Hello, fellow Members, again! I would already like the rapporteur to read everything, not to get it out of context. My proposal is to include in this law exactly the same wording as in the Civil Law, because during the work of the Commission I have repeatedly ascertained that this law is, in fact, an alternative to marriage... law. Therefore, I think this provision should also be included here. And it would be only meaningful and consistent - as a complement to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U286	Name to Member Krista Bauman.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U287	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Everyone who looks at us and listens to us! This law is about the family. Jana and Lilita are family, Līga and Evita are family (Interface: “No!” ), Ģirt and Aksel are family (Interface: “No!” Ainar and Una are family. These couples are not married. Some of them have children. And they're family. That's what they think. It is also considered by the Constitutional Court. This law is also about humanity, that when we grant rights to others, we do not take them away or reduce them to anyone. We are exacerbating the rule of law. We are increasing support for families. And is that not in line with our country's Constitution and its policy of promoting demographics? Finally, I would like to thank our conservative colleagues - in this Chamber and in the government - for their constructive support for the rule of law, human rights and proof that modern conservativeism does not mean... there is no unnecessary sign of equality between that and homophobia. I call, of course, not to support the proposal in question, but to wholeheartedly support the draft Civil Union law as a whole at second reading. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U288	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U289	Sandy and John are not family. ( Interface: “Aldis! ” ) Ainar and Andris are not family. ( Internouncing call.) Inara and Eve are not families. The family is not these people who live together. The family is a duty that arises only in a union in which children can arise and in which children are born. This proposal is about it, because every cohabitation, cohabitation, dinner or breakfast together does not create a family. It has nothing to do with the family. Together going to the shop does not create a family. The family only creates what can be a continuation of our lives. In other words, our lives can be followed by children. I live in a world where children can emerge in a union between a man and a woman. At the same time, I also live in a society in which a man and a woman live together just the same way. I live in a community where a man and a man live together, or a woman live together, or many men and many women live together. ( Interface: “And how much? ” ) This is the case, for example, in hostels. But the family is when we as people have thoughts about continuation, thoughts about duty. Just have a good time - it's not a family. Our instincts and our consciences do not make a family; our prodigalness does not make a family. Only our duty towards children - against the children we can create ourselves! - make up the family. And to build a family, a man has to pray for a woman's hand. That is what we have in the part of the world that we represent - with a value system that is about the family - about a family that is registered in the Constitution as a union between a man and a woman. Everything else is a private matter, and it may happen, and it must be respected, but it is not a family. And it will never be a family, no matter what you want to think or achieve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U290	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U291	Yeah. The proposal is about something quite different. These are, in other words, circumstances which preclude the conclusion of a civil union. And in this case... The proposal by Member Māra Možvillo, which complements the conditions under which a civil union cannot be concluded, has not been endorsed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U292	Please call me! To be put to the vote on 26. - The Member's proposal, Mr Mozhville! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 20, for - 41, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U293	27. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. There is no support in the Commission. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U294	Are Members willing to vote? Is the vote requested? Please call me! We will vote in favour of 27. - the proposal tabled by Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -14, for -48, for -4. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U295	28. - Mr Kirštein's proposal. It is envisaged to reduce the number of circumstances preventing the conclusion of a civil union. In particular, it would allow the civil union to be closed to persons "who are relatives in a straight line, brothers and sisters and half-brothers and half-brothers", "adoptive adoptors". Partly supported by the Commission, included in proposal 29.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U296	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U297	29. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It also aims to reduce the number of circumstances that prevent the conclusion of a civil union. In particular, it provides for the exclusion of this paragraph: "Adpt adopters". Supported by the Commission. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U298	Please call me! To be put to the vote on 26. - the proposal submitted by the Minister of Justice, Jānis Bordāns! Please vote mode!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U299	29! 29!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U300	29, I'm sorry. We will vote in favour of 29. - the proposal submitted by the Minister of Justice, Jānis Bordāns! Please vote mode!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U301	Something's wrong on the screen.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U302	Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 47, for - no, for - 2. There's no quorum. Please call me! Please vote in favour of 29. - the proposal submitted by the Minister of Justice, Jānis Bordāns! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 52, for - no, for - 4. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U303	30. - The Member's proposal by John Izalnieks. Provision shall be made for the addition of a new paragraph, or a new circumstance, which excludes the conclusion of a civil union. In particular, the proposal provides that there is no right to conclude a civil union between members of the same sex.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U304	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, John Isal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U305	Good afternoon, colleagues! There is one problem in the current version of the Civil Union Law. ( Throughout the line: “Only! ”) ‘For the purposes of this Yeah, well... “ In principle, yes. Article 110 of the Satversme provides that only a man and a woman may conclude a marriage. This law, the new one, creates an institution of law that is very similar in purpose to marriage. And, as recognised by the lawmakers and supporters, there is a desire to complement the rights and responsibilities inherent in the civil union with further laws, namely to add a number of other rights and responsibilities specific to marriage. This is the case, for example, with inheritance rights, property rights, with regard to children... In many discussions, including the Commission, this has been said, and that is probably true. If we create a new institution of law with very similar rights and obligations for marriage, then it would be logical to extend the corresponding restrictions on marriage to this institution of law - both those set out in Article 110 of the Satversme and in the Civil Law. These restrictions, without the same sex, also include, for example, a brother with a sister and similar restrictions imposed on the institution of a civil union, but this one - the limit laid down in the Constitution - has not been introduced for any reason. If we adopt this law in such a wording, then I think this law will be unconstitutional because it will try to circumvent the restriction set out in Article 110 of the Satversme. Thus, my offer is very laconic - voting in favour of this additional restriction, which complies with Article 110 of the Satversme and the Civil Law regarding marriage in order to eliminate the contradictions of this law with Article 110 of the Satversme. I call for support to be given to this restriction, my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U306	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U307	This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U308	Please call me! We will vote for 30. - a proposal from the Member's Dealer! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 25, against - 38, abstaining - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U309	31. - The proposal from Members Eric Pucen and Kaspars Gürgen. Provision shall be made for the addition of an Article prohibiting the marriage of another person in the case of a civil union with another person already concluded; the addition of one further paragraph that no civil union may be concluded between representatives of the same sex. There is no support in the Commission. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U310	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 31. - the proposal from Members Erikas Pucen and Kaspars Girgens! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 17, for - 40, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U311	32. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. There is no support in the Commission. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Stepanenko: “Let’s vote!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U312	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 32. - The proposal by Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 13, against - 39, refraining - 14. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U313	33. - a proposal for a legal technique from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U314	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 33. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 48, for - no, for - 2. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U315	34. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. There is no support in the Commission. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U316	Neither is there a vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U317	35. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. There is no support in the Commission. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U318	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 35. - The proposal by Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 8, for - 39, for - 14. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U319	36. - a proposal for a legal technique from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission. ( Interface: “Let’s vote! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U320	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 36. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 50, for - no, for - 3. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U321	37. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. There is no support in the Commission. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U322	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 37. - The proposal by Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 12, for - 41, for - 12, for - 41, for - 12. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U323	38. - a proposal for a legal technique from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U324	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 38. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 51, for - no, for - 3. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U325	39. - a proposal of a technical nature of the legal office. Partly supported and included 40. - The Legal Commission's proposal. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U326	Members want to vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 39. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 0 to - 45, refrain - 5. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U327	40. - a proposal of a technical nature of the legal commission. Supported by the Commission. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U328	Members want to vote. Please call me! Let's vote for 40. - The Legal Commission's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 51, for - no, for - 3. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U329	41. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice Mr. Janis Bordans. Partly supported and included 42. - the Commission's proposal. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U330	Please call me! We will vote for 41. - the proposal submitted by the Minister of Justice, Jānis Bordāns! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 1, for - 41, for - 9. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U331	42. - a proposal for the legal technique of the Legal Commission. The Commission is supported. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U332	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 42. - The legal commission's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 44, for - no, for - 2. There's no quorum. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 42. - The legal commission's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 53, against - no, refraining - 3. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U333	43. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. There is no support in the Commission. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U334	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 43. - the proposal tabled by Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 5, against - 38, refraining - 14. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U335	44. - a proposal for a legal technique from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U336	Members want a vote. Please call me! To be put to the vote on 44. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 51, for - no, for - 2. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U337	45. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. There is no support in the Commission. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U338	Please call me! We'll vote for 45. - the proposal tabled by Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 9, for - 39, for - 10. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U339	46. - a proposal of a technical nature of the legal office. Supported by the Commission. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U340	Please call me! We will vote for 46. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 52, for - no, for - 3. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U341	47. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice Mr. Janis Bordans. Partly supported and included 48. - the Commission's proposal. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U342	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 47. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -0 to -47, refrains -6. The proposal is not supported. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U343	48. - The legal commission's proposal. The rules for the absence of a civil union shall be expressed precisely. Supported by the Commission. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U344	So Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 48. - The Legal Commission's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 53, against - no, refraining - 3. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U345	49. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U346	Members want a vote. Please call me! We will vote for 49. - The Legal Commission's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 51, for - 1, for - 3. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U347	50. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. There is no support in the Commission. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Stepanenko: “Vote!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U348	Not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U349	51. - also the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. Not supported by the Commission. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Stepanenko's intermediate call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U350	Please call me! We will vote for 51. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 8, against -54, refraining from -1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U351	52. - a proposal of a technical nature of the legal office. Supported by the Commission. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U352	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 52. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 54, for - no, for - 3. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U353	53. - Proposal of a similar nature - technical - of the legal office. Supported by the Commission. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U354	Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 53. - The Legal Bureau's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 53, against - no, refraining - 3. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U355	54. - a proposal of a technical nature by the Legal Office. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U356	Members (Interface: 'We are voting!') )... wishes to vote. Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 54. - The Legal Bureau's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 51, against - non-, refraining - 4. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U357	55. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U358	Neither is there a vote. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U359	56. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U360	Members (Interface: 'We are voting!') )... wishes to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 56. - The proposal by Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 8, against - 39, refraining from - 16. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U361	57. - a proposal of a technical nature of the legal office. Supported by the Commission. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U362	Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 57. - The Legal Bureau's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 52, for - no, for - 3. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U363	58. - Mr Kirštein's proposal. It is stated that in the event of sickness or death on one of the common parts of the household, the other party is entitled to the same social guarantees as those provided for by the law for members of the same family in such situations. There is no support in the Commission, because the law is not about a household, so there is a need to improve the law so that it can... There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U364	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U365	59. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported, included 62. - the Commission's proposal. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U366	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 59. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 1, for - 44, for - 6. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U367	60. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U368	The proposal is not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U369	61. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Partly supported, included 62. - the Commission's proposal. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U370	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 61. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 0 to - 45, refrains - 6. The proposal is not supported. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U371	62. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported by the Commission. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U372	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 62. - The legal commission's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 51, for - no, for - 3. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U373	63. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. There is no support in the Commission. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U374	Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 63. - The proposal by Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 5, for - 51, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U375	64. - a proposal of a technical nature of the legal office. Supported by the Commission. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U376	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 64. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 53, against - no, refraining - 3. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U377	65. - also a proposal of a similar nature - of a technical nature - by the Legal Office. Supported by the Commission. ( Interface: “It is not clear what the proposal is about... ) Consequently, the proposals of the Legal Bureau to change the word “party” to the word “participant”. There are several proposals of this nature, changing the word ‘party’ to ‘participant’.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U378	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U379	The Commission had disputes as to whether the law should use the term ‘party’ or ‘participant’. It seemed to me that it was so illiterate to say about it at all that it was even funny. Let me explain that the title of the law, as I understand it, is somehow related to civil relations, and there is no difference in civil relations, whether there is a party or a participant. The Commission said that, where there are parties, there are two, but where there are participants, there may be more than two. There is some kind of kind of conservatism there. But civil relations can also be trilateral, co-lateral, multilateral. And these multilateral relations are made up of members. The parties and the participants shall be the same. And there is no difference in what term to use – “party” or “members”. They can be two, they can be three, they can be ten. There may be ten sides and ten participants. It has nothing to do with whether there will be two or ten. Therefore, Ramona Petraviča took this thought very accurately, offering that everyone can use all forms. And it would be truly liberal, because otherwise I'm ashamed of our liberal wing, which wants to limit it to only two. Therefore, colleagues, remember that all these proposals on parties and participants are, in their deepest sense, legal illiteracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U380	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U381	Given that we have already supported previous proposals by the Legal Bureau, which provide for the term "participant" rather than "party", and this specific proposal is also precisely about that, it was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U382	Please call me! We will vote for 65. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 52, for - no, for - 3. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U383	66. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U384	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 66. - the proposal tabled by Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 9, for - 39, for - 14. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U385	67. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The words ‘party’ and ‘participant’ shall again be affected. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U386	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 67. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 51, for - no, for - 2. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U387	68. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U388	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U389	69. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Again of a technical nature, the words ‘party’ and ‘participant’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U390	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 69. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 53, against - no, refraining - 3. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U391	70. - Proposal of a similar nature - technical - of the legal office. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U392	Please call me! We'll vote for 70. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 51, for - no, for - 3. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U393	71. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Again, the words ‘party’ and ‘participant’ shall be corrected accordingly. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U394	Please call me! We will vote for 71. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 52, for - no, for - 3. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U395	72. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U396	Members want a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 72. - the proposal tabled by Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -9, for -46, for -4. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U397	73. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Also the replacement of the word ‘party’ by ‘participant’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U398	Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 73. - The Legal Bureau's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 52, for - no, for - 3. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U399	74. - also a proposal of a similar nature - of a technical nature - by the Legal Office. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U400	Please call me! We will vote for 74. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 51, against - non-, refraining - 4. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U401	75. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U402	Please call me! We will vote for 75. - the proposal tabled by Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 5, against - 47, refraining from - 5. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U403	76. - a proposal of a technical nature by the Legal Office. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U404	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 76. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 47, for - no, for - 4 The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U405	77. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. There is no support in the Commission. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Stepanenko: "We will vote!" ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U406	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote for 77. - The proposal by Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 9, for - 51, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U407	78. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Technically. Supported by the Commission. ( Interface: “Let’s vote! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U408	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 78. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 50, for - no, for - 4. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U409	79. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. There is no support in the Commission. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Stepanenko: "We will vote!" ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U410	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 79. - The proposal by Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 5, for - 50, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U411	80. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Technically. Supported by the Commission. ( Interface: “Let’s vote! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U412	Please call me! We'll vote for 80. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 49, for - no, for - 3. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U413	81. - the groups for Development/About! Proposal for a Regulation of the Cancelled by letter No. 111.8/ 4...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U414	The proposal has therefore been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U415	82. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It is envisaged to supplement Chapter IV on the property rights of the parties to the civil union by Title 2 in the relevant version. Supported by the Commission. ( Interface: “Let’s vote! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U416	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 82. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, John Bordan! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 48, for - no, for - 3. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U417	And the last one, 83. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It is planned to supplement the draft law with transitional provisions, setting the time for the entry into force of the law - 1 February 2023.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U418	Members...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U419	The Commission supports it, but Member Tavars has applied for a debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U420	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U421	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, In my opinion, this Minister of Justice... The last proposal in this draft law really makes it very clear... the whole process, as it happened, how it was driven. Minister of Justice - from a conservative party, just like the head of the Legal Commission - from a conservative party... This draft law will clearly, objectively, colleagues, divide our societies. If we are talking about a specific transitional period, then that period should be strong, much longer, one that will never come into force. I also remember very well the last sitting of the Legal Commission, which was scheduled for 29 days, just at the time of the formal sitting of the Saeima Sub-Commission in Latgale, which was organised in honour... dedicated to Latgale Congress Day, where representatives of, among other things, Conservatives were at the Bureau, talked about conservative values and applauded when representatives of Christian denominations clearly and lightly referred to this bill, that it is unacceptable, but at the same time the head of the Legal Commission from the Conservatives says: “What can be more important to Members than this? Which Latgale do you need to go to?” A member of this commission says: “I can’t come to the last meeting of the commission this day.” But, no, nothing can be more important, an extraordinary day, moving forward at a pace... as this draft law. We didn't listen to the working groups or people, we're just moving forward. Colleagues, that's not right. I hope that, in future readings, either we will indeed fully recast the bill, or we can count quite safely that there may also be a popular vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U422	The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U423	Colleagues! This bill and procedure reminds of participation in orientation competitions. Some participants have been given a map and a compass that shows in the north, the south, and a part unfortunately arrived later and received a globe instead of the map and the compass. And so they run through the forest with a globe and call those who have maps and compasses, not really correctly understanding what is happening in society. If this bill may not make a special resonance in Riga and the big cities, people in the countryside ask a simple question: “You really don’t have to do anything? For you, this bill is so important that it does not interest what will happen in the autumn with the heating, what will happen with the fuel that will happen to agriculture and what will happen to the economy as a whole?' If this draft law is so important, will everyone, with the same zeal and zeal, immediately after this law is passed, at the economic stage and all the other standards of living be set up with the same zeal and will they do so? I have strong doubts, because people are thinking about turning around as they run with the globe. For us, however, other things are important: that the orientation takes place in the right place and at the right time and to the right people. It is sad to see that the liberal values are now taking over what the country and Latvia need. And the rule of law in this case, which I mentioned, has been completely destroyed within the framework of this draft law, because it provides for things that are not in the Constitution and are not in the Civil Law. I therefore hope that there will be clarity for colleagues and yet they will vote against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U424	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U425	Ladies and gentlemen, we see the greatest counterfeiting in Parliament, called 'Conservatives', which promised their constituents to protect families and strengthen family values before the elections. And in some way at the moment they are trying to spill through the eye of the needle, to say that it is in fact a judgment of the Constitutional Court, which requires them to change as such at the moment. like shrimps on a pan... shrimps without vertebral column.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U426	Mrs Stepanenko! I must ask you to talk about the proposal, on the subject.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U427	Talking about the proposal. Colleagues, we see that this draft law, which sets a deadline - February next year - is not in any way related to the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Court. We see it. And the new Conservative Party, or Conservatives, has led this draft law contrary to the request of 49 non-governmental organisations, they have led it contrary to the opposition of their constituents, and it was important to only fulfill this promise given to someone. Because we know that after the draft Civil Union or Cohabitation Law or any other name for such union laws in all other countries where such initiatives were supported, of course, it was also encouraged to look at the issues of same-sex marriages, which in our country respectively means deconstruction of Article 110 of the Satversme. And it's definitely right now with one... One step closer has also been taken by so-called Conservatives, who have now opened up a new, negative section in the area of family law by means of the draft law on civil union. I call on you not to support this draft law and, of course, to submit proposals at third reading, which will completely abolish this Conservative-driven deconstruction of Article 110 of the Satversme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U428	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U429	I would like to congratulate all Latvian gays, all members of the Saeima on their actual adoption of the gay marriage law. And before I say, “A new couple is bitter!” I would like to express my greatest thanks to the National Union, which is at the heart of this coalition, so that this draft law can be adopted. Congratulations. And, for a new couple, bitter! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U430	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so? ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U431	On behalf of the Commission, I can add that this deadline is set by the Ministry of Justice, because it is necessary to adapt different databases and... law... both internal rules of procedure and other laws and regulations. So it's optimal to think... 1 February 2023 I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U432	Please call me! We will vote for 83. - the proposal submitted by the Minister of Justice, Jānis Bordāns! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 51, for - 9, for - 4. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U433	Legal Commission... So we have examined all the proposals. The Legal Commission has supported the second reading of the draft law. I also call on Members to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U434	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law on Civil Union Law at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 43, for - 32, for - 1. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U435	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be five days, 17 May of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U436	Please turn on the microphone for Ralph Nemiro.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U437	I call for a deadline of five years for the submission of proposals. ( Interface: “Future! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U438	Please give a date. Mr. Nemir, please name the date. ( Impressions: “For 2027! ” “How many years have you said?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U439	12 May 2027 ( Interface: “Pulsten - how? ” (Laughter)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U440	I must say that this is an impossible deadline, because it is possible to set the deadline for proposals by the end of this parliamentary term. ( Internouncing call.) So please, microphone member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U441	I offer 1 November 2022. ( Intercretion: “Thank you, it’s not possible, because the new Saeima is coming.” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U442	Just a minute! ( Pause) No, colleagues, that's November 1 and the Saeima... No, November 1 is impossible, because November 1 meets the new Saeima. It shall inform the Legal Office. Please turn on the microphone for Aldum Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U443	I'm on. I would like to offer 31 October. Then we will get over the next Saeima with this bill as it needs. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U444	So, 31 October this year. We have two deadlines for submitting proposals - 17 May this year and 31 October this year. ( Interfaces: “5 October. ”) ; “Let’s vote!” ) We will be voting on the next proposal - on the deadline for tabling proposals - on 31 October this year. Please call me! Let us vote on the deadline for tabling proposals on 31 October this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 40, for - 40, for - 40, for - 2. This deadline is therefore not supported. It shall remain in force on 17 May this year. (Applause) So the deadline for proposals is 17 May this year. We're going on. The draft law “On disposal of real estate in Mūkupurva Street, Riga, for public needs – construction of the European standard line “Rail Baltica” on the corridor of “Rail Baltica” through Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U445	At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 3 May, the draft law “On disposal of real estate in Mūkupurva Street, Riga, for public needs – construction of a European standard railway line “Rail Baltica” in the corridor of “Rail Baltica” through Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania” (No. 1221/Lp13). For the implementation of the project “Construction of the European Standard Width 1435 mm railway line on the Rail Baltica corridor through Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania” it is necessary to dispose of real estate on Mūkupurva Street, Riga (cadastra Nr. 0100 099 2183), the part of the unit of land in the area of 0,6146 hectares. The real estate part is disposed of for the development of infrastructure related to the construction of railway transport infrastructure and disposal is the only way to achieve this objective. No proposals were submitted for the second reading. The benefit that the company will gain by imposing restrictions on the fundamental rights of the owner of real estate on Mūkupurva Street, Riga, is greater than the damage caused to the individual's interests, because in this case, the real estate is necessary for the achievement of specific public interests and public objectives - the construction of railway transport infrastructure, which will ensure the integration of Latvia into the European Union rail system by promoting mobility of Latvian citizens and economic development. The Legal Commission has supported the draft law for second reading. I call on my colleagues to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U446	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “On disposal of real estate in Mūkupurva Street, Riga, for public needs – for the implementation of the project “Construction of the European Standard Width 1435 mm railway line in the Rail Baltica corridor through Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U447	The deadline for submitting proposals is 31 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U448	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 31 May this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”, second reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Aldis Adamovičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U449	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” (No. 1321/Lp13). Two proposals were received by the Commission. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Provision shall be made for applying the procedure laid down in the Law on State Civil Service to the severance grant. The Commission has partially supported and included 2. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U450	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U451	2. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Article 17(12)(3) provides for the following wording: ‘A official appointed or approved by the Cabinet of Ministers or appointed by the Minister shall, upon termination of his civil service, on the basis of a mutual agreement with the member of the Cabinet of Ministers concerned.’ Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U452	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U453	Both proposals have therefore been examined. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U454	Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U455	So the deadline for proposals for third reading is five days - until 17 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U456	Thank you. Deadline for the submission of proposals: 17 May this year. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Commercial Law’, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U457	Hello, fellow Members, again! This draft law will hopefully be much, much simpler than the previous one. Consequently, the draft law on ‘Amendments to the Commercial Law’ is under consideration (No. 1272 Lp13). The second reading received quite a lot, I would say, the proposals - 42 proposals, but there is no reason for concern. So it's 1. - the proposal of Member Indricson. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U458	Members (Interface: 'vote!') )... asks for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the proposal tabled by the Member, Indricksones! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 10, for - 37, for - 13. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U459	Go on. 2. - The proposal of a Member of the Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, Mr. Janis Bordan. Partially supported, included 3. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U460	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U461	3. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U462	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U463	4. - The proposal of a Member of the Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, Mr. Janis Bordan. Partially supported, included 5. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U464	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U465	5. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U466	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U467	6. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Partially supported, included 7. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U468	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U469	7. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U470	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U471	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Partially supported, included 9. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U472	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U473	9. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U474	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U475	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Partially supported and included 11. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U476	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U477	11. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U478	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U479	Very, very long table. I'm sorry for that long table. 12. - the proposal of Member Indricson. The Commission was not supported. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U480	Members want a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. - the proposal tabled by the Member, Indricksones! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 12, for - 40, for - 18. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U481	13. - the proposal of Member Indricson. This is also not supported by the Commission. ( Intercretion: Vote!) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U482	Members want a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 13. - the proposal tabled by the Member, Indricksones! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 10, for - 41, for - 20. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U483	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Partially supported, included 15. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U484	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U485	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U486	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U487	16. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U488	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U489	17. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Partly supported and included 18. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U490	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U491	18. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U492	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U493	19. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Partially supported, included 20. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U494	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U495	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U496	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U497	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Partially supported, included 22. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U498	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U499	22. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U500	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U501	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U502	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U503	24. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U504	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U505	25. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Partially supported, included 26. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U506	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U507	26. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U508	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U509	27. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Partially supported, included 28. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U510	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U511	28. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U512	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U513	29. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Partially supported, included 30. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U514	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U515	30. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U516	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U517	31. - John Bordan's proposal. Partially supported, included 32. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U518	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U519	32. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U520	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U521	33. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U522	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U523	34. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Partially supported, included 35. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U524	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U525	35. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U526	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U527	36. - the proposal of Member Indricson. There is no support in the Commission. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U528	Members want a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 36. - the proposal tabled by the Member, Indricksones! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 10, for - 40, for - 19. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U529	37. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Partially supported, included 38. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U530	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U531	38. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U532	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U533	39. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U534	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U535	40. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Partially supported, included 41. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U536	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U537	41. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U538	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U539	42. - a proposal from the committee responsible. This is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U540	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U541	All the proposals have therefore been examined. I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U542	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Commercial Law". Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 68, against and refrains - not. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U543	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 26 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U544	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 26 May this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Vocational Education”, second reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Raivis Dzintars.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U545	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The following three draft laws – “Amendments to the Law on Vocational Education”, “Amendments to the Law on Education” and “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education” – are a single set of draft laws related to amendments to the regulation of colleges. I would first like to add that these draft laws have also been the work of a working group set up by the Commission, consisting of representatives from both the ministries of education and science and industry experts. So let's start with the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Vocational Education". In total, 59 proposals have been received, which are related to the transfer of institutional regulation of colleges from the Law on Higher Education to the Law on Vocational Education. For places, the draft law makes references to the Law on Higher Education, providing that the issues of activities of individual colleges take place in compliance with the law on Higher Education. 1. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Definition of the term ‘strategic specialisation of a vocational education institution’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U546	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U547	2. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Definition of the term ‘development strategy of a vocational education institution’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U548	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U549	3. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Defines the term ‘work-based training’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U550	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U551	4. - Commission proposal. Supplements the competence of the Cabinet of Ministers... establish procedures for assessing the quality of the activities of the college. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U552	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U553	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers shall be specified by the Cabinet of Ministers, providing that the Cabinet of Ministers shall determine the content, scope, procedure and deadline of submission of information to be submitted to the Ministry of Education and Science on the activities of the College, as well as the procedure of making public. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U554	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U555	6. - a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science, Anita Muižniece. It also clarifies the first reading... delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers... Paragraph 2.1. The Commission has partially supported and included in proposal 5.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U556	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U557	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is stipulated that the Ministry of Education and Science supervises the implementation of the provisions of the Law on Higher Education in colleges. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U558	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U559	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Article 3 of the draft law shall be repealed in the version of the first reading. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U560	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U561	9. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The wording of the first reading is clarified for the new article on the Latvian College Association. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U562	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U563	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The wording of the first reading is clarified by stating that the order of the Cabinet of Ministers regarding the reorganisation, liquidation or establishment of the college. And that's the case with national colleges. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U564	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U565	11. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. It also clarifies the wording of the first reading, stating that the order of the Cabinet of Ministers is about the reorganisation, liquidation or establishment of the college. The Commission has been partly supported by the 10th proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U566	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U567	12. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. Disables first-read version for new parts... about college subordination... having regard to the specification of the content of the parts, moved to Article 15... The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U568	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U569	13. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is proposed to reword Article 6 of the draft law... on amendments to Article 15 of the Act. The proposed versions are specified in the Commission's proposal. Partly supported by the Commission, included 15. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U570	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U571	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. Proposal to add a new paragraph to Article 15... on the subordination of vocational education and training institutions. The Commission's proposal sets out a more precise version. Thus partially supported by the Commission, included 15. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U572	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U573	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Clarifying proposed amendments (Sitting driver knocks down with hammer.) Article 15 of the Law, including - on the exposure of vocational education institutions and supervision of colleges. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U574	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U575	16. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The first part of Section 16.1 of the Law “The Status and Name of Vocational Education Institutions” shall be supplemented with another status of the institution – college. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U576	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U577	17. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Article 16.1 shall be supplemented by a ninth paragraph providing that, when assessing the compliance of a vocational education institution with the status of a college, the criteria set out in the part, such as academic vocational education, possibilities for continuing studies at a university in first cycle vocational higher education programmes, cooperation with employers, carrying out applied research, and the proportion of educational programmes, if other than short cycle vocational higher education programmes are also implemented, are also assessed. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U578	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U579	18. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Clarifying the reference in Article 16.2 (on technique), linking with the defined strategic specialisation and development strategy. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U580	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U581	19. - Commission proposal. By analogy - clarify the reference in Article 16.3 (the Centre of Excellence for Art), creating a link with the defined strategic specialisation and development strategy. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U582	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U583	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. By analogy - clarify the reference in Article 16.4 (on professional secondary school), creating a link with the defined strategic specialisation and development strategy. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U584	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U585	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The article ‘Professional higher education institutions and their name’ proposed in the first reading is hereby excluded, given that the status of the institution as a “college” has been added to the existing list in Article 16.1 with the previously examined and supported proposal 16. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U586	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U587	22. - A proposal from Member Arville Asheraden. Suggested in new version... first reading... Article 14a on the college and its operational objectives. The Commission has partially supported, including 17 and 26. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U588	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U589	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. Provision shall also be made for the right of the college to implement professional secondary education programmes, the proportion of the number of programmes. Partly supported by the Commission, including 17 and 26. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U590	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U591	24. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. Provision is made for colleges to carry out applied research. Partly supported by the Commission, included 26. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U592	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U593	25. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. The criteria to be met by colleges shall be laid down. The criteria are specified in the Commission's proposal. This proposal is partly supported and included in the 17th report. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U594	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U595	26. - a proposal from the committee responsible. New version... first reading... Article 14a on the college and its operational objectives. Defines the rights and operational objectives of colleges. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U596	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U597	27. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The wording of the first reading is clarified, which supplements the law with a norm on the rules of college and its content. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U598	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U599	28. - a proposal from the committee responsible. _Other Organiser the text indicating in the College Statute the strategic specialisation of the College. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U600	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U601	29. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. It is proposed to include a norm that the College Regulations specify the fields of study implemented by the College and areas of other educational programmes to be implemented by the College. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U602	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U603	30. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The wording of the first reading, which provides for the short cycle of professional higher education programmes and other programmes to be implemented in the college, shall be excluded. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U604	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U605	31. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The version of the first reading, which provides for the procedure for the development and approval of professional higher education programmes of the college in the rules of college, shall be excluded. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U606	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U607	32. - Commission proposal. Organisation of the first reading... points on the information to be included in the College Statute, including... technical clarification of the numbering of points. This proposal is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U608	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U609	33. - Commission proposal. A more precise version of the first reading in relation to this... that the proposed third paragraph of Article 17 does not apply to colleges under the supervision of the Minister of Education and Science. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U610	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U611	34. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The first paragraph of Article 17.1 ‘Convention of institutions for vocational education’ is clarified, stating that in vocational education ‘the establishment of a collegial advisory body — a convention’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U612	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U613	35. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. Suggested to specify the first reading... In Article 18a, on the College’s advice. In view of the fact that during the discussions, the Commission agreed to establish that the Colleges have a council, the Commission has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U614	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U615	36. - a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science, Anita Muižniece. Proposes to add a new feature to the first reading on the College's advice. In a precise way included in the functions of the college council... Partly supported by the Commission, included 37. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U616	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U617	37. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The new text refers to Article 17.2 of the first reading, entitled ‘College Council’, which provides for the composition and functions of the College Council. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U618	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U619	38. - a proposal from the committee responsible. A new article - on the head of a vocational education institution - shall be added to the law, which shall determine who shall recruit and dismiss the director of the vocational education institution. As regards the Director of the College, its term of office shall be limited to five years and shall be appointed no more than two consecutive times within the College concerned. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U620	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U621	39. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supplements the title of Chapter IV of the Law to include staff of vocational education institution... Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U622	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U623	40. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The addition to the first reading on the staff of the college shall be excluded; the content has been moved to a separate article. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U624	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U625	41. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The wording of the first reading shall be specified in the article on the Head of the Vocational Education and Training Institution. Partly supported by the Commission, included 38. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U626	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U627	42. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The first-reading version of the article on the head of a vocational education institution shall be excluded, provided that the article has already been created in Chapter III of the law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U628	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U629	43. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The title of the new article on ‘Educators’ proposed at first reading is clarified by changing it to ‘The rights and obligations of learners of vocational education and training institutions’. Partly supported by the Commission and included 44. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U630	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U631	44. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Technical specification of the numbering of the article included 43. - the change in the title of the article proposed by the Legal Office. Supported by the Commission. ( The drug is noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U632	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U633	45. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The wording of the first reading is specified for the part of the article on college students, while at the same time determining that students in college are college staff. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U634	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U635	46. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The wording of the first reading is clarified by providing that admission to short cycle professional higher education programmes, recording in the student list, entering data in the register of students and graduates, starting studies at later stages of studies, exclusion from the list of students, as well as rights of students and granting of scholarships are determined by the Law on Higher Education. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U636	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U637	47. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Specifies in the first reading the reference to the college's idea rather than the advice... Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U638	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U639	48. - a proposal from the committee responsible. A new article shall be created concerning the staff of the college, defining which of its staff shall be constituted and laying down the requirements for academic staff. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U640	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U641	49. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. It is proposed to clarify the wording of the first reading to the supplementary part of Article 29.1 ‘Assessment of professional competence acquired outside the formal education system’, given that that Article has been recast since 1 April this year. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U642	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U643	50. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The wording of the first reading to the supplementary part of Article 29.1 ‘Assessment of professional competence acquired outside the formal education system’ shall be deleted as it is recast as from 1 April this year. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U644	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U645	51. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. It is proposed to supplement the law with a new article - on recognition of the results of studies achieved in previous education - by stating that this is done in accordance with the Law on Higher Education. The Commission has partially supported, including 52. - the Commission's proposal. ( Independence: “Let’s vote! Let's vote!' ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U646	Members want to vote in favour of 51. Please call...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U647	Partly supported! I call on you to abstain or vote against.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U648	Please call me! We will vote for 51. - the proposal submitted by the Minister for Education and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 1, for - 50, for - 25. The proposal is not supported. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U649	52. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Clarifying the numbering of the Article 51 proposed in the proposal and adding the title of the article as appropriate, supplements the law with an article on the recognition of the results of studies obtained in previous education. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U650	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U651	53. - a proposal from the committee responsible. An article of the draft law, which provides for amendments to the article on licensing of educational programmes, shall be repealed. The article is excluded because the article... After the amendments to the Law on Vocational Education approved by the Saeima on 3 March of this year... from next year will be recast. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U652	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U653	54. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The first paragraph of the article “Accreditation of a Vocational Education Institution” shall be added, stating: “Assessment of the quality of the college’s activities in the implementation of vocational secondary education, further vocational education and professional development education programmes shall be organised by the State Education Quality Service.” Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U654	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U655	55. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. Three new parts concerning colleges shall be added to the article on the financing of vocational education and training programmes and institutions. Partly supported by the Commission, included in proposal 56.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U656	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U657	56. - a proposal from the committee responsible. This also clarifies the wording... and the wording of the parts of the previous proposal of the Minister for Education and Science. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U658	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U659	57. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. Paragraph 36 of the transitional provisions proposed at first reading shall be excluded, provided that the entry into force of all three draft legislative package laws is planned at the same time. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U660	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U661	58. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The numbering of the first reading of the proposed transitional provision on the drafting of the College Regulations shall be specified. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U662	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U663	And finally, 59. - a proposal from the committee responsible. In view of the change in the wording of the first reading of the draft law, the point in the transitional provisions at first reading, which is no longer relevant to the references referred to therein, is excluded. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U664	Let us start a debate. ( The drug is noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) Let us start a debate. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U665	Colleagues! My speech won't be long, but... We really went through at a very fast pace and supported... We have examined all these 59 proposals, which were for the second reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Vocational Education". It has to be said that the Commission had very serious discussions on a number of points in this law, because in principle, with these amendments, we took out everything that concerns colleges, and that was found inside the Law on Vocational Education, but whether it was successful...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U666	One moment, Mr. Wuzan! Colleagues, Colleagues! ( The drug is noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U667	... has it been done in full? To be honest, I have no such conviction. Has something yet to be done? Therefore, despite the fact that Raivis was very quick to report and we supported it very quickly, I think that the Commission still needs to do a very serious job precisely for the third reading in order to read these so-called tails. And maybe those issues to be discussed... In essence, this one major issue to be discussed is whether to allow colleges implementing short cycle programmes, higher education programmes, and to what extent to allow lower education programmes. The opinion of the Commission was - to allow. But is it very big? That is the unanswered question that probably remains for the third reading. This point of the transitional provision, i.e. the 59th proposal requiring... encourages you to cancel the previous... point 38 of the transitional provisions. I support this, but I do not require a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U668	Thank you. So I closed the debate. No vote was requested. And Members support the opinion of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U669	If the vote is not requested, we have examined all 59 proposals. I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U670	Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Vocational Education”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against - 1, it's not. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U671	The deadline proposed by the Commission for the submission of proposals is 22 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U672	Thank you. So the deadline for proposals is 22 May this year. Dear colleagues, Members Ainars Latkovskis, Juris Pūce, Krišjānis Feldmans, Rihards Kols and Atis Zakaitistovs are asking for a break until 9 a.m. on 19 May this year. ( The transcripts are: “Rightly! ”) ; “After five is already there.” ) So... Do you want to talk about or against? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “ Against”. ) Aldis Gobzems, a Member, has applied to speak against.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U673	Dear Members! You're asking for a break... by which date? But I would urge you not to announce a break and make such a sitting of the Saeima... as it used to be, until the morning. Because when its long sittings are in place, go to the fraction at normal intervals, open the conjacs, drink a little, has a slightly more friendly atmosphere. Otherwise, that hatred between you... It's all like... and that indifference towards people - it is.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U674	Thank you, Mr. Member. I call for the proposal to be discussed, not Members... for each other. Colleagues, let's vote! Please call me! Let us vote for a break before 9 a.m. on May 19! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 75, for - 6, for - 1. So, by 9 a.m. on May 19, this year. Dear colleagues, For today (The Hall of Noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) ... I guess there's nothing you can hear. Please remain silent! To answer Members' questions today. Member of the Minister of the Interior of Sprūde, Možvillo, Pucena, Stepanenko and Svekova “On violations of epidemiological and other rules”. The written responses received are not satisfactory, but Members do not want to ask questions. Member of the Minister of Economics of Sprūde, Možvillo, Pucena, Stepanenko and Svekova on the expected availability of energy, price increases and ways of state support to society in the event of an energy crisis. The written responses received are not satisfactory, but Members do not want to ask questions. Member of the Minister for Health of Sprūde, Stepanenko, Gobzem, Petravičas and Možvillo “On the Amount of Donation of Covid-19 Vaccines purchased”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that due to a busy time, it is not possible to arrive and give an oral answer. Please congratulate the Minister for Health and inform the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Health (Interface: “Uū!” )... Ministers are asked to inform Members of the circumstances in which ministers cannot be present in order to provide answers to Members' questions. So today's answers to Members' questions will not happen. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name For Inese Voika to read the registration results.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U675	Colleagues! Has not registered: Raimonds Bergmanis, Aldis Blumbergs, Boriss Cilevičs, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Andrejs Clementyevs (Interface: “Here!” )... Andrejs Clementyev is... Ieva Krapāne, Armands Krauze, Atis Lejiņš, Romanas Nadiņš and Karina Sprūde. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-12-PT13-2384-U676	Interruption until 9 a.m. on May 19 ( Interruption)
