ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-08-PT13-2391-U1	Dear colleagues, At 15:25 (The Head of the sitting is knocked down with a hammer.) I call for seats to be held in Saeima's meeting room. Let us continue today's work. The agenda, which was not examined at the meeting on 19 May this year, remains one item. Dear colleagues, Changes have been tabled to the agenda adopted by the Bureau, on which we will have to decide. Members Aldis Gobzems, Karina Sprūde, Maris Možvillo, Ramona Petravičs and Eriks Pucens are asking to include in the agenda the referral of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Pensions” to the commissions. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Aldis Gobzems.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-08-PT13-2391-U2	Latvian pensioners! I have to repeat. Those who didn't hear... So, in this Saeima... It is absolutely clear that this power will not decide anything for you... I'm kind of intruding my voice... but you must remember that the elections will take place on the first Saturday of October this year. ( Hopefully it will happen that there will be no fiction again so that no elections will take place.) And then you pensioners remember: if you want to have a EUR 1000 pension, then you have to vote for Gobzem. If you don't want to have 1000 euros; if you want to keep you 150 euros and index your pensions twice a year for 35 Sundays, then continue to vote in favour of Kariņš, continue to vote in favour of this coalition; then continue to watch “Panorama” and believe that the land of happiness here will be 100 years later... The dose should be But if you want to live well today, pay electricity bills, pay for the heat that will be astronomically expensive in the autumn, then you have only one option – you have to vote for Gobzem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-08-PT13-2391-U3	Are there any objections to the amendment of the agenda? ( Interface: Yes, let's vote!) ) Please call us! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Pensions” to be included on the agenda of the sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation is not on the agenda of the sitting. Members Aldis Gobzems, Karina Sprūde, Ramona Petraviča, Maris Možvillo and Ēriks Pucens are asking for changes to the agenda of the sitting - to include the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits”. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? ‘ For” applied to speak Member Aldis Gobzems. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I (Laughter)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-08-PT13-2391-U4	Don't laugh at it! I think that is really feasible in the Republic of Latvia. And it doesn't actually cost so much, and that... Not only the costs are to be calculated today, but the benefits are to be calculated - not even in the long term, but already in a few years. It is my deep belief that Latvia will flourish only when Latvia finally begins to take care of children. And today there are a number of proposals for children. There is one point on which I have started to speak to the public, and I will continue to talk about it every day. I believe that it really costs only 85 million, which is nothing in fact; it is the profits of Latvenergo in one quarter. Let us not talk about possible savings that can be made by reducing public administration or limiting all thefts that are, and so on, but EUR 85 million... we could pay EUR 5000 for every child born. For your child’s mother, it would be a kind of support that can’t be valued in cash. Such support would change Latvia. And just like 100 euros - for every child, not so: for one child - less, for the other - more, for the third maybe more... All children are the same and all children must receive the same price: EUR 100 for every child raised in the family. And this must be done today, and the country can afford it. It may be permitted by the State to do so instead of its vaccination office or any department. The State can afford this instead of various purchases and purchases. After all - not to lift “Jedėnas šiltums”, but to give to children... Only at the moment when the state, the Republic of Latvia, will take care of the children - only then will our country flourish. This is what we have seen for 30 years: no one in this country cares for children, only for gambling, not yet known. And everything goes down because children are not born here. Statistics show that there are twice as many deaths as they are born. If we compare the beginning of the 1990s and 2022, we compare Latvia (Riga), Estonia (Tallin), Lithuania (Vilnius) and Sweden (Stockholm), then we can see how much the population in Riga has decreased and how much has increased in all these other cities that I have named. The difference is dramatic. Because there are countries that take care of children, young people, education, everything else, and there are countries that take care of gambling. There's a country that takes care of Meroni... BIP, by the way... who does not return the property to the Republic of Latvia, despite the fact that the Minister of Justice is Bordāns. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “What connection?” ) Mr. Riekstins, you need to be educated, then you will understand what it is. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “What connection?” ) You also need higher education, Mr. Riekstins.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-08-PT13-2391-U5	Colleagues, thank you, thank you. So do Members have objections to passing the draft law on to the Commission? ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Please call us! We will vote for inclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits” on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 34, against - 47, abstaining - not. Draft legislation is not on the agenda of the sitting. Members Aldis Gobzems, Karina Sprūde, Ramona Petraviča, Maris Možvillo and Eriks Pucens are asking to include the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Social Benefits” on the agenda of the sitting. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Aldis Gobzems.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-08-PT13-2391-U6	Dear Latvian society! This proposal... Although it is clear that 13. The Saeima will reject it today... On the first day when Gobzem will be the Prime Minister, the first decision will be this: EUR 5000 - for every mother who has given birth to a child. On the first day it will be implemented in life and implemented: every woman who will give a citizen of the Republic of Latvia worldwide - 5000 euros! And just try someone here to tell you, madness, children are born there... in such or these families. Dear friends, it's not your business to have children born or not. It's just their business. If someone says that now, children will be born in the families of drunkards... You will be those evaluators who will determine who is a “drinking family”? Will you be the ones who will appreciate who parents are allowed to give children and who are not allowed to?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Perhaps in those “drinking families” the next President of Latvia, perhaps the next Nobel Prize winner, the next billionaire or the next genius or musician – a Latvian with citizenship of the Republic of Latvia. Five thousand euros - it is just 85 million per year, and if someone counts it in money, then he does not understand that this proposal actually brings something much deeper. Its value for this proposal is as follows: fewer abortions. It is as safe as I stand here; I guarantee it is. Its value is that more children will be born in Latvia. How I stand here! Its value is that this proposal - which is about EUR 5000 - will change Latvia, precisely this one and no one else, and I have seen this from the countless letters from women addressed to me. Women - even at my age - say that they are ready to put a child into the world. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstin’s intermediate call sign.) Rextin, listen to me once!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-08-PT13-2391-U7	Do Members object to the inclusion of a draft law on the agenda of the sitting? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstin's intermediate call. Depp. A. Gobzem: “Cretin!” ) Please... Mr Gobzem, I am reprimanding you. Please call me! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Are we not going to give a reprimand to Riekstin?” ; dep. S. Riekstina and dep. A. Gobzem’s intermediate names.) We will vote for inclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits” on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Depp. S. Riekstins: “On this you will get through the mouth!” ) Colleagues, we will vote! Please vote (Interface: Oi, oi, oi!) )... Mr. Riekstin, sit down. Mr. Riekstin, we have to vote! ( Milestones.) Mr Feldman, ask the Member to go back and start work. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. K. Feldman's synopsis; dep. E. Pucken: “What was it, Mr. Riekstin? We need to grow up!” ) Colleagues, I call on everyone to be aware of the fact that we are sitting in the Saeima. Please call me! We will vote for inclusion of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Social Benefits” on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! ( Milestones.) Please get the result! - 34, against - 47, abstaining - not. Draft law has not been included on the agenda of the Saeima sitting. Members Aldis Gobzems, Karina Sprūde, Maris Možvillo, Ramona Petraviča, Eriks Pucens, Ralfs Nemiro, Maris Kučinskis, Kaspars Ģirgens, Edgars Tavars and Viktors Valainis ask to include in the agenda the draft decision on state-paid meals for learners. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Aldis Gobzems.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-08-PT13-2391-U8	Dear Latvian society! This is the second proposal. This is the second proposal that will change Latvia – i.e. paid holiday and breakfast for all children, from kindergarten to the last class in high school. That is what will change Latvia. Five thousand euros for every mother after the birth of a baby - right away, already on the first day - and a holiday for all children! And absolutely all those people in this room who are laughing at having a holiday for their children are either enemies of this country (Interface: “Is it?” )...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-08-PT13-2391-U9	Mr. Gobzem, please don't leak. That's not true. Nobody here is... He's not laughing. Do Members object to the inclusion of the draft decision on the agenda of the sitting? ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Please call us! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft decision on state-paid catering for learners on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 34, against - 47, abstaining - not. The draft decision is not on the agenda of the sitting. On the agenda - consideration of Members' requests. Opinion of the Appeals Board Members Viktors Valainis, Uldis Augulis, Jānis Vucans, Gundars Dauge, Edgars Tavars, Evija Papule, Janīna Jalinska, Māris Kučinskis, Jānis Dūklavs and Didzis Šmits have submitted a request to the Minister of Education and Science Anita Muižniece “Do the Ministry of Education and Science decides on the reorganisation of the school network”. On behalf of the Commission, Ivars Puga, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-08-PT13-2391-U10	Colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! The Commission has examined the request made by Member Viktoras Valaiņa, Ulda Augulis, Jānis Vucanas, Gundars Dauges, Edgars Tatars, Evija Papules, Janina Jalinska, Māra Kučinska, Jānis Dūklavs and Didzis Šmits, Minister of Education and Science Anita Muižniece, “Does the Ministry of Education and Science decide on the reorganisation of the school network” (No. 81/P13) and, by voting five in favour and nine in favour, admitted that Members' request should be rejected, because the particular subject of this issue - the reform of the Aluksne district schools - is currently in the process. The dispute does not lead to the closure of the Pedestrian School, but the Ministry of Education and Science, in part agreeing that the reform is currently taking place at a time of shock and without a full discussion between stakeholders, has asked the county for further clarification. The Ministry has a working group to focus the reform on the interests of pupils and children. The deadline for replying is May this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-08-PT13-2391-U11	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-08-PT13-2391-U12	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, This question has been topical for some time now. This is particularly relevant in Alūksne, of course. But I would like to say that it is not just in Aluksne. And so when we prepared this request, we asked the question: does the Ministry of Education and Science decide on the reorganisation of the school network? The Ministry of Education and Science does not decide in itself on the reorganisation of the school network of each municipality, but the Ministry of Education and Science firmly sets out the preconditions for why, what are the principles for funding schools, what are the principles for teachers' salaries, what are the principles for investments. And in this case, it can definitely be said that all the preconditions for forcing the municipality of Aluksne to take these decisions are definitely there. If we look at this particular situation, then... In Aluksne, this reform of schools, I believe, violates any logical principles of how such reforms should be organised at all. The whole process takes place without public involvement. When national attention is given to it, then theoretically it is organized... and citizens, parents' councils are invited to various negotiations. At a time when this attention disappears, such decisions on the reorganisation of schools are immediately driven through the municipality, without listening to the parents or the people of the territory in which the schools are located. All this is ignored. After both the Ministry and our involvement, this issue is now in some way... Some discussions have begun. But, colleagues, here would be a place to look at this overall background. The government is doing nothing at the moment... and, on the contrary, encourage the closure of rural schools. More than that. I will also tell you later how it affects the government's offer at the moment; how it affects not only rural schools, but also Riga, Pierīga schools, and how it affects teachers' pay. At the moment, according to the materials of the Cabinet of Ministers, various information reports, protocol decisions, it is planned that the increase of the budget from the state budget... One student... Not planned. In other words, it is offered that educators pay and salary increase... the municipalities themselves must in principle seek out their own budgets. Colleagues, we referred to this situation already at the time of the adoption of the budget, when we voted in favour of the multiannual budget. In the multi-annual budget regarding the increase in salaries of educators there was no line recorded - no one! In particular, in the case of the 17 per cent inflation, which is currently the case, the government expects that all expenditure relating to the increase in the salaries of educators will be covered by the municipalities. The fact that about 50 schools are reorganized this year and six schools are closed in no way gives an answer to how to raise wages in Jelgava, for example, where nothing changes, where everything has already been done, and in many other municipalities of Latvia. No answer is given to the teachers, because the state budget does not provide for this, as well as the legislative documents of the Ministry of Education and Science, various protocol decisions of the Cabinet do not provide for this. That, in my opinion, is not right. The trade union of education and science workers of Latvia also points to this. Colleagues, we have a number of municipalities - and in this case large municipalities - where, for objective reasons, no reorganisation of the school network is possible at the moment. On the contrary, there are several cities where the construction of new schools is concerned. We can, of course, be pleased with this trend, but, for example, in the case of the municipality of Aluksne... Alūksne municipality cannot even carry out infrastructure development projects at the moment in schools, which are not even covered by this reform. They cannot go further by attracting investment until they have optimised the school network - also for schools not covered and schools that meet all the national criteria. Unfortunately, this is the order that has been established in Latvia. In my view, it is only to stimulate the closure of rural schools to stimulate the concentration of the rural population in cities, and we can only hope that they will concentrate in cities. These rural people are likely to leave Latvia, as many have already done. Colleagues, I would ask you to pay particular attention to these circumstances. Also for the new education offered by the Ministry of Education and Science... the remuneration model. According to the information sent to us by the Latvian Education and Science Workers' Union on 7 June... By letter sent on 7 June... I have no reason not to believe that. The current information is that teachers of Ādažu, Ķekava, Mārupe, Olaines, Salaspils district will not be paid higher, but on the contrary – the rates will decrease. And it's all called equalization. All the educators' salaries... pay reform is currently based on equalisation, based on optimisation. Optimisation that is objectively not possible. It is not possible to cover the needs of our teachers, who are in our education system, to the extent necessary. A number of non-governmental organisations point to this. The years shall be specified. This is what the educators have pointed out to you, but the government ignored it - both when the budget was adopted and now pretending not to see these facts, pretending that they have nothing to do with the reorganisation of the Alūksne district school network. But it is the government that has done nothing - it has done nothing! - to address this situation. One of the previous requests on the same subject - the reorganisation of the Alūksne district school network - for us the Minister of Education and Science (namely, colleagues, you can all get acquainted with this document) wrote that she is not going to change anything in the current situation - nothing! Colleagues, worse still, if we had a point on the criteria for the school network... The point meant that the external land borders of the European Union... In the border area for schools in secondary education class 10-12 has a lower criterion for the minimum number of students, i.e. 25 students. Currently from the draft regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers this item 6... it's just gone. There is no point to defend these border schools. It's not easy, it's gone, and everyone pretends that it's not a problem. On the Belarusian border, on the Lithuanian border, on the Russian border - where will these children learn, colleagues? What is the solution? We are moving forward with the model of school teachers' salaries, without offering it any real financial resources. What is being offered is not attainable. It forces municipalities to make these rural schools hard by going, so to say, the easiest solution, not to think about those people who live in these rural areas, where it is the only opportunity to still work in these rural areas... It would be worth listening to the opinion of the public. Well, like pickets, in Aluksne. Among the picketers was a young woman who regretted that if there is no school in Young Ann, her children would learn to go to Gulbene Municipality: “If it happens, I will also have to look for work closer to the children.” It's very sad that unwise schooling wants to be cut off. This will result in the loss of everything, as pupils and young people now form a very active public life with their community in New Zealand. Colleagues, and there are thousands of such stories. If we don't offer a solution, if we don't stop forcing these schools to close... This pressure is taking place at various levels - both by stopping the development of the infrastructure of other schools and by forcing the municipalities themselves to deal with this issue of remuneration. I do not understand how blind can be, and here is no more a story about rural municipalities, but also about large municipalities. If in large municipalities the network of schools is not optimised so that there is no more, there is nothing to optimise, where they will have a resource that can still be optimised! I think that this government policy is not well thought out, and it is fully understandable to understand the picket organized by the Latvian Education and Science Workers Trade Union to draw attention to these issues. If there was someone that could come and explain to me today why Dignified teachers in this situation would have to reduce their pay. Well, why? Is there no inflation? The cost of a decent life will remain at the previous level? At present, this is the offer placed in government. Why should we take out of school retention in the border? We, the Saeima, have a whole sub-committee in which it seems that we are dealing with these issues. We also have the Minister coming to the commissions, she says she's in the course and she's in the fight, and she deals with these issues everywhere in the Saeima. Government documents do not answer these questions... No law, no MK regulations, no different information messages... There are only empty speeches. It's just empty talk of someone thinking about something. The sub-committee of Latgale looked at the issue of the liquidation of individual schools, for example, in Preili Municipality. Where, then, have these solutions remained? Everyone said... The Minister of Education also came to us, the Commission on Petitions, and answered things quite different from what she wrote in her own letter. This, of course, gives me hope that something is going in the right direction. But now I get a letter from the Latvian Education and Science Workers Trade Union that... I think they are quite in the course of what is happening in the Ministry of Education and Science (I want to believe in it), and they clearly say that all these issues... None are addressed, and no solution is proposed. On the contrary, a larger barrack is created, and teachers are placed on one side against the other. One is richer, the other is poor, so let's get out of those richest. What is it about approach, colleagues?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I believe that this demand should be supported, it is in the right place, and it is not necessary to deal with hypocrisy, considering that, as you see, everything here is fine with the education system. I call everyone to go and talk to those educators. Don't be afraid, don't stay in the house immediately, come and talk to the educators when they're here at the Saeima. Tell them what your offer is, tell them about those rural schools, go to those regions where their schools are closed, and meet their people in reality. Go to those teachers and make decisions as soon as all the cameras are gone. New Unity, they were you... you drive the municipality of Alūksne. Immediately, as the cameras disappeared, it immediately made decisions and forgot everything, all the arrangements. Conservatives, this also applies to you. You did it together, let's say so. I call for this request to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-08-PT13-2391-U13	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-08-PT13-2391-U14	I would just remind you that this request from Members was rejected by the Commission in its assessment of the circumstances.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-08-PT13-2391-U15	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for Member Viktors Valaiņa, Ulda Augulis, Jānis Vucanas, Gundars Dauges, Edgars Tatars, Evija Papules, Janina Jalinska, Māra Kučinska, Jānis Dūklavs and Didzis Šmits, Minister of Education and Science Anita Muižniece, “Does the Ministry of Education and Science decide on the reorganisation of the school network”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 31, for - 42, for - 1. The request is rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda of the sitting has been examined. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name for reading the registration results for Dagmarai Beitnerei-Le Gallai as soon as they are ready.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-08-PT13-2391-U16	No Members registered: Aldis Blumbergs, Boriss Cilevičs, Jānis Dūklavs, Marija Golubeva, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Andrejs Klementyevs, Ivans Klementyevs, Ieva Krapāne, Atis Lejiņš, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Linda Medne, Ramona Petravičs, Ivans Ribakovs, Dace Rukšāne-Ščipčinska and Inese Voika. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-08-PT13-2391-U17	Thank you. So I closed my session on 19 May this year. Mrs. Winteres, we can start working in four, or too soon? Five pairs? Four of us? Thank you. So we'll start the session on June 2 in two minutes at 4 p.m. There is one item on the agenda.
