ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U1	Good evening, dear colleagues! We started the third remote emergency sitting of the Saeima on 27 January 2022. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft Act ‘Law on measures to reduce exceptional increases in energy prices’, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Ilze Indricksone. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U2	Good evening, colleagues, again! Let us consider the proposals. There are 11 proposals in total. 1. - the proposal by Members Svekova and Stepanenko. It is envisaged that the reduction in the fee for electricity system services should not be applied from January, as was originally the case in the draft law, but from 1 December. The Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U3	Thank you. Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U4	Colleagues! The proposal concerns the reduction of the electricity system service charge and its application to end-user charges for system services for a period starting from 1 December 2021. From annotation and from discussions within the Committee on Budget and Finance (tax) we have found that this draft law on the household... 56,000 households will be affected by the stabilisation of the economic situation. In fact, this is not a large number, especially given that households on the poverty line or on the low income threshold are well over 56 000. It is this segment that already received sufficiently high bills in December, and these high bills are actually both materially, psychologically and morally very much affecting the mood of society and also the general situation of the population... it is economic, because it is, of course, those citizens who receive lower incomes, also very, very high-cost money, and they are very concerned about whether they will be able to pay electricity bills and whether they will then be able to buy food. Because the bills... and the crisis, the energy crisis, came into force already in December, then Julia Stepanenko and I also offer to start this crisis from 1 December. Another very important thing that concerns both this draft law and the situation with the energy crisis in general is that the electricity system services and its charges account for a relatively small part. According to the calculations, if I am not mistaken, it is only up to 25 percent, or even less... make an invoice. Consequently, the exemption from this payment is a very small percentage of the aid, which is indeed very important and very necessary for households. As a result, that... taking into account the measures adopted by other countries and the envisaged support measures for both households, citizens and businesses, Julia Stepanenko and I believe that the availability of this facilitated service should start from 1 December - without the payment of system services to final consumers. I therefore ask my colleagues, Members of the Saeima, to think not only about their wallet and their financial situation, but also about the economic situation of people and to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U5	Thank you. I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mrs Indricksones... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U6	The Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U7	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the motion of Members Svekova and Stepanenko! Please, let's vote! There's no one for - 31, no one for - 47, no one for - 47. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U8	2. - Member Mozhville's proposal. It is envisaged to limit these reductions to electricity end-users with a contract price of more than EUR 0,10 per kilowatt-hour. In the Commission this (Speak Break.) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U9	Let's start a debate. The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U10	Good evening, chair of the sitting! Good evening, colleagues! Good evening, viewers, listeners! Yes, this is already the third time today, when I call on my colleagues, however, to suspect that, by supporting the proposals made by the government, we are creating unfair competition between electricity consumers, because we are creating a situation where some electricity consumers will face a very favourable price for another company, a similar company, working in the same field or sector, whose only difference is this contract with the electricity supplier. This will lead to inequalities in competition with each other. However, I would call on my fellow Members to think again and to support my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U11	Debate... continue the debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins... a request to apply for a debate in due time. ( Pause) You can't hear me!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U12	I took part in this debate as soon as possible, because I listened to the proposal's explanation until the last time to understand the substance. Unfortunately, although I have been working professionally in energy - with energy issues - for more than 10 years, I do not understand the substance of this proposal, because this proposal... So if we look at what this... This is a system service, and the system service is in no way linked to commercial contracts. These are two completely different things. Perhaps, however, the proposer can once again explain what he had meant. Once again, this is a distribution service and a distribution service which is not in any way linked to sales contracts. These are two different things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U13	We are continuing the debate. The name to the Member, Maris Mozhville, for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U14	Thank you. I will try to explain more precisely to Mr Zarins. Every consumer of electricity receives an invoice showing both amounts, both for supply and electricity. In this case, if an electricity consumer who receives an invoice with an electricity price of 7.1 cents per kilowatt-hour and is compensated for by transmission costs, this final amount is 7.1 cent. What, in turn, has a contract on electricity price of 20 cents per kilowatt-hour and also compensates for the supply costs... That means the final bill is 7 cents for one, 20 cents for the other. So my proposal was to unify... plus minus the same electricity bills... the total amount, then also the compensation for transmission costs, starting at 10 cents per kilowatt-hour. I am referring to the total invoice in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U15	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U16	The Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U17	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - The Member's proposal, Mr Mozhville! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U18	3. - a proposal from Members Nemir, Možville, Sprude and Petravič. It is foreseen that the full purchase and capacity components for electricity will be abolished from 1 March 2022. The Commission (Sound Break) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U19	Let's start a debate. The name to Member Ralph Nemir. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U20	Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting! The very important thing that we see in this draft law, however, if we look at this solution in the context of the compulsory procurement component - so the government has tried to wipe out this problem under the guise and to address it with the resources of all our taxpayers. During the election, a huge quantity of candidates for Members, the party promised to move towards the elimination of the mandatory procurement component. This issue has also been recorded in the government declaration. And what can we see when we look at the bill? That in fact the government offers this mandatory procurement component from our taxpayers' money now generously pay to those who have cheated, not cheated, and so on. So, in fact, we are no longer talking about reducing the amount of the compulsory procurement component, but we are already talking about full coverage. So where can the beneficiary of an OIC be even more happy than if he is paid by the State for all this fee. I thought it was either an error or... I do not believe that the government, and in particular the head of the government, which has previously been a minister for the economy, has been working on the green component, could try to wipe out all the problem in such a brutal way. In our own way, we have proposed to deal with this issue once and for all, at least within the framework of this draft law, which means, also in the context of an emergency situation, that this component of compulsory procurement should cease and be withdrawn from payments to both economic operators and citizens. It is now, after the fight against the OIC as a whole, a small component, to be acknowledged, it is true, but it is still very important. It is even more important that this political component, all of which was in their pre-election promises, has proved to be of great importance. Here is the hour of truth. So it is possible to deal with this issue now, the draft law contains such a provision, and so it is time to resolve... On the other hand, if we do not solve this, then we really start sponsoring this component of compulsory procurement from taxpayers' money in full. In my opinion, this is a ridicule about Latvian society and Latvian entrepreneurs, who have to pay these bills. So the proposal is on our side and it is the solution. This hot bitter is once and for all, to be thrown out, and to think about supporting and subsidising green energy, I think, in that sense, it is very sensible from the European recovery funds. This is, of course, a matter for discussion within the Commission, but now is the time to resolve this in full. Therefore, our proposal provides for the termination of the mandatory procurement component, not the secret... secretly, such a gullible payment from all of our bills and then pretending that we have solved this issue. Nothing's solved! On the contrary, all of this is to be paid out of our common taxes. There is no public money, it is our total money paid by taxpayers, and we should not hide these payments under any other compensatory mechanisms. Nothing needs to be compensated here, this issue must be stopped once! Thank you. Please support...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U21	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U22	Colleagues, I support the motion made by Members Nemir, Možville, Sprude and Petraviča, and I believe that it is worth reminding the other Members of the Saeima of their promises made both in 2018 in the run-up to the elections and now. That is why I am asking very much for support for this proposal. It must also be understood that, respectively, both taxpayers and our children and grandchildren will pay the debts that the state now borrows to cover these expenses. That is why I also support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U23	The name to Member Ralph's never died for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U24	Thank you to Mrs Švekova for her support. I really forgot to touch one of those things, but Mrs Svelova reminded me very, very well and very diligently. So, the most important thing. All this generous support that is currently being offered, including the secret payment of OICs from our tax money, is already in the process of debt. Mrs Svekova pointed out quite precisely that, in fact, all this is already at the expense of money. So, in principle, today's OIC payments to us by the government offer to pay at the expense of our children. The next generations will have to repay this payment. The other thing is very important in the context of this proposal. A number of officials, including from Brussels, have already mentioned to us that this debt repayment... Let us say that expenditure, or, to be precise, expenditure on debt servicing, can go up because, at the moment, money resources are sufficiently cheap in international markets, but that will not be the case for long. It will, of course, not be a long resort, and we, as taxpayers, will still have to pay more for debt service. That's why we should be very careful... and our proposal deals directly with the issue of payment of this money. Let us not allow debt-making for our future generations! I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U25	The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U26	Thank you for your word. If I correctly follow the news and nothing has changed in the composition of the Cabinet of Ministers and in the status of the Cabinet of Ministers, then there is still an official document, which everyone can get to know on the Cabinet's website under the department of Ministers, “Documents”. This document is a declaration by Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš' Cabinet of Ministers under the heading "Best Business Environment in the Baltic States"... Paragraph 30... And I will read: ‘Let us eliminate the components of compulsory procurement in accordance with the rule of law, by preventing these payments from other financial sources and by making them available to the public budget and citizens in the most economically and financially advantageous way. Let us assess the legality of establishing and implementing a mandatory procurement component." Colleagues, if we, as employers of the Cabinet of Ministers, believe that the Cabinet of Ministers can now say that, no, we leave or in some way compensate otherwise, then forgive me, but these workers must be dismissed immediately because they do not comply with the obligations. On the other hand, if we are voting against the liquidation of the OIC system, perhaps we have to give up ourselves because we have given the task of staff who cannot fulfil it simply because our vote will be different at the moment. Colleagues, may we, however, stick to what we have promised our constituents and put an end to this system? I call on my colleagues to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U27	I closed the debate. Please explain on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U28	3. the Commission did not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U29	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - the motion from Members Nemir, Mozhville, Sprude and Petravič! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U30	4. - the proposal by Members Svekova and Stepanenko. Like their previous proposal, they intend to derogate for a month and apply this time a reduction in the fee for the mandatory procurement and capacity component from 1 December. This proposal was not supported by the Commission either.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U31	Thank you. Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U32	Colleagues, given that the majority has just rejected the proposal to finally abolish the components of compulsory electricity procurement, my proposal, together with Julia Stepanenko, provides for the inclusion of facilitated conditions, from 1 December onwards, because bills, as I said, have grown up by December for consumers... And not only for consumers, for households, for businesses - for every consumer, the amount of electricity bill has increased very, very strongly. As I pointed out in the explanatory memorandum to the previous proposal, both the compulsory procurement component and the distribution section on the invoice total 27 per cent of the total invoice, the rest being the electricity and taxes themselves. And taking another month to support it is only correct and also appropriate. It must also be borne in mind that other countries of the European Union, which are much more prosperous and where the population is absolutely at a very different level in prosperity - such as Germany, Italy, France - provided for support measures from December onwards. It is also important to note the very wide range of support services offered by Estonia to its citizens to deal with the energy crisis. It clearly puts the people of Latvia, Latvian households, in a very difficult and uncompetitive situation. I therefore ask my colleagues to draw attention to this, to realise that we are already late in adopting these amendments, and we are already late in providing for a support mechanism. I believe that what we are proposing with this draft law is not enough, not comprehensive and is not a package of measures that will ensure competitiveness for Latvian households and that will help people to avoid poverty. Therefore, please support our proposal and vote in favour, giving people a little less burden in connection with the increase in electricity prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U33	The name to Member Ralph Nemir. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U34	Thank you, honourable leader of the Saeima sitting. Looking at this proposal... I think it is more symbolic from the point of view of such a political symbol. And that symbol is linked in this case to the date on which we are at the moment - it is already the end of January. A rapid rise in electricity and gas prices has taken place long enough. The manager of the government comes, says on TV and other possible resources that he expects something, that there will be some solutions. As a former Minister of Economics, of course, he understood energy very well and could come with an initiative and deal with it more quickly. It is now the end of January, there will be a second two months now, when winter is over and this issue is actually irrelevant. So, I think, the proposal put forward by our colleagues is symbolic, thus demonstrating the government's capacity, speed, interest in dealing with the problem in a quick, fast way. From this point of view, of course, the proposal is, retroactively, to shake the finger directly by the legislator to the government. And quite rightly, because... How long should I wait? Or maybe it was a deliberate move... The Minister for Finance has, of course, seen VAT revenue in the cash register, of course. I think he's very happy with this section, but the citizen and the businessman who sees their bills... and therefore are also less competitive with other countries, precisely our Baltic countries and our neighbours, because governments have managed to resolve these issues more quickly there. So, yes, this is a good proposal to show how our government... how quickly it is able to deal with the issues. Can another working group be set up again, then the working group and the working group sub-groups, the operational groups and any other or different groups be set up... Then, in the end, we see in the meetings of the Cabinet that the Minister... one and the other... or other ministers say that, here, experts - all this is wonderful, but we make decisions. That's right. Its only section is that the Head of Government obviously lacks the courage to deal with these issues quickly enough, to take decisions, to discuss it in one meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers and to resolve it. That is why we have also delegated a very wide range of powers to the Cabinet to take rapid decisions, but the opposite is happening: huge long discussions, decisions that decisions taken at the Cabinet meeting must be taken on another day, and the same thing happens in the coming days, moving the deadline even further. These solutions have already been on the table a week ago, but we should have supported the fact that we will be dealing with these issues in a week's time, when we have reached a final agreement. You don't have to deal with this for so long. Look, where is the direct evidence here that this issue should have been solved much faster, much faster. People paid the bills already in November, already in December. This is the end of January. One more bill will be here right now. Champion is just fantastic! Just fantastic! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U35	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U36	The Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U37	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - the motion of Members Svekova and Stepanenko! Please, let's vote! - 31, 50, abstain - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U38	5. - the proposal by Members Svekova and Stepanenko. It also provides for a reduction in the cost of natural gas consumed as of 1 December, contrary to what is provided for in the draft law - from 1 January. I would like to point out that during the meeting of the Commission, information was provided that changes in natural gas tariffs came into force only on 1 January and in December the tariff was the same as in summer. The Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U39	Thank you for your explanation. Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U40	As far as I remember my personal bill that I received for gas, in December it grew to me, not decreased. The increase was quite tangible. I don't know what they explain or how they explain to ministers and secretaries, but every citizen on his or her skin... and see in its invoice and wallet the amounts that come together with the energy crisis. Consequently, a proposal was also made to reduce the financial burden faced by households with regard to the overall increase in energy... I could already discuss the date from which it would be better... or who grew less or more, but I think that, given the overall economic situation, it will only be normal for citizens to be supported from December onwards, because, depending on what kind of support (as the public space sounds) even low-income households and pensioners have received... It reflected that the pensioner received 34 cents for energy costs. It seems to me that the instruments proposed by the government so far cannot be described as nothing other than ridicule for the population. I very much hope that this draft law, when it goes to the stage of implementation and adopts the relevant regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers in order to ensure the implementation of this law, will not be guilty of the same thing as the previously announced support for pensioners - 34 cents of additional support. I would like to say that the implementation of a clear and understandable policy of support is the only instrument for ensuring social stability in the country and ensuring people's confidence in the government, because very often there is a huge gap between statements and reports that problems are being addressed, that solutions are being proposed and that resources are also found suddenly in the budget. And the gap is both in time and in real support to the population. It would not be a good thing to turn it into ridicule, an additional administrative burden and a formal approach that will result in minimal support for people who are unable to pay their bills. Therefore, please support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U41	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U42	The Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U43	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - the motion of Members Svekova and Stepanenko! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U44	6. - the proposal by Members Svekova and Stepanenko. It is envisaged to apply a fixed-term reduction of value added tax to the five-interest rate of various... all types of energy used for heating. The Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U45	Thank you. Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U46	Colleagues! As we know, not only gas and not just electricity is chosen as the type of heating, but also heating is provided to several households and also to several businesses by means of wood materials or wood, logs and so on. Consequently, the proposal provides for a reduced rate of value added tax, which has already been discussed by the Government and the Ministry of Economics at an initial stage, proposed to apply a reduced rate of value added tax to the energy sources concerned. What is the basis for the proposal to reduce value added tax? Timely, of course, cut. The reduction in fixed-term value added tax could cost around EUR 215.5 million. I would like to remind the Government that over the last year or one and a half two years, the Government invested 340 million airBaltic in the rescue plan. The government provided for a sharp increase in remuneration for a number of officials. The government also provided for the construction of 148 million Liepaja prison. Repair for the farm building is planned for 34 million. So I can say that the resource that could be used to provide a solution to the energy crisis in the economy... there is only a question of the desire and the purposes for which taxpayers' money is spent. Another thing is that it is 70 per cent of the bills that are produced and made up of energy prices that are the basic price and value added tax, which also form one of the most important components, taking into account also the price increase. It is therefore considered that a reduced rate of value added tax could be an effective instrument to ensure the least burden for businesses, households and individuals alike. It must also be said that a number of European Union countries - such as Germany, Italy and France - are using reduced tax rates and tax instruments to ensure that their economies are competitive in the face of the energy crisis. It should also be said that Poland itself refuses to close the coal plant because it provides electricity to households and prevents the energy crisis from expanding. Thus, even contrary to the European Union's ecological, green policy, Poland, as an independent country, chooses an independent and well-thought-out policy. I believe that it is precisely the reduced rate of tax that could be an instrument that is easier and easier to administer to replace the benefits granted. In order to ensure less burden for citizens, I propose to support this proposal and to apply a reduced rate of value added tax for the period from 1 February of this year to the end of the year, thus supporting the economy and the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U47	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U48	There was no wide-ranging debate in the Commission on this issue and the Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U49	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - the proposal put forward by Members Svekova and Stepanenko! Please, let's vote! - 31, against - 48, refrains - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U50	7. - the proposal by Members Svekova and Stepanenko. Provision is made for limited exceptions to the application of the Law on Excise Duty for the period from 1 February to 31 December 2022 for energy services and actual energy. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U51	Thank you. Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U52	Colleagues, the offer of the reduced rate of excise duty will affect companies more directly, and for business it would be very tangible support in the context of the energy crisis, and Latvia already had experience of using the relevant instrument or the temporary reduction of excise duty. This took place in 2010 - a measure linked to the previous crisis. It should be noted that we read in the public space that Latvenergo, for example, will invest EUR 8 million in the creation of a solar park in Lithuania. Is it much or little - eight million, when a state-owned company invests in the creation of a neighbouring solar park? It is understandable that the creation of a solar park is a good thing, and also ecological and green energy is a way of investment, but it must be understood whether Latvenergo will also do it... and is there a clear action plan, what will Latvenergo do here in Latvia, as well as these eight million solar parks in Lithuania will be reflected in Latvian citizens' bills, taxes and economic competitiveness? Unfortunately, it is not clear to me from the information available what are the considerations why Latvenergo invests eight million in Lithuania for the creation of a solar park and in the Lithuanian company as a subsidiary of Latvenergo leaks these investments. Will the availability of energy be ensured for Latvian households as well... and when? But unfortunately, today and here in Latvia is in crisis, the crisis is affecting companies. Lithuania supports its companies in solving the energy crisis, Estonia will also use a more powerful package to ensure the competitiveness of the economy and such as cushions for its companies and households, but unfortunately, from the proposals of the Ministry of Economics and the government for the time being we are implementing the benefit policy. I am not saying that benefits are not needed, but the benefit policy without clear and understandable solutions to global problems is short-term. All the measures proposed - this is a transfer of borrowed taxpayers' money into benefits, without solving the problem of substance, without creating a competitive economy and without creating sufficient support, without ensuring competitiveness for Latvian companies. This is the greatest deficiency and the most incomplete part of this draft law. A reduction in excise duty would be an instrument directly for businesses, for companies to support and ensure their competitiveness, so please also support our proposal and reduce the rate of excise duty over time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U53	Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U54	Good evening, everybody! I will explain the situation with solar panels why Latvenergo invests in these projects in Lithuania and Latvia. The nature of the matter is very simple. We have already had our OIC, it hasn't been the case for Lithuanians. They are currently doing something similar to OIC’s story, as we were with solar panels. In principle, it is a cross-subsidised business, Latvenergo simply takes advantage of the opportunity and will try to earn more at its expense. In parallel, as they are working throughout the Baltic market and we see all this green course, it is important to build this green energy portfolio, then they also do it where it is profitable and where they still pay for it. I think that we are doing the right thing in Latvia, that we do not do it, because we are already on this raven and so painful. That's all, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U55	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U56	The Commission was informed that, in addition to these proposals, which are in the draft law as short-term support measures, the Cabinet has also accepted and directed medium-term support measures to mitigate the impact of future price increases on households, especially in heating, supporting diversification of energy availability and promoting the direct replacement of fossil fuels with renewable energy sources. Such information was provided to the Commission and the Commission did not support this specific proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U57	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - the motion of Members Svekova and Stepanenko! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U58	8 / 8 - a proposal from Member Petravičs. Provision is made for replacing the figure and the word ‘75’ in the draft law wherever it is ‘EUR 20’. This is linked to the cost of aid of EUR 20 per month for persons receiving various types of pensions, including compensation for survivors, and the total amount of aid, as we say, would be increased from EUR 20 to EUR 75 per month. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U59	Thank you. Let's start a debate. The name of Member Ramona Petraviča. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U60	Dear President, Dear colleagues, On the need to support our seniors, I have made proposals since November, including in the budget package. The proposals I have made have always been rejected, and assistance is now well overdue. The government tried to buy back with a €20 benefit for vaccinated pensioners, thus trying to include it as aid and aid for balancing the rise in electricity prices. This failed, and the elders themselves were not satisfied with the fact that such seniors were divided into groups - the good and the bad; who deserve support and who do not pay it. As the support measures have been laid down and I have previously proposed a lump sum payment of EUR 300, taking into account the specific nature of this draft law, my proposal provides for the payment of monthly aid of EUR 75 for a person who is a beneficiary of an old age, disability or survivor's pension, a beneficiary of a disability benefit or a beneficiary of a benefit for persons with disabilities in need of care. The government's current support package for seniors and people with disabilities is really ridiculous and comparable to pocket money for students. It must be clear that, in the current economic situation, EUR 20 per month will not achieve the financial security and confidence that the government expects. The position of the government must be much more favourable, even for these two reasons, that the community disproportionately affects this group of people, from the lack of access to health services to the very low chance of additional income. Supporting the proposal would allow these people to cover the unforeseen costs of the Covid-19 and at least to the end of the emergency to provide a greater amount of livelihood, access to masks, disinfectants, medicines. A general rise in prices for goods and services is the second reason. I have already pointed out a worrying trend in economic indicators, which has a direct impact on the income of the most vulnerable. Seniors, people with disabilities are often unable to afford supplies of goods or to immerse themselves in the cost of medicines, for example. In such a situation, they must in principle live in a cold apartment, saving on heating and electricity costs, or choose between normal food or disease. EUR 20 is in no way capable of covering the gap, so if the proposal is rejected, these people are really exposed to poverty. As we know, seniors are very open-ended communal payers, so a person will choose to pay the communal payments first and then let him go to the store to buy food for himself. The Latvian Pensioners Federation has also asked for support of at least EUR 200. Hence, they also need to be listened to, for they know best their needs and the expenses that have increased. Please support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U61	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U62	The Commission did not support this proposal. I just want to remind you of the information that is available to everyone that the amount of housing allowance and the coefficient applied directly to single seniors are more than double, and all disadvantaged seniors are also in a supportive position and receive a monthly reduction in the cost of electricity of EUR 15. The Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U63	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - The proposal of Member Ramon Petravič! Please, let's vote! - 31, 50, abstain - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U64	9. - a proposal from Member Petravičs. It is envisaged to replace the whole text of the draft law with the word ‘EUR 50’ with the word ‘EUR 125’. That would apply to the allowance... support an increase in support for children and students, young people who continue to study up to the age of 24. The Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U65	Thank you. Let's start a debate. The name of Member Ramona Petraviča. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U66	Colleagues! On several occasions I have made proposals to support families with children at a time when the prices of electricity, heating, food and services have risen rapidly. It is good that, at last, the government, although very slow and timid, as a result of pressure from the opposition Members, comes at least with some solution for families with children. I have previously made a proposal to pay a lump sum of EUR 500, but also in view of the specific nature of this draft law... So my proposal is to provide support of EUR 125 per month for every child, because, also taking into account last year... one-off aid of €500. Such a proposal was adopted last February on the basis of the need specifically of families with children to overcome the consequences of the Covid-19 and the devastating effects on family income and the ability to provide children. Then the morbidity rate was about 550, now the cumulative rate is over 3000, the impact of Covid-19 on families has not decreased. Moreover, 62 000 people are denied employment and not because they do not want to work or they have worked badly, but because the government has decided to deny them the opportunity to make a living. They also have children. Children who need to be fed daily should be allowed to go to school. The consumer price index has increased sharply. The index value has increased by 8.5 percent in comparison with February last year. Looking back at the time of the crisis, 2008 it was 6.3 percent. With such an increase in inflation, the budget of Latvian families may drop so far that they are likely to give up their thoughts in the near future about family growth and precisely for financial reasons. It will also severely limit the needs of families, especially children, who will not be able to meet even to the extent they were previously. It should be recalled that price increases do not apply only to sensitive goods, but also to gas, electricity, food and transport. Support mechanisms of EUR 50 per month to reduce the impact of energy price increases are not enough at a time when families have children, parents have reduced incomes, jobs have lost because many sectors are closed, many are working in a survival regime that also has a significant impact on pay. Many family members have been forced to leave all or part of their jobs. Family maintenance costs are rising. In addition to all this, it should be borne in mind that it is governments that not only reduce their income but also have to spend a significant part of their income, such as the purchase of tests, to attend various events or even cafes and the like, due to unthinking, regressive policies. Such a drop in income is most difficult for families with children who need to provide a family to the same extent as before, because the child cannot be told: you will eat less today than yesterday or you will not eat at all. The current support mechanisms do not really work as a non-negotiable minimum, as families do not have sufficient income to be able to apply them at all. Please support this proposal to pay EUR 125 per month to families. In total, in these four months, it would have drawn up support - EUR 500. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U67	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U68	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to point out that such information from Mrs Petravičs did not even sound in the Commission and was not discussed... for the purchase of tests for families at their own expense. I would like to remind you that, from January, it is essential to increase family state allowances for large families, which are also additional support for this energy price increase crisis. The Commission did not support this specific proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U69	Thank you for your comment. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - The proposal by Member Petravič! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U70	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from Members Plant and Valaiņš. It provides for the payment of a lump sum allowance of EUR 200 to the pension beneficiaries for the same period, from January to April. The Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U71	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U72	Very respectful Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, First of all, of course, I should like to thank the coalition that, despite the fact that it has now been about four months since, in principle, its situation with price increases and the existence of this crisis has already been estimated, there is finally some solution. And if it could be objectively said, since it's been Wednesday, let's say that, such euphoria... we can already start to make some estimates today, what will then be the concrete meaning of this proposal and how it will affect the group of citizens that it will most directly cover. I'm not going to talk about those many groups at the moment... to this proposal... to which it will not apply, but families with children and seniors will benefit from this decision. To be honest, it's better than anything. It is, of course, to be welcomed that at least some step has been taken. However, on this highly sensitive issue, which concerns seniors, I would like to say that, over this week, there have also been many discussions, including with seniors themselves, seniors' organisations, and we have analysed this issue a little bit, what is meant by the EUR 20 and EUR 20 offered by these governments already in the previous EUR 20 allocated to pensioners who have been vaccinated? In essence, for a very large number of seniors, it will have a minimal impact on the expenses they have incurred today, because even in a single-room apartment, even in small apartments in the regions, these costs for electricity... which people received in these first months... It's December... Now, right now, the January bills will come... It was extraordinary! Regarding not only the increase in energy costs, but also all the other kind of cost, the cost of living, which is in relation to... Also for how much potatoes, grain, no matter what... The increase in the price of all food products is also very important. Also right now - already now! - there is also an increase in the prices of other services which seniors have to bear in some way. This offer is a step in the right direction, but it is not enough. And the seniors still insist on having 200 euros. Colleagues, I will remind you: EUR 200 was granted by the government before the municipal elections, and this was the right step, but it was in such a well-known background - before the municipal elections. At the time, this 200 euro was allocated to every senior, and then the situation was not as dramatic as it is today. Today it is more dramatic. This offer, which is currently included in this law, does not solve the situation with invoices. The requirements of the seniors must be fully met and they must receive a lump sum allowance of EUR 200, which they need today. This allowance is needed now, and I call on you, my colleagues, to come back to this issue. We, the Union of Greens/farmers, will not give up on this matter. We believe that such one-off support for seniors is necessary. Need it now! Despite the support instruments that you have mentioned, we are well aware of how housing benefits are created. There are still very many people outside this housing benefit scheme who need such assistance. In the housing allowance system, we have... It could be that 20,000 people could be in this system... Well, maybe 30 thousand. We will still see these calculations coming from the municipalities, but there are still a lot of seniors who need this kind of assistance that goes beyond these support instruments, and neither this OIC-related support nor the “Distributive Network” support will ever achieve the goal that needs to be achieved, because people are going to get into a unique bond of debt that is absolutely... They don't deserve it. This is government failure, failure to respond at the right time and to the right extent. We are proposing a proposal aimed at meeting the requirements of the seniors that they have defined themselves and at meeting them now. I therefore call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U73	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so? Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U74	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to inform you in addition that the housing allowance, co-financing by the State, is also provided for in this draft law and is intended to continue until the end of this year. And the government emphasises that for housing benefits, the new coefficient ‘2.5’, which is applied when calculating the benefit directly for single seniors, pensioners, provides... If he has, for example, a pension of EUR 270, one part of which could be reached, one of which is not even attainable, then he will keep the entire pension for other expenses, because the housing allowance covers all housing-related costs, which are higher than those of EUR 270. This means that both the heating invoice and the electricity bill will be covered by him in the form of a housing allowance. So maybe this aggravated situation, which Mr Valaiņš spoke about, does not apply to those seniors who turn to their social services at the moment; it could be more painful for those seniors who live with their... could say workable new generation people, but single seniors, if they live alone or in two... older people also have a coefficient of ‘2’. Since this situation is much better at present with the new housing benefit coefficients. This specific proposal, 10, was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U75	Thank you for your comment. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - The proposal from Members Plant and Valaiņš! Please, let's vote! There's no one for - 33, against - 49, abstaining. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U76	11. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. Provision is made for the compensation of electricity costs for the entire part of electricity, which is more than EUR 80 per megawatt-hour. The Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U77	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U78	Dear colleagues, Thank you very much to Mrs Indricksone for her explanations, but, of course, we are also following these explanations... We also make calculations, and we see that there is a huge proportion of seniors, for whom this cost increase will be large enough, and who will not be affected by these support instruments that you... You have already mentioned the examples that exist. We therefore believe that this support must continue to be given to all seniors, to the extent available to them. But on this proposal... Colleagues, we repeatedly call: look at this case in complexes! The same draft law incorporates a mechanism for the heat tariff... the setting of this median to prevent... Well, I'd call them extreme cases where really these prices... These are already examples... Daugavpils, Olaine and Rozau regions, where such examples emerged... In principle, the approach is exactly the same as that taken by the government from our proposal, but we have a deep misunderstanding about why this approach... whether it is some kind of envy of the opposition or something, but this approach is exactly the same, namely... And the same approach works in Estonia, our neighbour. We worked with energy experts on this proposal, and this would completely eliminate very many of the issues of electricity price increases not only for households but also in the business environment; it would oblige the country to work as buffers and cover this price increase on the stock market at exactly the times when this price is being created. Colleagues, this proposed proposal is what would really solve many problems immediately. This bill... speaking in general - from today to tomorrow... This will not really help Latvian society to solve these very large bills that have now come to households, people. With this proposal... As I said, we presented it as a bill. We had even foreseen a retroactive date, but, colleagues, I call for this to be supported today. We will continue to insist on this proposal, too. Additional solutions are needed, and we have already made our calculations today, our calculations, and we can say that this government package, which is being adopted here today, is good, but not complete, and very many groups of citizens, very many entrepreneurs, will remain in a very painful situation, and there will be a need for solutions. That is why, first and foremost, the seniors, and, second and foremost, all other households need to have the same median for electricity as is currently in place for heat tariffs. Heat tariffs - just like... For electricity, just as for heat tariffs, we set a ceiling - EUR 80 per megawatt-hour - and in this way we could reduce this tension that is currently being created by people receiving bills. Next month's bills: there will be new painful stories again, there will be huge public frustration again, and everyone will understand that these support instruments are not enough again. That's exactly what we've been pointing out for a month... several months ago - that action is needed... maybe step before... And this is an offer to take - at the right time and in the right place - the right solution, which, however, would help to deal with this painful situation in some way now. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U79	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U80	The Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U81	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 32, it's against - 49, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U82	We have examined all 11 proposals. The Commission has generally supported the draft law and I call on you to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2354-U83	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on measures to reduce exceptional increases in energy prices! Please, let's vote! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, we have examined the agenda of the third remote emergency session of 27 January 2022. After 15 minutes - at 20.15 - we will continue to see the agenda of the first remote sitting. The registration of Members' presence is over. So I closed my third meeting on January 27, and in 15 minutes, we will continue.
