ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2360-U1	Dear Members, Honourable Members! We begin the examination of the agenda of the third remote emergency session of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 17 February 2022. The agenda shall be accompanied by one title, ‘Provision of draft legislation’. And one piece of law – draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Reinis Znotiņš. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2360-U2	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 law on the control of the spread of infection” (No. 1351/Lp13). The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined this bill today at the meeting of the Commission. I will tell you a little more about what this draft law promoted by the Ministry of Welfare then provides. First of all, the draft law is designed to enable the State Social Insurance Agency to take decisions on the adoption of the services administered by the State Social Insurance Agency within the time limit set by regulatory enactments. I will also give you a little more insight into the current situation as to why such amendments are necessary. As a result of the rapid spread of Covid-19 disease, the number of applications received at the State Social Insurance Agency for the granting of sickness benefits has increased significantly. Thus, in comparison, 58 200 applications per month were received on average in 2021, while 76 400 applications were received in January 2022, or an average of 2.5 thousand applications per day, and in eight days of February more than 50,000 applications were received. So it's 6300 applications a day. We see this significant increase. Thus, the National Social Insurance Agency reports that existing 66 employees can receive 2970 sickness benefits per day while working under overtime regime, i.e. – each of approximately 45 allowances per day. When assessing the number of applications for sickness benefits, it was found that part of the applications of 6 February will be processed in the last – 10. – on a working day, which is currently stipulated by law. The applications submitted on 7 February will be processed on the 11th working day, therefore after the deadline, the applications submitted on 8 February will be processed on the 13th working day, on 9 February – on 14th working day, on 10 February – on 15th working day and so on. Currently, the regulatory enactments provide that the State Social Insurance Agency adopts certain administrative acts within 10 working days, and in principle this draft law offers as a solution to extend this period, that this benefit can be accepted within 30 working days of receiving the necessary documents and information. At the meeting of the Commission, both from the Ministry of Welfare and the State Social Insurance Agency, the issue was extensively clarified, and the current situation, which of course is not the best one, has been found, so that such an emergency solution would apply to the last month of the emergency and would be in force for the first three months after the removal of the emergency situation so that this flow could be reduced, and the State Social Insurance Agency also expects that during that period the situation should normalize both in terms of labour resources and in terms of the amount of benefits to be paid to sick people. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law, has supported it at first reading and is also asking for urgency to be given to the draft law. I also call on the Saeima to vote for urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2360-U3	Thank you. So we must vote on urgency first. Members have not applied to speak about the urgency of the matter or of the urgency of the matter. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 law on the control of the spread of infection”! Please vote mode! For - 70, for - 2 and for - 1. Draft law has been declared urgent. Let us start a debate. The name of Member Evita Hall-Gross. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2360-U4	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! The size of the sick leaves grows in proportion and inexorably along with the sickness curves vertically, which we follow every day. As well as people sick in the country, employees and employees in the National Social Insurance Agency also suffer. And just the workers... with disability sheets... where competence, knowledge and... specific calculation criteria... Today, around 20 percent of workers are ill. At the same time, the benefits that we have made due to the rise in energy prices are being processed in parallel. All this takes additional hours and, above all, healthy people. If we decide not to extend the time limit for the examination of the sick leaves, we will not change the fact that it is simply impossible to do so because it is a pandemic side effect. We must give the National Social Security Agency a legal framework for extending this review period for at least a month. I am asking for support for this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2360-U5	We are continuing the debate. The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2360-U6	Thank you for your word. I was concerned at least a few months ago when I asked the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption about this problem, which could arise because the Cabinet has issued numerous orders, the rules of which are very vague and diverse. It also generated most of the flow of these incapacity pages. By extending the period of consideration of these documents, people who are already suffering... with income collection, because as a result of these various orders, and also as a result of some laws, workers cannot receive salary, cannot work without a QR code, cannot work because there are different regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers that prevent them from doing so... So, by extending the response period of the public authority, in this very catastrophic situation, we are putting the ordinary population in a very difficult situation, because imagine yourself if you have to have a month without means of living, just because the VSAA cannot look at the documents... And here I would also like to touch on the next problem that has been running for years. Unfortunately, it has not been heard, and it has not been heard that it will somehow be dealt with in this recovery mechanism in 142 million... where the digitisation of public authorities is envisaged... that there will be some breakthrough in the fact that a person does not have to collect any documents, prove his own, I do not know, something true to state institutions. Public institutions should work on the data that is at the disposal of the state, and do not require any additional documents, certificates and anything if these data are available in the country. Therefore, colleagues, I would very much like to remind you of one thing: still the government, and not the citizens, has chosen such a regime, and there is nothing to suggest that there would be any relief in the coming month. This means that by increasing this time, the response time to applications, we get time on the public administration side, but we get people immersed... you do not know more about your income. So I ask my colleagues to think strongly and to reject this... law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2360-U7	I closed the debate. Mr. Znotins, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2360-U8	Yes, colleagues, this is indeed a problem. The State Social Security Agency also does not deny this and pointed out in the Commission that solutions will be sought, nor will it delay payment of this benefit until 30 days, but it will be done as soon as possible, just as soon as possible, so, as has already been pointed out, perhaps beyond this 10-day limit, but, of course, without going to the maximum time limits. It was also pointed out that additional options would be sought to improve the system and to improve the speed of costs. The Commission generally supported this... I am sorry to vote in favour of this draft law. And I also call on the Saeima to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2360-U9	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 law on the control of the spread of infection”! Please vote mode! For -67, for -6, for -2. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading and the day of the Saeima sitting for the second, final reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2360-U10	The deadline for submitting proposals is 15 minutes, which could be around 14.00 today. The budget and financial (tax) commission intends to meet again today and asks for a second, final, reading session of the Saeima today, if possible.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2360-U11	So the deadline for the second reading is today, on 17 February, at 14.00 and for discussion today, at the Saeima meeting on 17 February. Dear Members, honourable Members, We have therefore dealt with this single item on the agenda. Only registration of the presence of Members. It's been a success. I would remind you that in 15 minutes, so at 2 p.m., we will continue to consider the agenda of the second remote emergency session on 17 February. On 17 February, I closed the third remote emergency sitting.
