ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-11-PT13-2346-U1	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! We will begin the remote emergency sitting of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 11 January 2022. On the agenda – referral of draft laws to commissions and first reading. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Regulated Occupations and Recognition of Professional Qualifications” submitted by the Social and Labour Commission be referred to the Social and Labour Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? Mrs Papules, will you talk about it or 'no'?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-11-PT13-2346-U2	I would probably like to talk about the procedure. I know we need to register. At the moment, when the system enters, this document is not available, so the vote cannot be considered as objective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-11-PT13-2346-U3	Just a minute! Colleagues, I'll find out about this right away. ( Pause) Thanks to Evia Papule for drawing attention. Indeed, there is a technical mistake. So – break until 2:15 p.m. Technical Interruption until 14.15 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-11-PT13-2346-U4	Dear colleagues, We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. Indeed, in our e-Saami, this link to the relevant document... Well, there are technical problems there. Please use either the document available on the Saeima's website or the agenda for the Saeima's meeting sent to you by e-mail, where this document is available. So do Members object to the referral of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Regulated Occupations and Recognition of Professional Qualifications” to the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs, which states that it is the committee responsible? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. We started to examine the draft law at first reading. Member of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs Andris Skride.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-11-PT13-2346-U5	Hello, Mrs. Moore! Colleagues! This is a draft law drafted by the Commission, and this is the second or accompanying draft law, which is related to the conceptual report “On the further development of the sister’s profession”. And it implies that this process... that nurse education will not in fact be shared as it is today. All of this has been developed together with the Latvian Sisters Association, and it provides for a waiver of the certification process. We have already put all of this together and, at first reading, we confirmed the amendments to the Law on Medicine at the Saeima. And then together with the Bureau of Law, the Ministry and the Commission we also drafted amendments, because it is necessary to approve this in the accompanying draft law. For us, it has already been approved at first reading by the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Medicine”. And second, final, reading... on this matter, which concerns the profession of nurse, on this Thursday we will look at the second, final, reading. And that's why we discussed and supported this accompanying draft law in the Commission today. And now that's the first point, on behalf of the Commission, I ask for this bill to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-11-PT13-2346-U6	Members have not applied to speak about urgency. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Regulated Occupations and Recognition of Professional Qualifications”! Please, let's vote! No, 69, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-11-PT13-2346-U7	Yeah, thank you. Once again: so together these two draft laws provide that nurse certification and education will be the same as in most Western European countries. On behalf of the Commission, I call on the draft law to be supported at first reading. This was unanimously supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-11-PT13-2346-U8	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Regulated Occupations and Recognition of Professional Qualifications”! Please, let's vote! For - 78, for - no, for - 1. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-11-PT13-2346-U9	Since this has already been discussed and these amendments have been prepared and agreed with the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Health and the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, and no new proposals on this are planned for the second reading, the Commission, if Members do not object, asks to support the draft law immediately in the second, final, reading without re-examination by the committee.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-11-PT13-2346-U10	Please see the procedure section. Do Members have objections to the second, final, reading of the draft law without re-examination by the commission responsible? Members have reservations. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-11-PT13-2346-U11	Hello, Madam President of the Saeima. I object. This is an important law, however... we know about the lack of sisters in the current situation, and if there are no alternative measures, then...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-11-PT13-2346-U12	Yeah, thank you, thank you. And the objections. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-11-PT13-2346-U13	Yeah, so the deadline... The deadline set by the Commission for the proposals is one hour, and on behalf of the Commission, please also consider the sitting of the Saeima on 13 January.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-11-PT13-2346-U14	Okay, thank you. Consequently, the deadline for proposals - 11 January this year at 15.20, consideration by the Saeima - 13 January this year. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft Law “Amendment to Law “On Assistance in Addressing the Issues of the Apartment”, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Regina Ločmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-11-PT13-2346-U15	Hello, colleagues! The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government has today examined amendments to the law “On Assistance in Addressing the Issues of the Apartment”, supporting draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers, which provides for extension of the range of groups of residents who could be assisted in solving the issues of the apartment by providing both state and local government support - to extend with one group, which are soldiers of the National Armed Forces. The Commission has recognised the urgent need to introduce this amendment into the law. I ask the Saeima to vote in favour of declaring this draft law urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-11-PT13-2346-U16	Thank you. Members have not applied to speak about urgency. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Assistance in Addressing Apartment Issues”” as urgent! Please, let's vote! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-11-PT13-2346-U17	Thank you to the Saeima for supporting the Commission's view. And I ask the Saeima to also vote in favour of this draft law at first reading... which was endorsed today at the commission meeting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-11-PT13-2346-U18	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Assistance in Addressing the Issues of the Apartment”! Please, let's vote! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-11-PT13-2346-U19	The Commission is asking for a one-hour deadline for the submission of proposals and for the examination of the draft law at the second, final sitting of the Saeima on 13 January this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-11-PT13-2346-U20	Deadline for the proposals - 11 January at 15.25 a.m. - Saeima at its meeting on 13 January this year. On the agenda - consideration of draft decisions. Draft decision on the order of the Cabinet of Ministers of 22 December 2021 No. This Decision is addressed to the Member States. 720 ‘Advertising the Emergency’. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-11-PT13-2346-U21	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! Today, on 11 January 2022, the Commission of Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption reviewed the Cabinet of Ministers Order of 22 December 2021 No. 999 amending the order to declare an emergency. I will name the most important items referred to in this order. We all remember more or less of what it was a new year ago, but I will remind you. So it has been clarified that commercial services in an epidemiologically insecure environment can be provided at the ticket offices of registered bus stations and railway stations. The procedure for gathering in places of religious activity was clarified, by providing that, if vaccination or flaking certificates are not presented, no more than 10 visitors may gather indoors, providing not less than 15 square metres per visitor from the total area and providing visitors with FFP2 respiratory equipment for use during the service. It was also foreseen that during the period from 24 December 2021 to 11 January 2022, when arriving in Latvia from Germany, the United Kingdom, Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Belgium, Ireland and Russia, a person must present both a vaccination or a congestion certificate and a negative Covid-19 RNA or antigen test prior to boarding. The Order also provides that the operating hours of the economic services shall not be limited during the period from 3 p.m. on 31 December 2021 to 6 a.m. on 1 January 2022. In the Commission, having heard the views of the representatives of the relevant ministries and experts, this specific order and the amendments referred to therein were supported, and I therefore call on the Commission to support the draft decision drawn up by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-11-PT13-2346-U22	Thank you. Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On Cabinet of Ministers Order of 22 December 2021 No. This Decision is addressed to the Member States. 720 “Advertising the Emergency”! Please, let's vote! For - 47, for - 21, for - 4 Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision “On the Order of 7 January 2022 of the Cabinet of Ministers No. This Decision is addressed to the Member States. 720 ‘Advertising the Emergency’. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-11-PT13-2346-U23	Good afternoon, colleagues! Today, on 11 January, we also examined the order of 7 January 2022 of the Cabinet of Ministers. 2 extending the declared emergency until 28 February 2022. Of course, this order also contains more specific things that are clarified and supplemented. I may try to describe the current situation at first... which was also expressed by the Commission, what is the current situation, including with omicrone. Forecasts show that in the near future, however, a rapid increase in Covid-19 morbidity is expected in Latvia, despite the fact that the cases caused by the microbial disease are going on with a easier course of the disease, it has to be considered that the effectiveness of vaccines against the new variant... may lead to hospitalisation. Today, in the Commission, Mr Perevoščikov showed us the relevant figures and statistical curves, and it was quite clear there that the most, of course, are not protected from hospitalization by those who have not received any vaccine dose or have not completed the primary vaccination course, namely, they have not received both vaccines. Those who have received both vaccines are, unfortunately, also very close to this unvaccinated group as regards precisely the omicron variant. On the other hand, the curve was very clear and pronounced for those who have already received the third vaccine. It was quite obvious there that those who received the third vaccine are essential... more protected against both hospitalisation and serious illness and death. Unfortunately, I cannot demonstrate all these very valuable, informative slides here, but that is my attempt to briefly mention what was said in the Commission. It should also be borne in mind that the effectiveness of vaccines, as long as we do not have a very large coverage of booster vaccination, as I have already mentioned, has been reduced, and at one point, with these curves growing very rapidly, we can once again get to the hospital overload, so the Cabinet of Ministers has also amended accordingly. The amendments also provide for what certificate is required in the case of employment, what - to receive services, what - to travel. I'll tell you more. I believe that here it is also necessary to mention and explain how the Cabinet of Ministers Regulations No. 662 will further regulate this terminology. In particular, a person who has received doses of both vaccines “Modern”, “AstraZeneca” and “Pfizer”, and one required dose of “Janssen”, will be considered a primary vaccine person. Persons (pure terminology) who have received both these vaccines and plus a booster vaccine will be considered to have been fully vaccinated. On the other hand, those who are not vaccinated or who have not completed the vaccination course will be considered as persons who have not received any or only one subtype. This is important - this definition - throughout the future regulation when it comes to the availability of different services for different groups of vaccinees. And in general... We know that these certificates will be valid for nine months in the future for travel within the European Union, but that is the case with travel. In Latvia, the period of validity of the vaccination certificate for a period of nine months is also set for the receipt of services, while for a person receiving the “Janssen” vaccine, the period of validity of the vaccination certificate for the receipt of the services is set for five months. What it is important to mention and once again explain to the general public is that the period of validity of the vaccination certificate is not extended to employment issues. This means that those who have received either of the two vaccines or one ‘Janssen’ vaccine as intended will be able to continue to work without a booster vaccine. Go on. The certificate will therefore be valid for the vaccinated persons nine months after completion of the primary vaccination course with the three already named “Pfizer”, “AstraZeneca” and “Modern” vaccines and five months after receipt of the “Janssen” vaccine. It is established that the regulation on the validity of Covid-19 vaccination certificates will enter into force in Latvia on 15 February and will only apply to receiving services and visiting events in an epidemiologically safe environment. What is still important is that this regulation on the period of validity takes effect on 15 February, while the period of validity of the vaccination is counted from the date of receipt of the second pot. This has been explained to us today in the Commission, and it has been clarified that we do not mix these things, so that any person does not explicitly and explicitly start counting the period of validity of the vaccination certificate from 15 February. No, the expiry date of the vaccine starts from the second button of AstraZeneca, Pfizer and Moderna vaccines or the first button of the Janssen vaccine. And it is important that this deadline - I stress once again! - only concerns the receipt of services and the attendance of measures in an epidemiologically secure environment. In turn, employment will have the current regulation, so the full vaccination course, and then this certificate is valid. Of course, we understand that we need to be encouraged if we are to overcome the risks of omicrone also to the health system - the risks of overload, I think, and the risks of mortality... we also need to promote booster vaccination, but now this regulation... In the Cabinet... on the recommendation of experts and experts, that is the case. Further information. The period of validity of the vaccination is not extended to children under 18 years of age, as this population is currently excluded from the scope of maintenance vaccination and, as I have already mentioned, it does not apply to the performance of duties. In addition, the amendments to the Ordinance of 7 January provide that tests on routine Covid-19 screening tests of all persons working on the ground, including officials, may be organised to mitigate the risks of spreading Covid-19. In such a case, the costs of testing shall be borne by the employer. So it's a little extra. As I have already mentioned, in line with the decision of the European Commission of 21 December 2021, starting on 1 February, the Covid-19 certificate will also be valid for nine months for travel, although there is a note here that regardless of the type of vaccine received, i.e. travel in the European Union.... This is a regulation of the European Union and allows this expiry date for any vaccine... it does not allow it, but the period of validity of any of the four vaccines currently recognised in the European Union is nine months. More specifically, all these term issues are discussed in more detail in the Cabinet of Ministers Regulations No. 662 on epidemiological safety measures, so that I invite Members to get to know these rules in more detail if there are any further questions about this. Go on. Amendments to the Ordinance also lay down the conditions for the conduct of professional qualifications examinations on the spot and the requirements for both the persons involved in the examination and the premises. The conditions provide for such things as screening tests, use of FFP2 respiratory equipment, not more than 20 persons in presence, ventilation requirements, including CO2 level control during the examination. The amendments to the Ordinance also concern the education sector and provide for extended possibilities to cover different classes in objectively justified cases, including consultations, extended day groups and interest education classes, provided that the requirements regarding space area, ventilation, number of students and routine screening are met. The number of students is not applicable if the class, group or course does not overlap with another class, group or course. With regard to youth work, clarification has been made by aligning the implementation requirements for activities with those for the implementation of the programme of education of interest. In the future, youth work can also take place indoors, and in them... young people with a certificate of primary vaccination, booster vaccination or flaking, as well as children with an interoperable test certificate or... according to the center algorithm... in formal education and in the medium... a Covid-19 antigen screening test or RNA detection test has been carried out and is negative. The Ordinance also provides for the possibility for learners from 12 years of age who do not hold a primary vaccination, booster vaccination or congestion certificate, but who have carried out routine screening tests in formal education, re-entering sports training and indoor activities in groups. Accordingly, sports training for students of interest education and professional orientation education programmes may also take place indoors, provided that conditions are met that correspond to the course of safe sports training, i.e. those mentioned above - a certain number of learners, fulfilment in the wardrobes; throughout indoor sports activities... the two-metre distance and other requirements are respected everywhere during the visit. The amendments to the order also provide for an opportunity for indoor training for pre-school age learners, if it is ensured that during the course of the classes their flow does not overlap with the basic level of education and not more than 20 learners participate in the training. At the same time a requirement is established: if indoor classes of pre-school learners overlap with primary education classes, pre-school learners must carry out an antigen self-test not earlier than 24 hours prior to parental supervision by notifying the result to the person responsible, or before the exercise – in the presence of authorised persons and parents. Consequently, it requires that the costs of testing are borne by the implementer of the relevant programme for the education or training of the interests concerned. Testing costs should not be borne by the parents of the child - it is also important to mention this here. The order also specifies the order number. 720 or the original version of the order for training and training in outdoors; this provides for the possibility to use dressing rooms if the performance in the dressing rooms does not exceed 25 per cent. The performance of sports competitions is also clarified by extending the requirements - about activities in an epidemiologically safe environment - to learners who have carried out a Covid-19 test within the framework of screening organised by an educational establishment, and to pre-school learners if they are carrying out antigen self-tests in the presence and negative in the presence of authorised persons and parents. All in all, in the commission... After hearing above all inectologists, experts on the current Covid–19 spread of infection, as well as explanations and comments from ministries, the Commission decided to support these amendments and also invites to support the draft decision prepared by the Commission, which supports the announced amendments to the Emergency Order. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-11-PT13-2346-U24	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-11-PT13-2346-U25	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, First of all, congratulations to everyone in the new year! May all of you have good health, and let us do good works together for the benefit of the people of Latvia! As for this order, which I call on the Saeima to support, I should return a little in the past and remind you colleagues: already at the end of November, at the end of November last year, around the world, and therefore also in Latvia, we have reported that there is a new type of virus. There was a rapid spread, especially in Britain; there was news from day to day about how this virus was spreading, how contagious it was. And these curves have already started to model our local inectologists, students. Anyone who wanted to get to know it. The information was quite extensive. And now, unfortunately, we have to admit that all these forecasts also apply to Latvia... those that have been modelled for Latvia are beginning to come true, and its future forecasts for Latvia have little to do with the spread of this virus. If we are talking about a government plan to combat it, then indeed, in mid-December, we in the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union asked whether the government had a plan and whether it could be seen about it and how it would be implemented. Instead... What happened? At the beginning of December, a government meeting acknowledged that there was no such plan. There is no plan for how to fight this virus at the moment. At the end of December, it happened... Instead of limiting the spread of the virus in some way, the government took one of the most irresponsible decisions it could take in that situation - allowed the New Year's night balls to an early morning hour, so sent a signal to the general public: please, do not party, do not pour, celebrate New Year's New Year, celebrate life, despite the fact that the virus is spreading enormously! And then those funny statements from the Prime Minister... It was very childish: after such a decision, go and call the people not to gather, do not come together, do not come together. It was not possible to pass on such a clear signal to the general public that the government accepted that... Give the green light to the celebration of the new year. And what do we see today? We are seeing 2240 new cases today. The virus is spreading very rapidly in Latvia, and the government places the issue of the current package of various restrictions on us on the agenda. And in essence, these questions, in my opinion, are hard... late; it is absolutely pointless to come with some new ideas, those taken from the air, without any clear vision of how to act, clear plan, perhaps not only in a two-week section, but in a month, two months ahead. Unfortunately, we have started the new year with the fact that we are once again running the virus from the back and there is no vision of how to delay the spread of this virus infection. No place! Now we see again a gloomy face that reads to us what will now be, what new restrictions will be. It is absolutely pointless if the government continues to climb on the same rabbis it was climbing on last year. At the beginning of autumn, it was late. People died because the government did not introduce restrictions when they had to introduce them. It takes a few months - the same thing: again it is clear that the virus is spreading. Aeroplanes - several planes per day - enter without any control... What decision did the government make? Green light for the celebration of the Old Year! Colleagues, is this responsible? And now there's some new rules... These rules are pointless. It seems that it would be better if the government at all did not introduce any rules, let people live and fight against the spread of this virus itself; perhaps then the results would be even much better than at present, when the government sends the opposite signals, misses the time when any action really would result, and does so when, unfortunately, it is already pointless. Colleagues, I call on you to think with your heads and indeed to act in good time, not again... start the next year and run the virus from the back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-11-PT13-2346-U26	Thank you. The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-11-PT13-2346-U27	Hello, chair of the sitting! Hello, colleagues! Hello, listeners and viewers! There was a rather long lecture in the Commission today on what is happening in the country; what is happening with the virus; what is happening in general. Unfortunately, Members did not have the opportunity to ask much questions and to receive answers to all the questions of interest. The first and most important thing that I think is now, which should also be addressed by all the ministries, is that - in addition to the co-crisis - there is also the energy crisis, when prices for all utilities are increasing at a simple astronomical rate. This means that the moment will come when the time limits for the payment of these invoices will come and the next torture circle will start for those people who will not be able to pay the invoices because the invoices will be made, forced recovery will be carried out. And in this way we will harden the population again in the next negativity wave, in the current excitement, in the current ignorance. Unfortunately, representatives of the Prime Minister were also unable to help on this matter at the meeting of the commission, but only informed that various benefits and support were available. But, in my opinion, these figures, which are offered by the state, do not necessarily cover the increase in all the bills that will immediately reach the population. The most important thing - all this - is that the currently praised QR code and all these certificates do not help to fight infection, because at the moment the authorities working in the green regime cannot make sure that the person with the interoperable certificate is not really ill. And we can see that we are now in a situation where, after these great days of celebration, we are beginning to develop the indicators of infection. And the most interesting thing in all this situation is that the people of Latgale are those who have been more responsible to themselves and their health, because if we look at the presentation of Mr. Perevoščikovs, then we see that the level of illness, the level of infection in Latgale is lower, even though there is the lowest vaccination... data. This means that we already see and prove that the Swedish model can also work in the territory of Latvia, that the government does not try to force people to do something mandatory by introducing unreasonable rules and thus making people, as they say, fearful and... One part is once again opposed to what the government has come up with and spends. I also mentioned in the commission that a person who is sick, who has received a positive test result is still walking with this interoperable certificate, which is active and has no problem entering the store. And they're... Those who suffer from omicron without symptoms but with an interoperable certificate may enter any service facility. So that in this case too... The new formation that is currently being proposed by the ruling coalition, that is, to extend this... limit this interoperability certificate... It is not, in my opinion, a sensible decision, because it will lead to a situation where the system will be very complex once again. Please bring me together the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-11-PT13-2346-U28	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-11-PT13-2346-U29	There is a system that is not yet understood by people, because it can be a situation that after this deadline, let's accept a store employee with a certificate that has been approved... Two of these vaccines will be available for planting in the store, while a person who also has two vaccines but does not have an interoperable certificate will not be able to visit the store until he has received the maintenance vaccine. Consequently, I believe that these exercises with different new imaginatives, trying to make the system more complex, will have only negative consequences, and I call on my colleagues not to support emergency situations either, because that... because there are many problems that do not have a solution at the moment, and this does not in any way contribute to limiting the spread of the virus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-11-PT13-2346-U30	Thank you. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-11-PT13-2346-U31	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Congratulations, of course, first and foremost in the new year! The best wishes for you! First of all, of course, health, health, and health again, despite omicrons and other possible Greek alphabets! Dear colleagues, For us, the government once again - only today is the second time - proposes that their decisions be approved with the wording "to support measures to stop the rapid spread of Covid-19 infection". At the same time, we are reading today that officials from the World Health Organisation say that, over a few weeks, half of Europe's population will be infected with omicrons. Today, half of all the cases we have are due to the omicrone. Colleagues, when will it finally become clear to the government and also to the legislator that it is not possible to stop the spreading of the community? Talking about any measures to stop the spread is absolutely and absolutely pointless. What's going on may have become... The Polish President has become such a possible symbol of what is happening. The President of Poland has, as we know, already had a positive test for the community for the second time, despite the fact that the President of Poland has been fully vaccinated and has received a booster vaccine. This, of course, does not indicate that this will happen to everyone, but the case is rather symbolic. Today we also have a lot of talk about tests - tests, tests and tests again. We spend several million, if not tens of million, on testing. At the same time, when we read the news today, we see that in an interview with Latvian Television, the Head of the National Microbiology Reference Laboratory, Sergej Nikšins, says that the omicron variant has an increased probability of false negative cord test results. In this situation, the question is: why do we continue to spend millions on testing if it does not work particularly against the omicron, if we know that it is perhaps a day-by-day question, a week-by-week question, when almost everyone will become infected with the omicron? Then there is a question that should have been asked for a long time: what is the point of spending such a huge amount of money on testing? What will we learn from this? How will this help us make better decisions? Colleagues, we are listening today and next day about current very nuanced systems, as in another single place... or in workplaces, study places create extremely nuanced, safe... the so-called safe epidemiological zones. But, colleagues, if any of you recently have either been driving in public transport or perhaps have seen through the window of your car what's happening in public transport... So what happens? We spend a lot of time imposing ever more complex and complex restrictions, creating safe epidemiological zones in workplaces and study places, but when travelling to or from those workplaces or study places, those who do not own a private car... I ask you to combine the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-11-PT13-2346-U32	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-11-PT13-2346-U33	Thank you. Then it turns out that people... gets into public transport, where, of course, spending half an hour or an hour... especially in view of the properties of the omicrone, it is absolutely clear that if at least one there it is, then all the other half an hour will also be. Then let us ask ourselves: is public transport a safe epidemiological zone? What is the point, then, of investing so much in creating safe areas - jobs and study places - if people go to them every day and from them in public transport, where they will certainly be infected? Colleagues, we... Those who read the annotations... We have a government proposal to approve this particular order, which states in the argument that the extension of the emergency situation does not have any effect on the economy. This statement states that the extension of the emergency situation for two months has no effect on the national budget. No effect on the state budget, colleagues! At the same time, today's Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission adopts government appropriations to borrow another EUR 300 million for the extension of the emergency, which, according to this statement, has nothing - nothing! - the effect on the public budget! But, colleagues, this is about government forecasts. This statement also states that the predictions show a very rapid, uncontrolled increase in patients in hospital, above the limits of hospital capacity. If we look at the government's meeting today, we do not see anything like that. We can see that, despite the fact that the number of cases is much higher than a year ago, there is only half of the hospitalization that it was a year ago. These are serious issues - the government's forecasts on the basis of which the government takes decisions. Colleagues, recapitulating - the omicrons change absolutely everything, it leads to a review of absolutely everything. Instead of reconsidering and reviewing what we are doing, the government puts its head in the sand and says: “Let us continue as before for two more months.” I call for this policy not to be supported, colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-11-PT13-2346-U34	Thank you. Name to Member Raimond Bergman.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-11-PT13-2346-U35	Hello, very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! Much has already been debated, and much can be agreed upon, perhaps not exactly... The people have spoken, and today's commission meeting, too... we, as always, expect and want to receive these arguments - the arguments why we need to make a specific decision. Yes, we have to look at the time when the government has already done so on several occasions. Undoubtedly. And we are now making this decision on January 7... but that is the case with order No No. 720 “Proclaiming an emergency”, which is very, very large, and we already know that the Prime Minister also asked for it in some way... and we heard in the Commission that it needed some simplification in order to make it easier for people to take all of this. This was done, new orders were issued, but now we are trying to complicate them again. Why am I speaking on behalf of the whole Greens/Farmers Union? We have very often made proposals on how to act, how to help, but very rarely we have seen that this is being taken into account. It cannot be said that it is not taken into account, and I am truly grateful that my encouragement, for example, that we will not distinguish between people who provide assistance in hospitals or who carry out their duties at the border, was also heard. At the moment, it has been changed and people are receiving these premiums in the same way. Yes, an emergency is a tool - as a tool for the government to act. It's like an instrument. How do we do that, it seems... that's why these huge and many questions, as we do... It was difficult for me, too, to understand today at the committee meeting why this is the decision... or different. For example, the Ombudsman's representative asked why it was in social care homes that state-paid tests would be carried out. I did not get a clear answer. The only thing I heard is that the Minister for Welfare has worked well and this is the way in which this decision has been made. I think it's not right... and a systemic approach to address some areas... who then the minister is stronger or in some way knows his field and wants to do more, it gets some results, and other areas do not get any results. It seems to me that the systemic approach to public administration is not properly managed, even more so in such a difficult situation. Even today, when we asked Mr Latkovsky questions about the situation in other countries, for example, or where the pilots or emergency situations have been announced, we did not receive a reasoned answer... and why, for example, this instrument is not being used, because we already know when this... sitting, we were working further without an emergency situation with very many restrictions. And at the moment, I didn't hear these... either in today's commission meeting, I didn't hear why that was so long to be an emergency. And these are very important issues that probably need to be clarified more. Thank you - Mr Ranzan is also quite clear at the moment, because people have a lot of questions... Now, coming on to another certificate when you... if you have ever had a test, primary, flaking, then there is now a full vaccination certificate for people who have received a booster vaccine. So there are many things that are very good and that give some contribution, but at the same time there are so many questions about things that should be changed and which, we see, are also being changed at this time - things are being changed! And thank you for understanding how important it is for children to do sports and to take part in out-of-hour classes in the education of interest. That is really important, and you have changed something. But at the same time, there are many things that have survived. I stress that this is just one order, the rest of which is already the extensive order that has remained and that requires clarification. We have still not received this. I ask you to unite the times.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-11-PT13-2346-U36	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-11-PT13-2346-U37	Thank you. Consequently, such cooperation and its systemic approach, logic... Why do we refer to specific countries in the annotation, some sort of link to the situation in our country, why do we talk about our neighbours at some point, then we are no longer talking about our neighbours - that is what people probably want to hear, and we also want to hear in the Commission so that we can make informed decisions and vote in favour of these decisions. But very much is lacking, too, this communication and these changes, and... Some elementary things. We have spoken so often in the Commission that perhaps those countries with high vaccinations have confidence in the government. In this case, the question arises: where is public confidence when we ask... For example, in order to go to the shop for the necessary goods, do we have to present both a certificate and a document? Well, that's what... view... I do not know, perhaps it would be easier for me to accept such a system if I were to say that it is in most countries of the European Union, for example, but I have not heard such a argument, and it is already happening here... For example, people come back from Britain, they enter, they are assigned to show the test, they carry out the test, they send it, they are trusted in the government. Clearly, there will always be a wrongdoer. At the moment, we also see offenders and things happen, but now, this trust is building, and that is what is perhaps very, very necessary in our society right now... we're pretty fragmented... situation, and different people are against different things that may be really good. In this case, as a representative of the Greens/Farmers' Union, I would also like to say that we are willing... I want to... and thanks for the fact that you have sometimes listened to our solutions, we do not want to be those who, for example, carry a piano to the castle, think that this way you can solve something. That is why we will abstain from this vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-11-PT13-2346-U38	Thank you. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-11-PT13-2346-U39	Good afternoon, everybody! Good afternoon to Latvian society! I've just heard Mr. Bergmanis already “wet” for Unity. I want to address all Latvian people as an omicron patient. I have a positive cooperative test, which has been done several times, and also in January this year. So, yesterday, I had a positive kovid test. You see, I'm alive. I don't have a nose, I don't have a cough. What I want to say. I was infected... I had a temperature... I was infected by a vaccinated person, a fully vaccinated person, according to all national standards, with all the syringes that the country has identified as correct, demonstrating that the vaccination does not protect against the disease. That's the number one. Number two. The course of the disease was certainly much easier for me as an unvaccinated person than for the vaccinated person who infected me. The difference is huge... between me... Two years ago, when I was 101 kilos and when I was a little more rounder, and now when I have more than 20 kilos less. What do I mean by that? I would like to say that the solution is not continuous spying... grafting, pills, pharmacy and everything else, the solution is (what should be talked about, and the task of parliament should not only talk, but also actually support) - a healthy lifestyle. A healthy lifestyle. Movements, fresh air, without restrictions, as is actually the case in most of Europe, where there is no need to display QR codes when entering the store. There's a lot of people in the world... mostly in the world do not need to display QR codes... and in that spirit. Another thing I want to say in the same context. In my opinion, spending money on some kind of tests and all kinds of intimidation campaigns is useless. If you want to help people, you can help people very easily. So there are people who may have worse immunity... they have been lazy, they have consumed too much alcohol in their lives, they have weakened immunity, they are rude and so. Buy... To subsidize vitamin C, vitamin D, zinc, selenium. It's not so expensive. Just one pack for each pensioner. It will be cheaper than making them pointless tests from morning to evening. I've recently made four or five tests. It costs the state something... Well, it's a pure interest. I was interested in making these tests. But what is the point of whether my condition, wellness has improved... Is it better for the country? Who is better about it? The only ones who are better are those who are dealing with that business. And that's it. More than that. I also have a collective test from a person who has been vaccinated... I got it because I had no contact with any other person during the relevant period. There you go! So it's... That's one thing. The other thing. However, I would like people to look more widely – they also look beyond Latvia and... I ask you to unite the times.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-11-PT13-2346-U40	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-11-PT13-2346-U41	I would like people to look more widely. Thus, it is not necessary to present that QR code in supermarkets abroad. All this is real discrimination, human discrimination. In the world - in the normal world - there is no need for a QR code when going in the shop. You can go positive, negative; with a code, without a code; vaccinated, not vaccinated - no one is interested, not even at airports, by the way. I am not talking about Riga Airport; I am talking about airports of other countries - there is no interest, believe me, dear people, no codes, no tests. So, it's all about business again. Dear people, I am calling you very, very, very much, all as one, to understand: yes, the omicrone is sticky, because this is also proved by the fact that I was the only person I had to communicate with when I was already infected... when I didn't know I was infected yet, but when I was infected. Symptoms for us all the same, for all people the same, - like common flu: high temperature, breaking bones, pains in muscles for two days, and all. Well, for those who are physically less developed, less sportingly - for them a little harder. For those who are more physically powerful, with a better physical base that has more been in the field, easier for them. Therefore, I call, dear people, not to be afraid and to subjugate all life only with fear of the virus and to continue, as you say, tomorrow with all their crazyness, but to become healthier to yourself, go out in the fresh air to improve their health every day. This time - minus 10 degrees - is an excellent time to improve your health. I can say that from my personal experience. And I call everyone to it. And let me remind you that the state of emergency is, in my opinion, two countries - Kazakhstan and Latvia. Unfortunately, there are too few goats in Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-11-PT13-2346-U42	Thank you. On the other hand, Mr Gobzem and his colleagues would be invited to realise that there is an Saeima sitting here and to choose the appropriate language for the Saeima sitting. The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-11-PT13-2346-U43	Hello, colleagues! The political group will not support this order of the Cabinet of Ministers. We cannot support this order because it prolongs the state emergency situation. We believe that no extension of the emergency situation will be able to increase the capacity of this Cabinet to combat the pandemic. We have already seen this both at the end of last year and we continue to make sure that we are talking to people who have faced another chaos and another absolutely absurd situation. Last example: A person who has been vaccinated, who has an interoperable certificate, is suffering from Covid-19 (probably an omicron type) and, in the hope that from day one he will be assisted by the state and paid for his disability, goes to the family doctor (virtually going) because this was the procedure established by Articles 55 and 56 of the Law on Maternity and Sick Insurance. But it turns out that these articles were only in force until 31 December last year and that with the new year... all family doctors in Latvia have received warnings from the National Health Service that, as of 1 January, the prescription of sick leaves should be continued in the previous routine procedure - that is, from the first day only the page that has to be paid to the employer can be prescribed. Consequently, the State no longer participates in the cost of the incapacity of these vaccinated and overloaded people. The doctor said: “We don’t have any money anymore.” The key thing that this government wants to achieve by extending the emergency situation beyond 11 January is to extend its possibilities of wasting and wasting money out of the national budget and out of the European Union's assistance... spend the way they like it, not the way they need to fight the pandemic and help the social people who are in difficulty with government policies. They, this government, want to continue in the same spirit as they did in 2021. The no-park group will never vote in favour of this draft decision, because everything that this government has to do is to resign! People who are able to make decisions for the benefit of both the state and the people should be elected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-11-PT13-2346-U44	I closed the debate. Mr. Rancan, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-11-PT13-2346-U45	Yeah. Thank you to your colleagues for the debate. On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that the answers, for example, to the differences in the Baltic countries, about the situation in Estonia and Lithuania, were, however, given. And these differences were both mortality rates, hospital load rates and other aspects. It is not that the members of the commission were told anything. In general, I call for support for the draft decision drawn up by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-11-PT13-2346-U46	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the order of 7 January 2022 of the Cabinet of Ministers No. This Decision is addressed to the Member States. 720 “Advertising the Emergency”! Please, let's vote! For - 48, for - 26, for - 10. The decision has been taken. Dear colleagues, The agenda of the sitting was examined. Time for notification. I would remind you that a meeting of the Council of political groups is due to take place today. We will start the meeting of the political groups council at 3.30 p.m. It will take place partly remotely in the Red Hall via Internet connection. Registration of Members' presence. That's the end, too. Thank you for your work today. I'm closing the sitting.
