ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2359-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! We will begin the first remote emergency sitting of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 17 February 2022. On the procedure. Ralph Nemir, who asked for a word. Mr Nemir, please also apply in the system. The name of the Member, Ralph Nemir, is about the procedure.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2359-U2	Good morning, the honourable Speaker of the Saeima and only on television and monitors, unfortunately, fellow Members who have been seen! Well, if we look at the situation in the country... Currently, young children go to kindergarten, pupils to school, various large concerts take place. Consequently, at this point in time, I do not believe that there is any reason to make an exception to the Members of the Saeima and not to secure the proceedings of the sitting on the spot. I therefore call on us to return to work as soon as possible. In addition, I would remind you that very many Members are travelling on various missions, travelling to other parliaments and meeting there on-site. I therefore call on Members to return – as soon as possible! – on-site work. I do not see any reason to make an exception to Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2359-U3	Thank you, Mr Nemir. Yes, it is really decided that Parliament will return to its place as soon as possible. Dear colleagues, The Bureau's report on the draft legislative act submitted to it is on the agenda. The Saeima Presidium proposes the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Covid-19 Law on the Management of communicable Effects” (No. 1351/Lp13) transferred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? Members have not applied. There is no objection. Consequently, the draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Please activate the procedure section – procedural issues. The section is activated. Dear colleagues, Members Viktors Valainis, Uldis Augulis, Edgars Tavars, Janīna Jalinska, Māris Kučinskis, Jānis Dūklavs, Gundars Dauge, Jānis Vucāns, Armands Krauze and Raimonds Bergmanis have submitted a request to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “The Prime Minister’s Opinion on the Reliability of Self-Testing Tests”. Name to Member Viktor Valainis to motivate his request. Please also sign in electronically. ( Pause) Mr. Valains! To provide the motivation for the request, you need to log in electronically. ( Pause) Dear colleagues, The possibility to motivate the request has been given. Member Viktors Valainis asked for this. It is difficult to find out why Mr Valaiņš does not apply. Maybe that's a technical disturbance. Consequently, the request shall be submitted to the Requesting Commission. The agenda of the sitting was examined. A further statement. Ladies and gentlemen, today's birthday is celebrated by our fellow Member Aldis Adamovičs and we welcome him. Happy birthday! There's also a record of Members. It's over. In a very short time, at 9: 20, we will begin to review the agenda of today’s second remote emergency session. So we'll get back to work at 9: 20 a.m. As a result, I closed my first remote emergency sitting this year.
