ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! We will begin the sitting of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 27 October 2022. Dear colleagues, we, 13. Saeima, we've met last sitting of this parliamentary term. the last meeting of the call. On 1 November, the newly elected 14th meeting will take place here. The Saeima. Dear colleagues, Juta Strīķe, Inese Iksten, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš and Aldis Blumbergs have gone out of this term. Let us remember them with a moment of silence. ( A moment of silence.) Thank you. Dear colleagues, Work 13. The family was special. We experienced a pandemic, a hybrid attack at the Latvian border, a war in Ukraine, and we worked on a special regime both in person and remotely, and for a moment it was extremely intensive. Together, we had to make important decisions in relation to national security, the energy crisis, we had to look for ways of supporting our citizens, our entrepreneurs, to implement a number of reforms. There may have been mistakes, but the results are very, very much. And it can be said that this term is special, because we expect the centenary of our Saeima. Dear colleagues, I thank you all for your work 13. In the family. Thank you, Members of the Saeima. In honour of the centenary of our Parliament, the President of the European Parliament, Robert Metsola, has arrived today. Mrs Metsolas is a lawyer, she has been a Member of the European Parliament since 2013. She has been Vice-President of the European Parliament since November 2020 and was elected President of the European Parliament in January 2022. Mrs. Metsol, your name is!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U2	Thank you very much, Madam President, Members of the European Parliament. I would like to start by saying words of thanks – I thank you all and all the people you represent. Latvia will always be a symbol for me – a symbol of hope, change and persistence. It proves that people and people can overcome the difficulties, resist and lead behind themselves, can get rid of the fact that they are living in history, join the European Union and build our common future. European values and features are personalized in Latvian people. 2022 marks a very important centenary. We celebrate your democracy, your respect for human rights and freedom, your freedom to choose your destiny. A hundred years ago, your Members met at the first meeting of the freely elected parliament – the Constitutional Meeting and jointly adopted the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia. In May 1990 – after 50 years of occupation – the Supreme Council in Riga was freed from the Soviet Union. The state of Latvia was restored and the 1922 Satversme was renewed. It needed courage, it needed faith and human strength. I would really like to honor those 138 people - men, women - Members, for their courage. And it is in this spirit that I also imagine Ukraine today, because political courage is needed to restore normality in this period when we face the unjust, illegal and unacceptable aggression and invasion of Russia in a sovereign country in Europe. We need to be clear – at the moment we are experiencing the Kremlin's attempt to rewrite history, restore the Iron Curtain, which the Latvians helped to break down, and the system of spheres of influence of the last century. This is unacceptable, and it is particularly unacceptable in the European Union. We have very quickly adopted far-reaching and painful sanctions against Russia and Belarus, very quickly restricted access to the European Union's capital and financial markets, actively reduced our energy dependence on Russia, closed access to our waters, ports, airspace and transport space for all vehicles registered in Russia. We accepted Ukraine and Moldova as candidate countries for the European Union. We found a place for Ukrainians in our home and heart, as well as continued support for Ukraine in military, financial and human terms. We have the honour, and we are proud of being with Ukraine, but we need to do even more. In my first address (when I became President of the European Parliament), I promised that our institution would never be neutral between fire and firemen. And we must continue to help Ukraine to win. This means that Russia must be held accountable for war crimes when civilians are killed. This means adopting even more sanctions. This means strengthening security in border regions of Latvia. This means that Ukraine needs to be further assisted financially and militaryly, including by supplying tanks and air defence systems. This also means strengthening the cross-border links between the Baltic States in a way such as the construction of the high-speed infrastructure project Rail Baltica, which is also very important for military mobility at present. Nor can it be denied that in the last eight months the centre of decision-making in the field of European defence and security is now located in the Baltic region centred on Latvia. You know very well what we are dealing with. Latvia has been warning other countries about Russia for a long time, and Latvia was right. You know better than anyone else – we have to fight for peace, and we will do it! – that it must be a real peace: with freedom, justice and responsibility. Today Latvia is the leading country in the European Union, overcoming and resisting the spread of the Kremlin propaganda and hybrid threats. Latvia's experience and leadership will also be crucial in the next steps to be taken by Europe to overcome the serious threats to our democratic values and the prosperity and peace of the European Union. Together, we must establish a real security and defence union that would complement NATO. Latvia has shown huge solidarity to Ukraine. Latvia also shows Europe how national leaders and citizens can agree to resist brutal autocratic forces. However, more solidarity from the European Union is needed. This is particularly important in overcoming the common energy and economic crisis. These are our biggest challenges, and the European Union must act together to address challenges such as energy prices, energy disruptions and inflation, reaching a two-digit level. If we do not act together now, the rapidly growing negative effects will affect the well-being of European entrepreneurs, households and citizens. Our banks and the financial sector are already under pressure. At the same time, interest rates are rising at a very high rate and this will rapidly reduce the value of people's homes, wages, pensions and public budgets. Our economy managed to recover from the pandemic thanks to our economic governance framework and the Next Generation EU programme. We needed a great deal of courage to make this happen, and we needed a lot of difficult decisions. We also know that debt is not a brother; we will have to repay it. The only way to do this is to agree and return the European Union's economy to a path of stable growth. Friends, this is a time when stronger integration between Europe and the European Union will be needed. Latvia and nine other countries joined the European Union on that crucial day of 2004. Since then, we have seen huge changes in membership of the European Union, in terms not only of our internal markets, our local communities, but also in Europe as a whole. We changed together and we have to stay together. In this respect, it is very important to maintain and strengthen contacts between national parliaments. I am determined to improve the link between the European Parliament and national parliaments. I know how much these institutions can do together. The future of Europe is based on Europe's unique ability to adapt quickly, persevere and unitedly. That is why, in my eyes, Europe has always represented the future, change, opportunity and hope. When Brexit took place a few years ago, we saw that many political forces in different countries thought it would be better to leave Europe. We thought it could have a domino effect, and many other countries might have thought it would be better, but no one says it anymore – no one says it anymore! On the contrary, there is an ever longer and longer list of countries that want to join us. This shows hope for a common future for young people in Europe. Only by working together will Europe be able to overcome our time and the challenges of the next century. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U3	Thank you, honourable colleague... Roberta... Thank you to Mrs Metsola, thank you to the Members of the Saeima and also to the European Parliamentary Members who are here in the Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, the Saeima will be chaired by Dagmara Beitnere-Le Galla. I'm going with my colleagues to meet with Mrs. Robert Metsol. ( Pause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U4	Dear colleagues, We shall continue the sitting of the Saeima on 27 October 2022. Changes to the agenda submitted The Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Applications asks for the following item to be included on the agenda of the sitting: “Administrative Penalty Notice 13. Members of the Saeima for the period from 5 September 2022 to 23 October 2022.’ Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Foreign Commission asks for the draft law “On the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on measures of solidarity for the protection of security of gas supply” to be included on the agenda of the meeting. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Foreign Commission asks for the draft law “On the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Estonia on solidarity measures to protect security of gas supply” to be included on the agenda of the meeting. Do Members object to the inclusion of a draft law on the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. and the draft law submitted by the Foreign Affairs Commission on the termination of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway on the promotion and protection of mutual investment. Do Members object to the inclusion of a draft law on the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The order of business has been amended. We are starting to look at the amended agenda. Statement by the Bureau on the draft legislative act submitted. Foreign Affairs Commission, Bureau asks to include... draft law on the termination of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway on the termination of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway on the promotion and protection of mutual investment shall be referred to the Commission. Are Members opposed to handing over the draft law to the Foreign Affairs Commission, making it a commission responsible? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The next item is entitled ‘On the granting of leave’. For unpaid leave granted to Member Edgars Tavars from 26 to 27 October this year. The Saeima shall inform the Bureau that he has received a request from Member Edgars Tatars to grant him unpaid leave on 26 and 27 October of this year. It shall be allocated by the Saeima Bureau and shall be informed by the Saeima. Next section: "Preview of draft decisions"... Notice on administrative fines 13. Members of the Saeima for the period from 5 September 2022 to 23 October 2022. Member Normunds Gunna on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U5	Hello, colleagues! The Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications shall provide information on administratively punished Members in accordance with the data contained in the Penal Register for the period from 5 September 2022 to 23 October 2022. Name: Raimonds Bergmanis. On August 24, 2022, the Patrol Police Division of the State Police Administration of Kurzeme Region, adopted a decision on an infringement under Section 55(4) of the Road Traffic Law (on speeding the authorised speed from 11 kilometres per hour to 20 kilometres per hour). The Decision entered into force on 10 September 2022. Aigars Bisque. On September 3, 2022, the Ogres branch of the State Police Administration of the Order Police Administration of Riga Region adopted a decision on an infringement under Section 55(7) of the Road Traffic Law (on speeding the authorised speed from 21 kilometres per hour to 30 kilometres per hour). A fine has been imposed. The Decision entered into force on 21 September 2022. Alina Gendel. On September 5, 2022, the Patrol Police Division of the State Police Administration of Latgale Region adopted a decision on an infringement under Section 79(3) of the Road Traffic Law. The Decision entered into force on 22 September 2022. Juris Puce. On 3 September 2022, the Patrol Police Division of the State Police Administration’s Office’s Office of Orders adopted a decision on an infringement under Section 55, 11th part of the Road Traffic Law (on exceeding the permitted speed from 31 kilometres per hour to 40 kilometres per hour). A fine has been imposed. The Decision entered into force on 21 September 2022. And another violation committed by Juris Pouce. On 25 September 2022, the Patrol Police Division of the State Police Administration of Zemgale Region adopted a decision on an infringement under Section 55, 11th part of the Road Traffic Law (on speeding of authorised speed from 31 kilometres per hour to 40 kilometres per hour). A fine has been imposed. The Decision entered into force on 12 October 2022. Edmund Teirumnieks. On September 5, 2022, the Ogres branch of the State Police Administration of the Order Police Administration of Riga Region adopted a decision on an infringement under Section 55(7) of the Road Traffic Law (on exceeding the permitted speed from 21 kilometres per hour to 30 kilometres per hour). A fine has been imposed. The Decision entered into force on 22 September 2022. Aldis Gobzems. On 9 December 2021, a decision was taken by the Western Police Department of the Latgale Region Department of Order Police in accordance with Section 25 of the Law “On Meetings, Processions and Pickets” (on violation of the established procedure for organising and organising meetings, moves and pickets). A fine has been imposed. The Decision entered into force on 10 October 2022. The next one applies to Aldi Gobzem. On 6 December 2021, a decision was taken on the violation in accordance with Article 25 of the Law on Meetings, Moves and Pickets. On February 9, 2022, a judgment was made in Riga district court regarding the amendment of the punishment measure. A fine has been imposed. The judgment entered into force on 15 September 2022. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U6	Thank you to the rapporteur. Dear colleagues, please, take your seats in Saeima's meeting room! We're going on. Changes to the agenda adopted by the Bureau The Foreign Affairs Commission asks for changes to the approved agenda... asks the draft law “On the termination of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway on the termination of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway on the promotion and protection of mutual investment” to be examined at first reading. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. We are starting to look at the amended agenda. Examination of draft laws. Draft law on ‘Amendment to the European Parliament Election Law’, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U7	Dear Members and honourable Members, On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call for the draft law on the European Parliament Election Law to be examined at third, final reading. No proposal was received from the Commission for the third reading of the draft law. The Commission has supported the examination of draft laws at third, final, final reading. On behalf of the Commission, I call on you, the honourable Saeima, to support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U8	Thank you. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the third, final, final reading of the draft law on the European Parliament Election Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U9	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U10	Draft law on the amendment to the Criminal Law, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U11	Hello, colleagues! We're going on. The Legal Commission has examined the draft law “Amendment to the Criminal Law” (No. 1412/Lp13). At the Commission’s meeting, we brought together two draft laws in a single draft law: this draft law also included the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Law” (No. 1498/Lp13). In general, we have examined a number of proposals. 1. - Proposal for a law amending the Criminal Law (No. 1498/Lp13). This proposal provides for the establishment of a regulatory framework that will enable the drinker driver to confiscate a car. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U12	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U13	2. - Proposal for a law amending the Criminal Law (No. 1498/Lp13). This is also linked to the same thing - to the confiscation of a car to a drunken driver - and to what should be done if this car is not his. In other words, he must compensate for the value of the car - full or partial. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U14	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U15	3. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. This provides for a change in the amount of the penalty laid down in Article 243 of the Criminal Law, from two to three years. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U16	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U17	4. - Proposal for a law amending the Criminal Law (No. 1498/Lp13). It is envisaged to align the Criminal Law with the definition of vehicles under the Road Traffic Act. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U18	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U19	5. - also a proposal from the draft law amending the Criminal Law (No. 1498/Lp13). The amount of the fine shall be specified. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U20	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U21	6. - also a proposal from the draft law amending the Criminal Law (No. 1498/Lp13). Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U22	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U23	And seven. - Andrey Judin's proposal. The idea was to impose a criminal penalty for forgery and misuse of the vehicle registration plate. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U24	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U25	Good morning, colleagues! I will call on you to vote contrary to the committee's vote. So I ask you to listen and think about what to do. So I tabled a proposal to Article 265 of the Criminal Law. Currently, Article 265 also provides among other activities for liability for forgery of the vehicle registration number. So counterfeiting is a criminal offence. However, we do not have criminal responsibility for using a false mark. The liability for the counterfeiting, including not in full but in certain cases, is provided for in the Road Traffic Act. And there's a paradoxal situation, the one who makes... we believe that he is a criminal; he who orders and uses counterfeiting is not liable under the criminal law. We had two sub-committee meetings where we discussed these issues. We invited representatives of the police, the Ministry of the Interior and other institutions. And what do we find? Unfortunately, for the Ministry, I am talking about the Ministry of the Interior, there is no understanding of the issue, because at the time when we are talking about using counterfeiting, they are beginning to talk about souvenirs. Counterfeit is not a souvenir; the use of the Counterfeit must be punishable. You can imagine a situation where, for example, a false document is called criminally, but someone who presents a fraud is not criminally held responsible? Can you imagine that someone who counterfeits, such as the euro or dollars, is criminally punishable, but that who tries to pay by counterfeiting is not criminally punished? And the institutions also say, well, it's a souvenir. Colleagues, this activity is detrimental enough to criminalise it. Question: "Why are we talking about responsibility now?" Two months ago, the police reported that three criminal proceedings and 15 administrative proceedings related to administrative offences related to Russian vehicles had been initiated. So one person we call criminal responsibility, the other one we call administrative responsibility. That is not right. Talking about institutions... I saw and heard arguments I wanted to tell you. One argument was that they were souvenirs and should not be prosecuted. Well, how can a fake be called a souvenir?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Next, a representative of the Ministry of Transport said that there is a big problem: someone can put the word behind the glass and the radar cannot read it. Is that a problem? Yeah, that's a problem. Question: "What is the connection with this proposal?" And the situation is like this: one ministry questioned the proposal because they have souvenirs in their head, the other ministry said that there is a problem that behind the glass there is, let's say, such a number and radars it is difficult to read it, and, of course, Members have the idea that they do not support anything. Once again, the proposal is very simple: for counterfeiting is criminal responsibility, it should also be criminal responsibility to use counterfeiting. Please support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U26	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U27	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Hello, colleagues! I'm reminded of this... I have not taken part in this Directorate-General for Legal Affairs, but, Andrej Judine, you have taken part in the Directorate-General for Human Rights and Public Affairs on George's tapes. And this polemic reminds me exactly the same thing. The Ministry of the Interior could not define what is actually George's tapes... and that they cannot be banned, that is, what orange pantone is used for, what is the ratio of colors - black to orange... that we cannot look at it. It is possible that you have the colours of George's tape, Mr Latkovsky. I also mentioned this example from the Ministry of the Interior. So it was here that the Saeima was simply taking the lead and we voted - George's tapes are banned. Here, when you hear this polemic... Andrey just told me you can't ban something and the souvenir is that and that... Imagine the situation: you have a passport, and I've been written there... Well, it's not my passport, it's a German passport, my picture inside... What's happening to me at the airport? Or, let's assume, I took my car and put it on “Artuss”. I'd like a number like white with black letters or gold or green... Well, think about it, but you can't do it, but I'll be deprived of my rights and the car will be confiscated. A What will you do to someone who has been given the right in another country? What are you gonna do to him? You can't deprive him of his right. Not possible. Technically... legally impossible. You can call him to some kind of responsibility, but in this way he will pay, let us accept EUR 100 in administrative punishment and go further with his numbers. For us, Riga is crowded... I don't know how to be with you in Jēkabpils, but Riga is filled with these signs... car signs that you don't understand what that number is from which country it is, but now, the artist has worked, you can see. I think colleagues, this is where you last in your term... Those who have... 74 Members here are the last vote... Vote for the criminal responsibility of those stickers who drive on the streets of Latvia with totally unregistered, unacceptable car numbers, which cannot be identified in any way. They're putting cars where they want. Absolutely! They're going to... for artists, apologies, photo-radarists, as you wish, at least 130-140 kilometers per hour, because it's sport already, you're unpunished, you can do what you want. No rules, no country of fools, no rules, no rules, no numbers we want. Then we show respect for ourselves, please! We are voting in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U28	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U29	On behalf of the Commission, I can only confirm what Andrey Judin said, and what Artus Kaimiņa said, that in fact, the substance of the proposal... There were no objections to the proposal as such, but given that the institutions did not really know how to explain it (Interpretative statement: “Forgive fools, release!” ), how will it be applied and how will it be distinguished, and so on, that is to say, there was no support from the institutions, so the Commission voted against this proposal by Andrejs Judine.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U30	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - Andrey Judeen's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 64, no, 17, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U31	As a result, we have examined all the proposals in the draft law on the amendment to the Criminal Law (No. 1412/Lp13). The Commission supported the draft law at third reading. I also call on my colleagues to support the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U32	Thank you for your report. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the draft law on criminal law, third, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft Act ‘Amendment to the Road Traffic Law’, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U33	In the Legal Commission, we examined the draft law “Amendment to the Road Traffic Law” (No. 1499/Lp13). Before the third reading, one proposal was received and examined by the Commission. 1. - The legal commission's proposal. In particular, the proposal was received in the form of a letter, and in the Commission we have this proposal from the Farmers' Saeima, which was defined as a proposal by the Legal Commission, to change the age limits for the driving of tractors when it is possible to drive a tractor with a reduction of one year - from 16 to 15 years and from 17 to 16 years respectively... Supported by the Commission. I call on my colleagues to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U34	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U35	Consequently, there are no more proposals. In the Commission, the draft law was supported. I call on my colleagues to support the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U36	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law "Amendment to the Road Traffic Law" in the third, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Labour Law”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social Affairs and Labour, Member Evita Zālīte-Grosa.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U37	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! I welcome all of this term in its concluding session. The Commission of Social and Labour Affairs has examined and supported the draft law “Amendments to Labour Law” at third reading (No. 1614/Lp13). One proposal has been received. 1. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. It is foreseen that the State will compensate the municipalities for the costs associated with raising the minimum monthly wage. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U38	Members shall not object. ( The utterances: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Vote? Please call me! Let us vote on the proposal from the Group of the Greens/ Farmers' Union! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft law... Sorry, the proposal has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U39	Yes, there are no more proposals. I therefore call on the Commission to support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U40	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law "Amendments to Labour Law" in the third, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 77, for - no, for - 1. The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U41	Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U42	Draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on Solidarity Measures for the Protection of Security of Gas Supply”, first reading. Member Atis Lejiņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U43	The Office, colleagues! The Foreign Affairs Commission unanimously adopted the draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on Solidarity Measures for the Protection of Security of Gas Supply” (No. 1666 Lp13). Put simply, yesterday, the European... the World Energy Agency said that, for the first time in world history, there was an energy crisis caused by Russia's war against Ukraine. The European Union has adopted the regulation that we have taken over, and this will ensure that we have gas. We have an interconnection with Lithuania, and Lithuania has Klaipeda. We have Inčukalns, and Inčukalns has a lot of Lithuanian gas. And that's simple: if we can't get gas, then Lithuania will help us, and if Lithuania doesn't give gas, then we will help Lithuania. That's just what it is. I therefore call on you to unanimously support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U44	Let us first decide on urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U45	What?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U46	It's a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U47	Yes, of course, the urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U48	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on Solidarity Measures for the Protection of Security of Gas Supply”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent. Let us comply with Mr Leieniņa's request: let us vote in favour of the draft law at first reading. Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was approved at first reading. And...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U49	I propose that we vote on the second vote immediately (interim.) ... without review... Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U50	Do Members have objections? Do Members have objections? No, no objections. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on Solidarity Measures for the Protection of Security of Gas Supply” at second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Estonia on Solidarity Measures for the Protection of Security of Gas Supply”. Member Atis Lejiņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U51	Now this is exactly the same thing that we have just voted about Lithuania, except that the word “Lithuanian” has been replaced by the word “Estonia”. And it's bill No. 1667/Lp13. I will not repeat what I said because we also have interconnection with Estonia. It's all right - we help the Estonians, and the Estonians help us. I also call for this draft law to be adopted as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U52	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Estonia on Solidarity Measures for the Protection of Security of Gas Supply”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U53	Please accept first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U54	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Estonia on Solidarity Measures for the Protection of Security of Gas Supply”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U55	Please accept the second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U56	Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Please call me! We will vote for support for the second, final reading of the draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Estonia on Solidarity Measures for the Protection of Security of Gas Supply”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U57	Thank you, we're safe.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U58	Thank you to Mr Leiens for his report. Draft Act on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway on the Promotion and Protection of Mutual Investments between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U59	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, In its meeting, the Foreign Affairs Commission looked at the draft law “On the termination of the first reading agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway on the termination of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway on the promotion and protection of mutual investment” and also supported further progress at first reading... And beyond the denunciation of this agreement and the treaty. This process was initiated by the Norwegian Party. On 24 September 2021, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs received a letter No. 15/21, in which Norway proposed to open negotiations in order to terminate this same agreement between Latvia and the Norwegian Government on the promotion and protection of mutual investment. The agreement between Latvia and Norway is about the promotion and protection of mutual investment and is part of so-called old generation investment agreements. These old generation contracts are characterised by general wording, lack of reservations and exceptions that clarify investors' obligations, while leaving countries the opportunity to change their policies and their respective regulatory frameworks to meet public interests and needs. These features make the old generation of contracts dangerous for countries - the defendants - in private ad hoc arbitration when the claims of investors from the other contracting State are brought against them. The particularly high risk of compensation from countries not only being compensated for the losses suffered, but also for the loss of profits... For these reasons, the old-generation contracts have provided the basis for investors to receive compensation from the host countries, measured not only in millions but in billions of euros. All these costs are borne by the taxpayers. The situation with the application of investment contracts to private arbitrations, by allocating huge amounts to investors from national budgets, has led to criticism and pressure from the general public, non-governmental organisations, academics. It is noted that it is unacceptable that national public funds decisions are taken by individuals who are not entities of public authority with responsibility towards the public. Several international organisations, including the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, have called on countries to terminate or modernise their old generation treaties. If no agreement on termination conditions is reached, Norwegian No. 24 September 2021 15/21 is considered to be a declaration of denunciation of a contract under the terms of Article 13 of the Treaty. And taking into account the volume of mutual investment flows between Latvia and Norway, Latvia has a higher risk that it is being brought before an international ad hoc arbitration court on the basis of a complaint by Norwegian investors. Norwegian direct investment in Latvia amounts to about 460 million euros, while Latvian investment in Norway amounts to 20 million euros. The agreement on termination of the investment agreement between Latvia and Norway is in line with global trends in the investment regime policy, as well as fully in line with the guidelines of the European Union investment policy. By reducing the number of bilateral investment protection agreements, Latvia both reduces the risks of international litigation and provides a more uniform and thus more predictable legal framework in the European Union. Colleagues in the Commission had a wide-ranging discussion about this, and representatives of the sectors were invited - from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Agriculture, as well as from the industry companies concerned by the existing proceedings concerning the Kingdom of Norway. The Foreign Affairs Commission decided to direct its draft Foreign Affairs Commission by adding an annotation to the reference to the fact that after the denunciation of the treaty... the denunciation of the contract does not affect the proceedings in force. Consequently, any further (after denunciation) settlement of disputes will take place through national courts. On behalf of the Foreign Affairs Commission, I ask colleagues to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U60	Thank you for your explanation. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U61	Very respectful Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, Thank you to Mr Kola for his report on this bill. But, in the opinion of the Greens/Earthers Union, however, we want to draw attention to one particular factor in this specific agreement: that there is, however, a valid and active procedure, which is most directly affected by this agreement. And that's it. If we are talking about these volumes, we should not worry about the investments made in Latvia. Here annotated the investment of 463 million from Norway has been carried out. And I am sure that we treat our investors respectfully, and there is no dispute here, but Latvian entrepreneurs are now in actual court proceedings with the Norwegian Government. And these are very large amounts of money that are being tried. And as we have been informed by the FAO Group, there will be an active judicial process this year, with the most direct references to these investment protection agreements. And these, of course, are these fisheries... crab questions. So that I would call for this decision to be seen, in particular, to be emphasised... and that is why we, too, in this debate today (for this verbatim report to remain)... that the interests of our entrepreneurs must be defended. It must not be that we make concessions, we simply put an end to this Treaty and, in the end, our business interests are not being defended. Colleagues, we, the Union of Greens/Farmers, do not see at this point how we could support the termination of this treaty, given the circumstances, which are the background for all these actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U62	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Rihard Cole. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U63	Yeah, I guess I'll talk more than the Head of the Foreign Affairs Commission. These issues were, of course, dealt with at an enlarged commission meeting. As I mentioned, a Latvian investor, who has this active litigation, mentioned by you, also took part in the meeting of the commission. Of course, the Foreign Affairs Commission is neither a prosecutor nor a judge to study what is the subject of the dispute, but what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has drawn attention to is that these risks exist. If we do not support this agreement that has been reached between Norway and Latvia bilaterally... By mutual agreement to denounce, Norway shall proceed to denounce this Agreement or this Agreement independently of it. It's not just a case of Latvia, it's a false information that is distributed in the name of some goals that is precisely because of this... Norway wants to denounce this treaty for the sake of the proceedings that you mentioned, so that there is no further judicial procedure. Norway, next to Latvia, denounces investment agreements with eight other countries. This is a package, and therefore the statement that it would be in some way directly related to the particular case, I allow, is an interpretation from probably Latvian investors. But, colleagues, I will remind you what the risks have been and how much the participation of Latvian taxpayers in such... which are international ad hoc arbitration courts. Let us remind you - proceedings with Sweden (Not heard.) ... ship)... Latvia has won individual proceedings, but it has cost taxpayers around EUR 3 million. The question is, how is it going? if this Treaty is denounced, as is the case at national court level, all rights reserved to address these issues remain accordingly. And so, as I said, there is also a direct reference to the argument that... which draws attention to the fact that the Norwegian Party also has a statement (interim statement.) ... You can come to the debate, Mr. Plant, not to talk from the floor. ( Internouncing call.) It's the last time you can. And so here... We see that the Latvian Parliament has denounced equivalent agreements with Sweden, with Finland, with Austria including in this term. And there is no evidence that any of the opponents in this context has put forward this argument. What we got... Colleagues, this is the first reading; there will certainly also be a second reading in Parliament (I very much hope that the next Saeima will take over this bill). And we received confirmation from the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that an amendment would be tabled - a proposal to change the agreement... So the denunciation treaty... the date of entry into force. Mr. Valaiņš said that the proceedings could take place by the end of this year, or even pull in a bit at the beginning of next year... that it could not have any direct effect on... and that provisional termination of the agreement... The entry into force period would be February next year. So... I also finished the debate at the time... Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U64	I closed the debate. And on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U65	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U66	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway on the termination of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway on the promotion and protection of mutual investment! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U67	Proposals for a second reading are due by 9 a.m. on 1 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U68	So the deadline for the proposals is 9 a.m. on 1 November this year. Thank you, Mr. Cole. The agenda has therefore been examined. I will also inform you of the answers to Members' questions that were scheduled for tonight. The question of the Members Jūlija Stepanenko, Alda Gobzema, Karina Srūde, Lubova Švekova and Ainars Vilciņš, Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Arturs Toms Plēšs, about the disconnection of villages of Skulte and Cleansamines from electricity supply. The written responses received are not satisfied, but the Minister informs that it is not possible to arrive and give an oral reply due to the load and other planned works. The question by the Member Ramonas Petravičs, Māra Možvillo, Kaspars Ģirgens, Ralfa Nemiro and Ainārs Vilciņš, the Minister of Health Daniels Pavļutas, “On the number and use of Covid-19 vaccines reserved, purchased and delivered.” The written responses received are not satisfactory, but the Minister does not wish to ask additional oral questions. The question of the Members Ramona Petraviča, Māra Možvillo, Karina Sprūde, Jūlia Stepanenko and Ainārs Vilciņš, the Minister for Health, Daniel Pavļutas, about the mortality of the population since the Covid-19 infection spread. The written responses received are not satisfactory, but the Minister does not wish to ask additional oral questions. The question to the Minister of Health Daniels Pavluts, about the effectiveness of Covid-19 vaccines and vaccination statistics, by Ramona Petravičs, Māra Možvillo, Karina Sprūde, Julia Stepanenko and Ainārs Vilciņš, is a question for Members. The written responses received are not satisfactory, but the Minister does not wish to ask additional oral questions. So, honourable colleagues, we close the legendary, very difficult 13. The Saeima works. Thank you all for your work. (Applause) I'm closing the sitting. And tonight at 18.00 we all meet at the Latvian National Theatre. Everyone is welcome! Please register the Members! Please get the result! Name of Member Andrejs Klementyev to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U69	Yeah, thank you. High honourable Members! Not registered: Aigars Bikše, Aldis Gobzems, Marija Golubeva, Rihards Kols... I just saw him somewhere... Ināra Mūrniece, Romanas Naudiņš, Igors Pimenovs, Sandis Riekstins, Andris Skride, Karina Sprūde, Edgars Tavars, Jānis Urbanovičs, Inese Voika and Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-10-27-PT13-2415-U70	I'm closing the sitting.
