ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! Let's start the sitting of the Saeima on May 19, 2022. First of all, the amendments tabled to the agenda of the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is asking for the draft law on the first reading of the Internal Security Fund, the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund and the Financial Support Instrument for Border Management and visa policy for the programming period 2021-2027 to be included on the agenda of the meeting. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission is asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”” at first reading. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? The order of business has been amended. The Commission of Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption asks for the draft decision to be included on the agenda of the meeting “On the Order of 11 May 2022 of the Cabinet of Ministers No. 324 amending Order of 10 August 2021. 518 ‘Proclaiming an emergency’. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Application requests that the statement of Ms Golubeva be included on the agenda of the sitting. Renewing the mandate of a Member of the Saeima’. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. Members Ramona Petraviča, Jūlija Stepanenko, Karina Sprūde, Lubova Švecova, Maris Možvillo and others are asking to include a draft decision on the extension of the deadline for submitting proposals in the draft law on civil union (No. 1380/Lp13) for the third reading until 30 October 2022.’ ‘ Ramona Petraviča, a Member, has applied to speak about’.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U2	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, This proposal, this draft decision, is intended to extend the deadline for the submission of proposals for the draft law on civil union until 30 October this year. Colleagues! I have said on several occasions that the draft law on civil union is nothing more than a post-marital marriage except... with one derogation, that partners in such a union should not be loyal to each other. ( The ring of noise.) It degrades the natural...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U3	One moment, Mrs. Petravič... Mrs. Petravič, one moment! ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U4	It degrades the natural family in Latvia and threatens its future existence, the possibility for parents to raise children according to their beliefs – morally. And the moment will soon come when the Civil Union law will have to protect families not only with two partners but also with several - and citizens of any country... and perhaps also with objects, because currently the only argument of the Ministry of Justice, why families with two partners are protected, is that such an application has not yet been made in the Constitutional Court. The draft law of the Civil Union has not been discussed enough, the opinions of non-governmental organizations have not been heard, they have not even been taken into account, and now - in the cover of war and in the shadow of the monument - attempts are made to drive it out quickly through all three readings. Note that first of all, in the judgment of the Constitutional Court it is stated that there are a large number of vulnerable family structures against which the legislator currently applies unevenly, but this does not point to necessity (the Hall of Noise). The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) legalise same-sex marriages, which the draft Civil Union law actually provides for in this version. It is possible to solve its problems in a different way - by adjusting the Labour Law, providing an opportunity for those living together to enter into contracts and notarily approve the mandate - and such a solution would not jeopardise the concept of the natural family and the demographics of Latvia. Second, remember that children in these families will never understand whether they would have liked the natural family because they would never have experienced it. They will never choose or will not be able to choose a natural family. ‘ Member State shall indicate with ‘Y’ (yes) or ‘N’ (no). 1’ and ‘parent No 2” or two moms – it degrades the child’s understanding of the need for a natural family, never determining the responsibilities of the family on the father’s or mother’s shoulders... And thirdly, our President of Latvia has rightly pointed out that the introduction of a partnership for both heterosexual and homosexual couples... under the jurisdiction of the European Court of Human Rights on the prohibition of discrimination... it leads to the inevitable introduction of same-sex marriages, which is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia. In addition to the problems already identified with regard to same-sex marriages, the adoption of such contradictory decisions would reinforce the polarisation already existing in society, fuel hatred and undermine confidence in public administration. And - either knowingly or unconsciously - Article 8 provides that an existing civil union shall not be allowed to marry someone other than the one with whom the civil union has not been concluded. So it can be quite legitimately used as an excuse for concluding the same-sex couple marriage, first concluding the civil union. And for all these reasons, in order to be able to fully discuss and consider all possible risks, I call for the amendment of this draft law and support... to set the deadline for tabling proposals at 30 October of this year and to discuss this issue at today's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U5	Thank you. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? So we will have to vote. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the extension of the deadline of the draft law on civil union (No. 1380/Lp13) for the third reading until 30 October 2022.’ Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 41 (Applause) , against - 30, abstaining - 1. So the decision is taken - the draft decision is on the agenda of the sitting. Dear colleagues! I must inform you that the Saeima Bureau has received a statement from the Prime Minister stating that on 16 May this year the Prime Minister has accepted Mrs Golubeva's application for resignation from the Minister of the Interior and has announced it to the Saeima, so today... Draft decisions submitted and included on the agenda of the sitting of the Saeima on 19 May of this year No. 921/Lm13 and No 922/Lm13 - “For distrust to Minister for the Interior Marija Golubeva”. We will therefore begin to examine the agenda of the meeting, which has already been amended. On the agenda - approval and termination of the parliamentary term. Communication on Maria Golubeva 13. The renewal of the parliamentary term of office of a Member of the Saeima. Ainars Latkovskis, Member of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U6	Good morning, colleagues! In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 5 of the parliamentary roll and with the application of Ms Marija Golubeva of 17 May 2022 to restore to her the mandate of a Member of the Saeima, which she had appointed for the duration of her ministerial office, the Saeima Mandate, Ethics and Application Commission declares that Ms Marija Golubeva is being renewed 13. The mandate of a Member of the Saeima. Consequently, 13. Member of the Saeima shall cease to be a member of the Saeima, whose mandate has been approved by the Saeima for a period of time from Party to Development/Par! The elected member of the list of candidates in the Riga Electoral Region shall perform the duties of the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U7	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, so we have heard the statement. I invite Marija Golubeva to take a place in Saeima's meeting room, and we thank Maris Micherevskis for his work in the Latvian Parliament. On the agenda - reports from the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” presented by Karina Sprūde, Māra Možville, Ramona Petraviča, Alda Gobzema, Julia Stepanenko and Kaspars Girgen be referred to the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible. ‘ Karina Sprūde, Member, has applied to speak about”
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U8	Good morning, honourable colleagues! Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! I'd like to ask if all of you had breakfast today, if you drank coffee, or if you had milk. I have the feeling, the fear, even if it cannot be that the National Association stood on the table like “Alma” products from Estonia; or it could not be that the New Conservative Party stood on the table like “Tere” products. It's all funny if it wasn't all so sad. However, when we talk about value added tax, let us remember - Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš in 2005, as the Minister of Economics in the Government led by Aigars Kalvitis, himself called for a reduction in VAT on food. At the time, he stressed that the poor would benefit; that the low-income people would benefit from the tax reduction; that the reduction in food prices for disadvantaged families could in general reach five percent, as in lower-income households, the proportion of consumption basket expenditure on food products is almost twice as high as in average families. Karin made a similar proposal in 2012 as a Member of the European Parliament. At that time, he also stressed that this would help the poor. I quote: "If it is decided to reduce VAT, it would have a greater effect on citizens precisely by reducing VAT on food. The reduction of VAT on food would benefit, first of all, the poorest citizens." Interesting, what happened to Karina during these years? Did he stop caring for the less prosperous, or was the plan changed? Or is it perhaps now the strategy to beat people into hunger, to get the most desperate, so that, just before the elections, the coalition can arrive as soldiers in white horses, save the people from poverty and finally reduce their VAT? It's nothing that the opposition's been trying to do this a long time ago, trying to... to do without the stage when people really don't have money to buy food for which to pay bills... Well, like the proposal put forward by the opposition and the draft law on support for premature children, who have been storing dust for two years now, lying in the drawer of Mr Skrides without a move. But just the new conservative party proudly presented an identical... to lighten the feathers and pretend that someone in a coalition cares at all - without them themselves. VAT revenues have also increased as a result of rising price levels. Planned this year... Total annual VAT revenue is estimated at 341 million more than last year. In the first four months, VAT was EUR 1.07 billion, which is EUR 240 million more than in the same period last year. VAT revenue has already reached 35 percent of the planned annual amount. Over the last five years, this proportion has been between 26.4 and 30.8 percent. We can afford to reduce VAT, but money is enough. I ask to allow people to buy quality food. I ask people to put fuel into the car so that they can go to work. I asked everyone to have Valmiera or Limbaži's milk production on the table in the morning. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U9	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Internouncing call.) Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax (No. 1464/Lp13) transfer to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, making it a responsible commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 32, for - 34, for - 7. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Agencies” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Explosives for Civil Purposes” presented by the Cabinet be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes the Member Viktoras Valaiņa, Armands Krauze, Janis Dūklavs, Ulda Augulis, Raimonds Bergmanis and other draft law submitted "Amendment to the Ukrainian Civil Support Law" (No. 1470/Lp13) transferred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the Commission responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U10	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, With this tabled draft law, we wanted to raise the subject so that these support instruments, which are available to the public, too. As we have discussed today, in the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption, Members have already decided this week, so we are withdrawing this bill and not voting on it. I don't know how it is after the procedure, but I withdraw my signature if it's enough... probably not enough. But we no longer have this draft law... We do not hold back because the matter has already been resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U11	So Member Viktors Valainis informs that the signature of the submitted draft law “Amendment to the Ukrainian Civil Support Law” is being withdrawn (No. 1470 Lp13). But the draft law is not withdrawn from the agenda, and we must vote on it... I understand that the Member has also called on the Saeima to vote in favour. ( Internouncing call.) You did not call for a vote, but you withdrew your signature. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? Please call me! Vote on the draft law “Amendment to the law on civilian support for Ukraine” (No. 1470/Lp13) transfer to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, making it a responsible commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 29, for - 36, for - 6. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia” submitted by the Member Valija Agešina, Jānis Urbanoviča, Andrejs Klementyeva, Jānis Tutinas and Artūra Rubika be submitted to all commissions, stating that the Legal Commission is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Valery Agešins.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U12	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, One of the major disasters in Latvia is the lack of a true democracy. A president appointed by the coalition, without the support of the people, a voter of the Saeima without any opinion in competition... In the name of the majority of the people in parliament, laws are adopted by an ever-increasing minority. It is a imitation of democracy. As a result, fewer and fewer citizens participate in elections and people lose confidence in the possibility of change. In Latvia, there is a habit of saying and promising everything that comes into your mind before the elections, but after the elections, pretend that it has already been just a pre-election rhetoric or some bad misunderstanding. For example, on a regular basis, every four years, almost all parties promise voters to lead the idea of a people's elected president. Of course, it is important to remember that the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia is a monument of legal thought, which should be supplemented and corrected with great responsibility and caution, however, the letter and spirit of the Satversme is based on the idea of the Latvian people as a higher carrier of power - the source of power of all state institutions. Dissatisfaction with parties is growing, many people believe that the only hope is a fundamental change in public administration, and we are all very well aware that many people in Latvia want to decide who will lead our country. The President of Latvia must not be the subject of a political market, so we are convinced that the citizens of our country must have the right to choose independently the most appropriate person, the authority that will be able to effectively manage the country. Amendments to the Constitution are necessary, and the current election procedure of the President of Latvia needs to be changed. The President must be elected to the people. The Latvian people are not more aware than the leaders elected by 100 people. This post should include a person with knowledge, skills, skills and an understanding of how to reduce the fragmentation of society and improve the well-being of the population. The extent of the powers of the President of Latvia should not be assessed in conjunction with changes in the election procedure. The people's elected President does not need more powers, as the Head of State has every opportunity to act effectively and responsibly, making smart use of the powers conferred on him by the Constitution. For example, one of the instruments that the Presidents of our country could use more actively is the convocation of government sittings. The success of a people's elected president will be determined by his own conviction, the pressure of supporters, his spine and energy, the ability and willingness to use the power tools that the President has to direct his ideas. The President of Latvia has a greater opportunity to express his opinion and to be heard than anyone else in our country. And the nation would also be more trusted to a nation-selected president than the one elected by the parliament. A people's elected president would promote the consolidation of democracy in our country, giving citizens the right not only to elect a president, but also to appreciate his activities. WELCOMES the extension of the possibilities of popular participation in decision-making. It is important for Latvia's state to maintain a stable political link with its citizens, so we expect a rational parliamentary discussion on improving the constitutional system. The constituents are always right! I call for the vote in favour. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U13	Thank you. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? ( Milestones.) Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia” to all commissions, stating that the Legal Commission is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has not been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the Member Karina Sprūde, Alda Gobzema, Erika Pucena, Māra Možvillo and Julia Stepanenko refer the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Karina Sprūde, Member, has applied to speak about”
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U14	Good morning, honourable colleagues, again! If five minutes ago I mentioned the New Conservative Party and the National Association, because I cannot understand their motivation why they vote against this bill, then the question arises as to why “Development/About!” vote against this draft. And then I remembered the annual report by Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš to the Saeima on the work done and planned by the Cabinet of Ministers and remembered... When Skride spoke. I was very interested to listen because he is a doctor, he is a specialist - he should listen. And he said a saying like that... No saying... He pointed out that the Ministry of Health had two main tasks and that the main tasks were digitisation and diet. Can you imagine? How We Value People! Are they really the main tasks for the Ministry of Health that healthy lifestyles, health can be maintained through diets and digitalization? Is this the basis for human existence? Are these words about health? I do not know how many Members read any news at all, including foreign media, studies, analyses available in foreign languages. I hope, of course, that everyone has read, but I would like to quote a little from the European Parliament study on the economic consequences of hostilities in Ukraine. As a call from... The European Parliament's recommendation pointed to the need to prevent the impact of high food and energy prices on vulnerable households and businesses. And it's clear that there are two ways to do it. One path is a concrete direct payment to people, but it would be almost impossible to identify these people in the economic situation of Latvia. This huge rise in prices affects not only families with poor or poor status, but also all the others. And we don't need the middle class to become poor. It should be borne in mind that we do not have a minimum wage of EUR 2000 as in Western Europe. I was talking last week about what salaries are, what jobs people are offering. In Latvia, they are 600-800 euros on paper - before tax. The second route is taxation. At least a temporary equalisation of the increase in the price of goods must be achieved, and that is what the European Parliament is saying. And this bill is about it. With this reduced VAT on primary demand for food and fuel... It must be recognised that the policy so far has led to job opportunities... and inability... There are more in Riga than in the regions. People go to Riga to work from Adaži, from Saulkrasti, from Sigulda, from Ogres, from Tukums... People go as far as a hundred miles in one direction to work to provide for their families. The car and fuel for these people is a primary necessity. There is no argument not to support this draft law; the damage is not to support this draft law. It is a crime against the population of the country. And this must be adopted now. Colleagues, it's been three months. It is time to be decisive, it is time to follow the recommendations of the European Parliament, it is time to do something. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U15	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax (No. 1472/Lp13) transfer to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, making it a responsible commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 32, it's against - 40, it's not. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Pensions” presented by Ramona Petraviča, Māra Možvillo, Alda Gobzema, Karina Sprūde and Ralfa Nemiro be referred to the Commission on Social Affairs and Labour, according to which it is the committee responsible. ‘ Ramona Petraviča, a Member, has applied to speak about’.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U16	Colleagues, the draft law provides for amendments to the law on state pensions, replacing the word ‘two’ in the second paragraph of Article 37 with the word ‘three’. And that would read: ‘In the event of the death of the pensioner, his family or the person who has taken the funeral pay a funeral allowance of three months’ pension...’. Thus, instead of the previous two pensions, including the pension premium for the accumulated insurance period until 31 December 1995. Due to the rapid increase in service costs and fuel costs to spend respectfully on the deceased, it is not enough to have two pensions, as is currently the case. Taking into account also the fact that a large proportion of seniors’ pensions do not exceed EUR 300, more precisely, 46 000 pensioners receive a pension below EUR 200, 65 000 pensioners receive pensions between EUR 200 and EUR 300, a total of 80 percent of all pensioners receive a pension up to EUR 500. As a result, a two-month pension does not allow your relative to be properly buried. Funeral services cost about 900 euros. If you use cremation services, it's 1200 euros, it's 200 euros, it's 100 euros. Please support the draft law and give relatives with honour and respect the opportunity to say goodbye to the deceased without imposing any further credit burden on themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U17	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On State Pensions” to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 34, against - 41, abstaining - not. The draft law shall not be forwarded to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Energy” presented by Member Viktors Valaiņa, Ulda Augulis, Jānis Vucanas, Jānis Dūklavs, Janīna Jalinska and Gundars Many be referred to the National, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, stating that it is a commission responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U18	Dear colleagues, For some time now, we have been talking very intensively with both local governments and the peat industry about the way in which peat could be increasingly involved in the energy crisis. If we accept current scientific evidence, then about 1.6 million tons of peat accumulate in Latvia within a year, but rarely when the acquisition totals we have managed to exceed 1.2 million tons of total peat soil area in Latvia. According to the national inventory report, currently in Latvia it is 6.6 percent, while in other literature it is found - 10 percent of the land is formed directly by peat. If we believe in this science (at the moment we say very much in Latvia that we have to trust in science), then there are quite objective facts that Latvia is not a major oil and gas production power, but that nature has given us its wealth, and it is a peat that unfortunately we do not understand and do not know how to use its full potential in the interests of our economy and citizens. We have a national, strategic resource, and it's a peat. Colleagues, we have come with a statement that we will give up Russian gas. That is right, we have all made such a decision, but we must be prepared for it. We must be prepared, seize every opportunity and act now. We must not act, and right now! - must send out a clear signal to the whole sector, which will change in the autumn when it comes to 'fueling' again... our cities, our regions, our central heating systems must be launched. Today we have to start the extraction of peat to prepare for it. So far, only a few - some! - (and is in very small amounts) fuel peat is used in heating systems. And there are several reasons for this: both the natural resource tax and the emissions payments that must be made at the moment, if they want to be done in large heatlands. In Latvia, there are large heatlands that are already doing this, but it is unfortunately not effective enough, all these administrative obstacles are too large to do so. I believe that we should give a clear signal to the industry right now, from the legislator. These barriers must be removed, and at this point in time it must be said that the European Green Way... for a couple of years, we must step away from it and take action. The Ministry of Economics is also in the commission... in one... This week mentioned the fact that one can already use peat, and not already lied - peat can be used and, of course, it is being used. But, for example, the fuel requirements in the stations that can be supported - peat can only be used for 10 per cent instead of allowing us to extend the use of peat at national level to up to 30 per cent. Why are we not doing this, why are we not using local resources? We have this opportunity. Requirements for air pollution, where unlike requirements for procedures where calculations are made... the fibres for boilers and peat like fuels are significantly different, even though the fibres are more contaminated than the peat. Colleagues, this is the time when, in our view, we need to think about how to facilitate greater use of peat. We need to think about how we carry out support programmes. There are currently support programmes - from gas to chips, but peat is not there. If you want to buy the technology right now, leaving the gas installation, if you want to buy the technology for another renewable resource, you can only use the technology for building the chips for the boiler. These are the national support programmes of our country. And today the municipalities are starting to write these projects, go to the new boilers... energy independence. Colleagues, look at the prices of the chips today! What do you think they're going to be in the autumn? What wood prices are today! Already today, prices have increased two to three times. We need to think about how to make the most of local resources! I call for the political debate on the more active use of peat in our economies and in our heatlands to be supported and really intensively launched so that this resource does not remain untapped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U19	Mr Maris Možvillo has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U20	Head of the Saeima sitting! Colleagues! A story about what is not prohibited. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy mentioned that the use of peat as a fuel was not prohibited by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Let's assume it's not forbidden, but just... point (foot)... "a little difficulty with the application of the natural resource tax, which has been introduced very recently, and other spooky regulations". But there is a saying: “Snake changes skin once a year, traitor changes skin every day.” We see well the concerns of our government leaders in the face and the promises - my friends, it will be good! But the skin changes after each other so that even the thunder does not stick to it. On 9 May, which paid the post to two ministers, on the TAP portal, on the website of the Cabinet of Ministers, a draft order of the Fair Conversion Fund (a significant name) was published. What, then, is this document? It sells for 184 million of our wealth in billions, the European Union's bureaucrats. This Decision shall be published in the EEA Section of, and in the EEA Supplement to, the Official Journal of the European Union. Does the civil service live in a reality different from that of us and the whole of Latvian society? Is the current untasting surprise for Latvian citizens being prepared from our premiere? Members of the Saeima have only recently discussed the abandonment of Russian energy imports. We were told that the trubs were empty, no gas would enter Latvia anymore. But this document contains a very interesting chapter, page six: "The cessation of the use of peat in energy is also essential in the context of the energy crisis, which began at the end of 2021, as peat as a local natural resource is a cheaper energy resource for usable fossil resources. The increase in natural gas prices poses risks to the wider use of peat for heating purposes. Is it really our country's head in this situation ready to give up the strategic resource of local origin for the use of natural gas, which we are currently importing primarily from the Russian Federation? More recently, in March, a number of non-governmental organisations in the European Union pointed out that the green course looks very linked to gas and Gazprom's lobby in various institutions. It was not in the middle of the year that taxonomy suddenly allowed exceptions to natural gas and many other strangeness to make the European Union entirely dependent on gas imports, rather than on nature, on the sustainable use of resources on the ground. What we do not see - obviously this is not due to emissions either for gain, for transport or for use, because the lobby of the Russian Federation will have purchased all politicians in important positions. It is also a walk-in tradition in Latvia. In 2001 Riga TEC-1 ended the use of peat as fuel, reconstruction took place and natural gas was selected as fuel. Do you know who was in charge of energy at that time? Minister of Economics Aigars Kalvitis. 2004 - Riga TEC-2 reconstruction, which was overshadowed by several scandals, increased dependence on natural gas in Latvian energy. Do you know who the Prime Minister was? Aigars Kalvitis. Do you know who currently runs the gas distribution system operator? I'll repeat the third time, Aigars Kalvitis. In our history, there has been one prime minister with great success in promoting natural gas dependence. Now, it seems, there's a second one, Krišjānis Kariņš. Colleagues, those who are in favour of the further use of Russian gas in energy, please vote in favour. ( The transcripts are: ‘ Against ’!) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U21	Dear colleagues, One Member has spoken for, one against. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Energy Law” to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 31, for - 35, for - 5. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax” presented by Mr. Ulda Augulis, Ms. Janina Jalinska, Ms. Gundars Dauges, Mr. Edgars Tatars and Mr. Janis Dūklavs be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U22	Draft law tabled by my colleagues... These amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax provide for the extension of the block which does not pay the tax on natural resources - to extend it with peat. But, colleagues, let us be honest, this issue is not just about changes to Latvian legislation... in the hands of the European Union's regulations governing payments to large power plants of over 20 megawatts. For large power plants above 20 megawatts, if they choose to use peat, it is now quite simply necessary to buy these quotas. They can buy them for the following year with one month buying peat, no matter how, but on average, this price, the purchase price of peat, increases by two-thirds. And here we have two solutions to deal with the fact that peat resources become, so to speak, more interesting. In terms of price, the peat resource is fully competitive, as no one should be paid at this point in time on market terms. That's all... entrepreneurs are already using it, but yet - two thirds of the price consists of this principle of buying quotas... which large stations have to buy. At the moment, there would be two options here - either the state from the budget to subsidise it (and let us be honest, in this situation hardly anything will happen), or the Ministry of Economics, VARAM... go to Brussels and pray for two or three years in this really crisis situation... Ask for this duty to be abolished because it is unified throughout the European Union. How many countries are there using peat? Not much, our countries are the only countries in the region to use peat. But the conditional access to this resource, I think... and ask for one, two, three... postponing this payment for even one year would be a huge success. And we also call for this to be done. This bill is a way to launch this debate at least in Parliament. I therefore also call on the future Minister to draw attention to this issue and to launch a debate at European Commission level, asking for these deadlines to be postponed. This is the way we can achieve this at the moment - to promote the use of local energy resources. Make the European Commission understand Latvia's problems and our opportunities, most importantly, opportunities. Two thirds of the costs are currently the result of this quota payment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U23	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 32, for - 36, for - 4. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. On the agenda - reports by the Bureau on own-initiative proposals submitted. Members Maris Možvillo, Karina Sprūde, Aldis Gobzems, Ramona Petraviča, Jūlija Stepanenko, Ralfs Nemiro, Lubova Švecova, Kaspars Ģirgens, Romanas Nadiņš and Ieva Krapāne have submitted a draft decision – own-initiative proposal “On the abolition of the mandatory electricity procurement component (OIC)”. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ ) We will therefore have to decide on the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of the next sitting. Mr Možvillo, the Member for inclusion on the agenda of the next sitting, has applied for this. The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U24	Colleagues! I will read one document to refresh the memory of all colleagues who have done so here. Maybe you'll forget. ‘ The Parliament of the Republic of Latvia Decision on the abolition of the electricity mandatory procurement component (OIC) Taking into account that the Saeima adopted a decision No. 29/Lm13 “On the cancellation of the mandatory procurement component”, which provided for the abolition of the mandatory procurement component from 31 March 2019; Taking into account that in the declaration about activities planned by Artura Krišjānis Kariņš, led by the Cabinet of Ministers, the cancellation of the mandatory procurement component was indicated as one of the priorities of government work; Taking into account that the mandatory procurement component for electricity has not been abolished until the preparation of this draft decision, the Saeima invites the Cabinet of Ministers: To complete the decision of the Saeima of 10 January 2019 No. 29/Lm13... and to develop without delay a regulatory framework providing for total waiver of the mandatory procurement component for electricity from 1 July 2022; to perform the full task of the Government Action Plan No. 30 (Event No. 30.1.), which provides for the elimination of the components of the mandatory procurement of electricity;...’ What do we see now? We are now seeing that the bills still contain this component and nothing has changed. And the Cabinet of Ministers has fulfilled its duty. The Cabinet of Ministers has prepared a decision. And I want this lamp. which burns, also thanks to the OIC, to present Krišjānis Feldman, who is currently holding this draft decision to his commission... they are loaded there and not carried away. The autumn is coming, the dark time is coming. Mr. Feldman may light up in this lamp, or Mr. Gaidan may light up. , but will not light up much of Latvia's population, who will not be able to pay for electricity. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “In the mouth... “ And when the neighbor takes the lamp in his mouth and shows that he can hold it there, maybe the OIC will be cancelled.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U25	Mr. Gobzem has applied to speak so 'no' if?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U26	I call on you to vote in favour of this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U27	Mr. Gobzem will talk about or against? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “I will speak against.” ) Aldis Gobzems, a Member, has applied to speak against.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U28	Good morning, colleagues! Good morning, Latvian society! Good morning, photographers! The OIC should have been abolished already 20 years ago, when “Unity” came to power, then the OIC should have been abolished. Today it is essential to tell Latvian society one thing. You're told on the TV that gas has some problems, we don't know how much it will cost, probably it's more expensive, probably there's some price, you have to pull the belts, everybody's got to be like penguins or... Well, because it's cooler, it's gonna have to save water, and so on. But electricity... Dear people don't tell you about electricity in one thing. What happens if Russia announces today or tomorrow that it will not deliver electricity? We have even calculated how much electricity is supplied to Latvia from Russia? Do people even know that? And it's important here to tell... very interesting... Now, here's another summer season... that in Latvia there is something like this: we have HES, we have “Mother Daugava”, where some electricity is produced, which is sent away cheaply through intermediaries, and then we buy Scandinavian... in all of those markets... the expensive electricity back. In addition, there are still OICs, which should not be repealed and should not be repealed. I think I shouldn't, so I already applied to speak against. Although I myself have signed up to the need to cancel, I applied to speak against - because people seem to have enough of what they are told by Panorama, enough of what they are told on television, enough of what the government says - that everything is going to be good, just having to pull the belts. It won't be good! Dear people, will be very, very harsh autumn, very, very harsh winter! And what needs to be said from this troupe today is that you are going to have bills, big electricity bills, big heat bills and all the big ones connected with utility after the elections - in October - and not until the elections. But at least for the residents of Riga it is clear... It has already been decided that they will be about... October, first half of October - around 10 October. After the elections you, dear people, will get bills that you... Most will be forced to visit free kitchens on Barona Street - where there are those crystals. It's today... Talking to religious representatives - Catholics, Lutherans (and so on) - we see that in churches every day more and more people... There are more and more people who are no longer able to pay - already today! - invoices. Every day it's... they are no longer one or two, but already dozens of people every day. And without removing OIC, which is only one part of the story about electricity... But people need to understand that! It is as realistic as the fact that I am standing on this platform right now - you will experience all this after the elections. You will be told before the elections that everything will be okay, but after the elections... in the first month after, you will experience a catastrophic increase in your bills, which will destroy - again and again! - human lives. Therefore, please, dear residents of Latvia, don't take a look at the flags and monuments! This year will be the year of survival, the question of survival. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U29	Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft decision “On the cancellation of the mandatory electricity procurement component (OIC)” on the agenda of the sitting of the Saeima on 26 May! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 32, it's against - 41, it's not. Consequently, the draft decision is not on the agenda for the sitting of 26 May. Is there a proposal to transfer this own-initiative proposal, the draft decision, to one of the commissions? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “I am!” ) Please turn on the microphone for Mr. Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U30	I'm sorry. All this should be passed on to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U31	Thank you. So there is a proposal to hand over to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. There are no other proposals. Please call me! We will vote for the referral of the draft decision on the abolition of the mandatory electricity procurement component (OIC) to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 30, against - 41, abstaining. So this own-initiative proposal - the draft decision - has not been referred to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission and has been rejected. Go on. On the agenda - reports by the Bureau on the granting of leave. This article is intended to record any revenue arising from the exercise of rights in connection with a guarantee under Article 01 03 05 of the statement of expenditure in Section III ‘Commission’ provided that this revenue has not been deducted from The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Roman Money requesting him to be granted unpaid leave on 12 May this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For unpaid leave granted to Member Andris Skrides on 19 May this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Andra Skride requesting him to be granted unpaid leave on 19 May this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For unpaid leave granted to Member Raimonds Bergmans on 19 May this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Raimonds Bergmanis, requesting him to be granted unpaid leave on 19 May of this year, and shall inform the Saeima thereof. Dear colleagues, The next item is the examination of the draft decision. Draft decision “On Order No. 11 May 2022 of the Cabinet of Ministers 324 amending Order of 10 August 2021. 518 ‘Proclaiming an emergency’. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U32	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Hello, colleagues and colleagues! Sitting viewers and listeners! In the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption, we have examined the amendment... Order No 324. So in view of this... Amendment to the Order on Promulgation of the Emergency Provision provides that... Considering that the illegal border crossing between the Republic of Latvia and the Republic of Belarus continues, as well as taking into account the large number of illegal border crossings between the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Belarus in the neighbouring country, extend the declared emergency situation until August 10, 2022 in the municipalities of Ludza municipality, Krāslava municipality, Upperdaugava municipality and Daugavpils municipality. In the Commission, we supported this amendment. I invite the Saeima to support the draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U33	Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the order of 11 May 2022 of the Cabinet of Ministers No. 324 amending Order of 10 August 2021. 518 “Advertising the Emergency”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 65, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, An amendment to the agenda of the Seimas sitting has been tabled. Members Ramona Petraviča, Maris Možvillo, Ralfs Nemiro, Ieva Krapāne and Eriks Pucens ask for an amendment to the agenda and agenda item 31 of the sitting... No, sorry, the agenda has now been amended... Consequently, this item on the agenda - Draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals - Law on Civil Union (No. 1380/Lp13) for the third reading until 30 October 2022.’ transfer before ‘Provision of draft laws’. Mr. Gobzem, will you talk about it? ‘ For” applied to speak Member Aldis Gobzems.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U34	Colleagues, this is the moment I have to get out of the closet. ( Insight: “What are you going to say?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ I am gay. Raivis Dzintars and Jānis Urbanovičs know it very well. (Laughter) (See the box below.) Victor Valainis...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U35	Colleagues (Sitting Manager knocked with hammer.) , I call, however, for a specific proposal to be discussed, not Members... for each other. So we close this section. Are Members opposed to the amendment of the agenda proposed by those Members? ( Milestones.) Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “You haven’t heard... ‘We are voting!’ ) Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote for this item on the agenda - draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals under the draft law on Civil Union (No. 1380/Lp13) for the third reading until 30 October 2022” - would be examined before the section “Provision of draft laws”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 35, for - 32, for - 2. Consequently, a decision has been made to examine this item of the agenda before the section ‘Provisions of draft laws’. And Members Juris Pūce, Marija Golubeva, Vita Anda Steel, Krista Baumane and Gatis Zamurs have asked for the draft decision on the agenda of the Saeima meeting on the extension of the deadline for submitting proposals to the draft law on Civil Union (No. 1380/Lp13) for the third reading until 30 October 2022.’ Mr. Gobzem, will you talk about it or 'no'? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “To”, “to”!” ; methacrylics.) Mr. Gobzem will speak. A. Gobzem: “About!” )... So "for" has applied to speak to Aldis Gobzems. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U36	You don't want to listen, you're talking to each other. ( Imposition: “It depends on the content of the speech! ” ) I call on Members to approach this issue very seriously, because yesterday the Legal Commission took place... There was a situation which is clearly to be seen as a manifestly corrupt measure. ( Intercretion: “Uow! ”) ) In particular, there was a vote on the subject and, during the vote, the chairman of the committee, Mr Butan, discontinued the vote, understanding that Gaidan, with a soft mandate, immediately... that he has not voted the way he needs. And Geidan's voice divided this vote; it was imitated by the fact that there were problems with communications, although... All those who voted against... very clearly everything was audible... They all put it to the vote... who voted against. And then there was some kind of correspondence and the vote started again. And Geidan, to whom this apparently is the last sitting of the Saeima in this term, changed the voice that foretold... In fact, the draft law could be moved further. Probably on this issue... A group of Members who voted against will appeal to the Anti-Corruption Office and other law enforcement bodies, as it is absolutely clear that there is a clear... There have not been so far in any Saeima, in any parliament, a situation where the vote is interrupted and the vote is affected... so that one Member should change his vote, which he... he has just said how he has voted. It is clear that if we have an impact on the vote in Parliament, we can only talk about corruption - political corruption. It is clear that it is necessary to examine all the means of communication - why and how this influence was realised with regard to Member Geodane. And from this troupe today, it can be quite clear and unequivocally stated that Member Gaidan is an influential member of the Saeima...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U37	Colleagues, however, I call for the proposal to be discussed, not among Members. ‘ Against” said Member Ramona Petraviča.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U38	Colleagues! This is the moment when we can still correct this failed bill. A strong, rich and holy country is the foundation of a strong family. A strong family, in turn, is based on a marriage of loyalty, respect, and love. There is no definition of what is family, but there is no definition of many other things, such as, for example, who is a woman and who is a man. That is why, today too, we need to discuss a thing that is a family. The writers of the Satversme never thought that they could ever find themselves in a situation of doubt and interpretation, which is a family that is a natural family. And the natural family is a family where children can be born and born. I ask everyone to remember that as children grow up, a mother and father model is needed to develop their morals, build a personality and live a full and traditional life. In a natural family, a woman is a wife and mother, and a man is a husband and father. There is no guarantee in the civil union. Mother can be a simple menstrual person or “ parent No. 1’, but the father – a partner or could not be included in the family at all. It is not clear to me how the law -makers imagine how children with two mothers will be able to grow up fully. It is a crime against the well-being of children. As I said, the law of the Civil Union is nothing more than an after-marriage, not even making partners faithful. It really degrades the family in Latvia, it degrades the role of the father. As I have already mentioned, substantial mistakes and risks have been made, such as Article 8, which allows same-sex couples to then also marry because it provides that a civil union is an obstacle to the conclusion of a marriage with another person who is not part of a civil union. So, if a civil union is formed, it is also a legal reason for marriage. This must definitely be corrected and ruled out so that we do not get into a situation where these marriages are concluded, which is contrary to our Constitution. Similarly, Article 5 - gives citizens of other countries the opportunity to obtain gold visas from countries that are unfriendly to us. And then they will have the opportunity to bring their entire family here and to stay legally, after a brief moment of interruption of this civil union and re-establishing a new one. So, please, with this vote, really show those who represent conservative values that have an important traditional and natural family, because this is the time when we can still fix it. ( The paragraphs are: ‘ Against’, if?) ; “Said to vote in favour.” ; “ Against”! ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U39	Colleagues, so one Member has spoken about, one against. We will vote in favour of excluding this draft decision from the agenda of the sitting. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals to the draft law on Civil Union (No. 1380/Lp13) for the third reading until 30 October 2022’. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. The draft decision is excluded from the agenda of the sitting. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the law on civilian support of Ukraine” (No. 1465/Lp13), second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U40	Welcome again. The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption, in its second final reading, has examined the draft law ‘Amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Support Law’. 26 proposals have been received. 1. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Golubeva. Amendments, editorial adjustments and additions to Article 1 shall be provided for. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U41	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U42	Dear Latvian society! Helping other peoples is good and right, but why I want to use this parliamentary tribunal is to remind everyone, especially those who regard themselves as national patriots - we should help... and bring back to Latvia people who are still in Siberia, while Latvians are in 2021 and cannot return here themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U43	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U44	I call for support for proposal 1.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U45	Members do not ask for a vote and support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U46	2. - also the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Golubeva. Complements the regulation - the process of examination of applications. Partly supported by the Commission, included 3. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U47	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U48	3. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Correct the above. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U49	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U50	4. - Prosperity (Corporate: Let's vote!) ; “Please vote!” )...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U51	Proposal No 3
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U52	3. - The commission is therefore supported. And the vote is being asked.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U53	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - the proposal presented by the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -63, for -no, refrain -7. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U54	4. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare, Zalīte-Gross. The revision of the aid framework shall be specified and supplemented. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U55	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U56	5. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics, Indrickson. Complements support on housing. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U57	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U58	6. - Mr Valaina's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U59	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U60	President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, This week, we were looking at the issue of how this transition will take place for 90 days at the Municipal Development Commission of the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government... When 90 days end... This transition from the previous existing aid to the new arrangements, the new approach. Now, of course, there is very much involvement of institutions: Ministry of the Interior, Ministry of Welfare, Ministry of Economics. This proposal, too, has been developed to a large extent in cooperation with municipalities and is supported by municipalities. To a large extent, it is included in the proposal already tabled by the former Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Mrs Indicicsone, which, by its very nature, provides that these support instruments, which are available... what will be able to pay these refugees to private... will also be able to pay for public property. Colleagues, however, I would like to call on the entire Saeima to follow closely, both at the stage of adoption of this draft law... everyone in every position - the parliamentary Member or Parliamentary Secretary - should follow with great care, because this transition, in my view, will be vital for all of us so that these transition moments, which will be 1 July... or, in the case of one area of aid, will it be for those people who are currently on 90 days... and this new order has to come up with... so that we accurately identify the moment when something is not working in this system, because it is absolutely clear that a country cannot afford to support as generously as it is currently. I think no one has any questions about this. At the moment, there is very much support for the reception of Ukrainian war refugees in Latvia under human conditions. And that's understandable. This new approach requires specific monitoring. And I call on every Member and responsible official to follow with particular care and raise alarms in good time so that we can change and accept amendments, improvements in this law in good time, not late. I think we have quite a challenge ahead of us. Although one fact I mentioned this week: four and a half thousand Ukrainian war refugees are currently accommodated in hotels - four and a half thousand, colleagues! At present, the new regulation does not provide for continued support in hotels. I can't believe it! So we need to be ready that this new order will be able to accumulate four and a half thousand people during the summer. Be prepared to accept amendments that somehow... make adjustments in the event that this is not the case. Good goals, good thoughts is one thing. I am very grateful to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Mrs Indicice, for her commitment to updating this issue. The previous proposal has been supported. I withdraw this proposal because it is already, by its very nature, included in the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U61	Thank you. The proposal has therefore been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U62	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U63	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U64	8 / 8 - the health minister's proposal. Partially supported, included 20. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U65	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U66	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The aim is to improve the drafting. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U67	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U68	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Zakaistov. It is planned to supplement the regulation of the law, which lays down special rules for the application of personal income tax to Ukrainian civilians, those Ukrainian civilians who are non-residents... For the purposes of applying the Law on Personal Income Tax in this Article... targets... There will be the right to apply an exemption from personal income tax of EUR 250, as well as the right to apply personal income tax relief for a dependent minor child. Other tax incentives and procedural regulations are also foreseen. The Commission has been supported by editorial clarification.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U69	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U70	11. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Golubeva. Complements and clarifies the framework for the granting of aid. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U71	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U72	12. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. The norms on the rights of Ukrainian civilians to education are clarified. Partially supported, included 14. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U73	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U74	13. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editative clarification. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U75	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U76	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The above rules shall be specified. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U77	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U78	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Janson's proposal. It is planned that “a minor Ukrainian civilian, as well as an adult Ukrainian civilian, who, after reaching adulthood in Latvia, continues the vocational orientation education initiated by the state’s established vocational secondary education institutions 2021.2022. in the school year, are exempted from training fees for the acquisition of a vocational guidance education programme by the end of the school year.’ Partly supported by the Commission, includes 16. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U79	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U80	16. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Clarified above. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U81	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U82	17. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The norm on the recognition of professional qualifications of Ukrainian civilians in the regulated profession in the Republic of Latvia is clarified. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U83	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U84	18. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editative clarification. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U85	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U86	19. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Clarifying the above. Partly supported by the Commission, included 20. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U87	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U88	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Provision shall be made for clarification in the abovementioned provisions. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U89	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U90	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Proposal from Parliamentary Secretary Zamur, Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. Provision is made for additional accommodation in municipalities. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U91	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U92	22. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Explanation of the editorial nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U93	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U94	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare, Zalīte-Gross. It is envisaged to clarify the transitional provisions. Partially supported, included 26. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U95	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U96	24. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Clarifying the transitional provisions. Supported by 26. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U97	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U98	Also 25. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The drafting of the transitional provisions. Supported by 26. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U99	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U100	26. - a proposal from the committee responsible. In summary, and in order to improve these rules, a version has been created in which the Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U101	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U102	I call on the Saeima to support the second final reading of the draft law on amendments to the Ukrainian civilian support law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U103	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on amendments to the Ukrainian civilian support law (No. 1465Lp13) in the second, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, before the break, important statements are important. Today's very beautiful birthday is celebrated by our colleague Vita Anda Steela and we welcome him. (Applause) And another statement. Today, from 12.00 to 16.00 at the Saeima House of Blooddonors Day, everyone can donate blood. Please call me! Please have Members' presence regime! Name Inese Voika to read the registration results as soon as they are prepared.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U104	Colleagues, not registered: Arvils Asheradens, Raimonds Bergmanis, Aigars Bikše, Aldis Blumbergs, Boriss Cilevičs, Gundars Dauge, Jānis Dombrava, Ilmars Dūritis, Krišjānis Feldmans, Ritvars Jansons, Rihards Kols, Linda Medne, Evija Papule, Ivars Puga, Dace Rukšāne–Ščipčinska, Andris Skride, Ilga Šuplinska, Jānis Urbanovičs, Jānis Vucāns and Reinis Znotiņš. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U105	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U106	Dear colleagues, We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on Administrative Territories and Residents”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission on Territorial Reform, Member Juris Puce.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U107	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Highly respected colleagues! To the third reading of Draft Law No. 1406/Lp13 proposals were not accepted. The Commission supported the draft law at third reading. Please also support the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U108	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Administrative Territories and Accommodations” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 57, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Information Transparency Act”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government - Member Juris Pūce.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U109	Dear colleagues, This draft law as well - Amendments to the Information Transparency Law (No. 1349/Lp13) - the third reading committee did not receive proposals. The Commission supported the draft law at third reading. Please support the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U110	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Information Transparency Law” in the third, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 61, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”, third reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Aldis Adamovičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U111	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, See the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” at third reading. The Commission received 18 proposals for a third reading. 1. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport, Telelys Linkait. It is envisaged to complement the team of officials with the National Railway Technical Inspection Officers. Partially supported, included 2. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U112	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U113	2. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Accordingly, this amendment was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U114	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U115	3. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. The intention is, therefore, to add a third paragraph to Article 7.1 on the diplomatic corps... compensation for the salary of the consular post. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U116	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U117	4. - The proposal of Prime Minister, Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. It is envisaged to supplement the fourth paragraph of Article 9. Partly supported and included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U118	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U119	5. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Provision shall be made for the wording of Article 2 of the draft law in a different version, supplemented by the provisions referred to in the second paragraph of Article 30 of the Military Service Law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U120	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U121	6. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport, Telelys Linkait. On remuneration of the Civil Aviation Agency and State Railway Technical Inspection Officers. Partly supported and included 7. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U122	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U123	7. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Article 13.1 shall be amended accordingly. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U124	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U125	8 / 8 - Member Juris Pouce's proposal. The increase in the basic monthly salary ratio of the Financial Intelligence Officers. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U126	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U127	9. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Article 19.2.1 shall be supplemented by the words ‘or, in the performance of their duties in the course of military training, has been the victim of an accident and has been the victim of injury or corruption’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U128	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U129	Also 10. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Accordingly, provision shall be made for refunds... therefore, in the performance of his duties, he has suffered an accident. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U130	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U131	11. - The proposal of Prime Minister, Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. It is envisaged to supplement Article 19 with paragraph 2.5 thereof. Partially supported, included 9. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U132	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U133	12. - also the proposal of a Member of the Prime Minister, Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. Article 19 shall be supplemented by paragraph 2.6. Also for compensation. Partly supported and included 10. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U134	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U135	13. - The proposal of Prime Minister, Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. Provision shall be made for the wording of the third paragraph of Article 19. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U136	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U137	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. The first sentence of the fourth paragraph of Article 19, supplemented by... military personnel involved in accidents. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U138	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U139	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of Prime Minister, Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. Article 19 shall be supplemented by Part 4.2 in the corresponding wording. Partially supported, included 14. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U140	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U141	16. - The proposal of Prime Minister, Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. The first paragraph of Article 35 shall be supplemented by the words ‘and military staff’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U142	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U143	17. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport, Telelys Linkait. It is envisaged that the transitional provisions should be supplemented by point 56. These proposals therefore enter into force on 1 June 2022. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U144	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U145	And 18. - The proposal of Prime Minister, Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. Annex 1 shall be supplemented by the words ‘and military personnel’. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U146	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U147	Therefore, colleagues, all the proposals have been examined. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U148	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 65, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Ensuring the President’s Activities”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government - Member Juris Pūce.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U149	Once again, honourable colleagues! We will therefore work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Ensuring the Activities of the President of Latvia”” (No. 1428/Lp13). This draft law was drawn up in the light of... it is of a technical nature. The Saeima has amended the Law on the Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions and has stated that in future the monthly salary of the President of Latvia will be determined by this law rather than by the law on ensuring the activities of the President of Latvia, therefore the law on the provision of the activities of the President of Latvia has been clarified accordingly. The draft law was drafted by the State Chancellery, submitted to the Saeima by the Cabinet of Ministers. The Commission of Public Administration and Local Government has examined this draft law at its meeting and has supported its progress at first reading. Please also support the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U150	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U151	Dear colleagues, As Mr Puce has already said, this is a technical draft law which intends to continue what this coalition has already led in the budget review package. The draft law provides for the exclusion of all reservations regarding remuneration, compensation and other support to the President of Latvia and the inclusion of them in the Law on the Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions. Colleagues, we did not support the single remuneration law, so we cannot consistently support this draft law, but we also believe that the law “On ensuring the functioning of the President of Latvia” should be amended, because it is difficult to explain to the public now why the President of Latvia, at the rise in the salary he has this year and in the years to come, still needs compensation that is at the level of the total income of society... is quite difficult to explain. That's why this draft law... we will consistently vote against and abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U152	Thank you. I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U153	On behalf of the Commission, I can only add that the draft law in question essentially regulates the legal system in the light of the changes already made by the Saeima. The Commission has therefore supported these draft laws at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U154	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Ensuring the Activities of the President of Latvia” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 57, for - 1, for - 5. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U155	The deadline for submitting proposals is five days, or until 24 May of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U156	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 24 May this year. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Expropriation of Public Property”, second reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Regina Ločmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U157	Hello, colleagues! Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government has examined the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Expropriation of Public Person’s Property” at second reading. As I have already told you when looking at this draft law at first reading, the purpose of this amendment is to sort out the procedure in cases where special permission from the Cabinet of Ministers is not required for the disposal of the property of a public person. The second reading received one proposal from Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistova. It provided for a clarification of the procedure and provided that the Cabinet of Ministers may also determine in its order the public persons whose funds were acquired in the budget after the disposal of the actual disposal expenses were to be credited. The Commission, when examining this proposal by Mr Zakatistova, supported it only in part and drafted a proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government, which was also supported. It clarifies this procedure and determines not only that the Cabinet of Ministers is allowed to identify such a public person in its order, but also to determine for what purpose the funds obtained from the disposal of the property could be used. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U158	So it's about 1. - Members of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistova, who has been partly supported, share the Commission's view. And 2. - Members support the Commission's proposal, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U159	On behalf of the Commission, I ask the Saeima to support the draft law on the law on the disposal of public property at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U160	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Expropriation of Public Property” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 61, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U161	The proposal is to set a deadline of five days for the submission of proposals, namely until 24 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U162	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 24 May this year. Draft law on ‘Amendment to civil law’, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U163	Colleagues, see Draft Law Amending Civil Law (No. 1413/Lp13) at second reading. This amendment is related to the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Court in the case “On Compliance of Para 5 of Section 242 of the Civil Law with Article 96 and Article 110 of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia”... which is related to the fact that it has been established that guardians may not be persons punished for offences related to violence or threat of violence, regardless of the deletion or removal of criminality, and is found to be incompatible with the Constitution. No legislative proposal was received for the second reading. The Legal Commission supported this at second reading. I also call on the Saeima to do so.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U164	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on civil law. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 64, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U165	The deadline for submitting proposals is five days, or until May 24 of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U166	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 24 May this year. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments’, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhena‐Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U167	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues! The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments (No. 1274 Lp13) at second reading. One proposal has been received. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Technical corrections and clarifications shall be provided. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U168	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U169	We have examined the only proposal. I therefore call on you to join the Commission's decision and support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U170	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 66, against and refrains. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U171	The deadline for submitting proposals is seven days, or until 26 May of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U172	So seven days or five?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U173	Seven.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U174	What date?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U175	26.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U176	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 26 May this year. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Fertilisers’, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Janina Kursīte.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U177	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! See the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Fertilisers” at second reading. Eight proposals were received to the second reading. All are editorial and complementary revisions of the Legal Office. They are supported by the Commission. Let's see them. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Article 1 shall be replaced by the following: the words ‘which produce, import, pack or market a fertiliser and a plant growth substrate’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U178	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U179	2. - also a proposal from the Legal Office. Article 2 of the draft law shall be excluded. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U180	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U181	3. - also a proposal from the Legal Office. The text of the third paragraph of Article 4 shall be supplemented by... So the supplements. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U182	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U183	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. In the introductory part of the first paragraph of Article 5, the word ‘service’ shall be replaced by ‘national plant protection service...’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U184	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U185	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. In the first sentence of the first paragraph of Article 8, the words ‘EC-labelled fertilisers’ shall be replaced by the words ‘CE-marked fertilisers of the European Union’. It was also supported in the past, but only legally corrected. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U186	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U187	6. - also a proposal from the Legal Office. Replaced by Article 9, first paragraph, point 9, by the words... The Commission was also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U188	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U189	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Amendments to Article 11, first paragraph, point 1... in point 1 of the first paragraph of Article 11, the words ‘the fertiliser blender’ are deleted. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U190	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U191	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The words ‘for the previous year’ shall be replaced by the words ‘for 2022’. Reports should therefore be submitted to the importing service. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U192	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U193	Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U194	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Movement of Fertilisers! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 68, against and refrains - not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U195	May 24th of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U196	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 24 May this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Competition Law”, second reading. Member Viesturs Liepkalns on behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U197	Hello, very honourable Chairman of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined and prepared for consideration by the Saeima at the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Competition” (No. 1277/Lp13). I would remind you that the draft law aims to strengthen the functioning of the Competition Council with the necessary guarantees of independence, resources and enforcement powers for the effective investigation and prevention of infringements of competition law. In total, 17 proposals were examined by the Commission. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The approach to adding new concepts to the list of terms has been revised. In order to raise awareness of the historical development of this law in line with the requirements of the legal technique, we do not express all articles of the law in a new version, but add new terms, without altering the alphabetical order. The proposal is aligned with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Competition Council. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U198	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U199	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Here, the law on the independence of the Competition Council incorporates the regulation proposed in Article 8 of the draft law, while the issue of financing is then transferred to the next section. The proposal has been aligned with the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U200	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U201	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Provision shall be made for the fourth paragraph of Article 4 to be expressed as a fifth and, as appropriate, as a fourth in a new version. The proposal concerns the financial independence of the Competition Council... removes concerns that the introduced provision is declaratory and unclear. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U202	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U203	4. - A proposal from Member Ata Zakatistova. It is planned to abolish the procedure for selecting the Chairman of the Competition Council and the members of the Council provided for in the draft law that in the future the Cabinet of Ministers will determine the organization procedure and the rules of selection. Applicants will be evaluated by the evaluation committee established by the Cabinet of Ministers, but in future the State Chancellery will perform only the secretariat functions. The proposer argues that the aim of the draft law is to introduce a Council of Europe Directive, but such a change in the selection procedure... which does not provide for such a change in the selection procedure and expressed concerns about the independence of the Competition Council if the Cabinet of Ministers decides to manage it. Members listened to all the parties involved in the Commission and the approach was explained to ensure transparency in the selection process. Neither did the Ministry of Economics support this proposal. In the Commission too, Members decided not to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U204	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U205	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editatively, the numbering of the articles is changed. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U206	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U207	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. For editorial purposes too, avoids negligence. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U208	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U209	7. - Proposal by Ilze Indricksone, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics. It is envisaged to replace the word ‘two’ in the fifth paragraph of Article 5 of the Competition Act with ‘three’. The nature of the proposal provides for clarification of the number of votes required by the members of the Council for the conclusion of decisions or administrative contract, taking into account the entry into force of the Amendments to the Competition Law on 1 January 2022... by providing that the Board will be composed of a Chair and four members of the Board instead of the previous two members, i.e. in order to take a decision, it will be necessary in the future instead of three... Three votes will be needed, not two to date. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U210	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U211	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Technical. Provision shall be made for a distinction to be made in a separate part of the regulation, which shall apply only to the candidate for the post of President of the Board. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U212	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U213	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Specifys a more successful sentence design. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U214	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U215	Also 10. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Identical with regard to more successful sentence designs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U216	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U217	And also 11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Identical with regard to more successful sentence designs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U218	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U219	12. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Article 8 of the draft law is to be excluded, which is linked to the above-mentioned proposal of the Office for Legal Affairs No 2, by which the regulation was incorporated into Article 4 of the law on the legal status of the Competition Council. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U220	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U221	13. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It is envisaged to supplement Article 9, in the version of the tenth paragraph, which states that ‘in the course of carrying out the procedural activities referred to in point 4 of the fifth paragraph of this Article, the officials of the Competition Council shall be entitled to participate in the participation of experts or experts from law enforcement agencies, as well as experts from other public administrations or experts in information technology’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U222	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U223	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Proposal by Ilze Indricksone, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics. It is envisaged to supplement the draft law with a new article clarifying when the merger report is deemed to have been received by the Competition Council and the deadline for the examination of the report set out in the first paragraph of Article 16 of the law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U224	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U225	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Proposal by Ilze Indricksone, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics. It is planned to replace the words “Riga city Latgale suburb court” in the first paragraph of Section 20 of the Competition Law with the words “Economic Court” by... The actions of the economic court for infringements of competition law would be referred to that court. Against this background, the amendment provides a uniform framework in line with the changes... specify the court of jurisdiction to hear cases in this category. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U226	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U227	16. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Provision is made for the new title of Chapter IX, ‘Cooperation’, ‘Completing cross-border requests’, which defines more precisely the content of the chapter. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U228	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U229	And 17. - Proposal by Ilze Indricksone, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics. Provides for clarification of Article 24 of the draft law... transitional provisions. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U230	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U231	Dear colleagues, We have examined all the proposals submitted to the Commission. The Commission has supported this draft in second reading and invites you to support this draft in second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U232	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on Competition Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 68, against and refrains - not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U233	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be one week, or until 26 May of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U234	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 26 May this year. Draft law ‘Law on the management of the Internal Security Fund, the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund and the Financial Support Instrument for border management and visa policy for the programming period 2021-2027’, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U235	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues! See draft law “Law on the management of the Internal Security Fund, the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund and the Financial Support Instrument for border management and visa policy for the programming period 2021-2027” (No. 1429/Lp13). The law is necessary because the previous programming period has expired and has been developed on the basis of previous experience and regulatory frameworks, including the integration of Regulation No. 2021/1060, which sets out the requirements for the implementation, monitoring, evaluation, control and audit of the Fund. The Commission has examined and supported the draft law and is asking for the urgent nature of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U236	Thank you. The commission has therefore requested that the draft law be declared urgent. None of the Members have applied for this. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on the border management of the Internal Security Fund, the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund and the Financial Support Instrument and visa policy for the programming period 2021-2027! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U237	I call on my colleagues to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U238	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law on the management of the Internal Security Fund, the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund and the Financial Support Instrument for Border Management and visa policy for the programming period 2021-2027! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U239	May 26th of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U240	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 26 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U241	Review...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U242	Review...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U243	The review will take place on 9 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U244	Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals - 26 May this year - on 9 June this year. Thank you. Draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U245	Colleagues! See the draft law “Amendments to the law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”. The purpose of the amendments is to subject the new synthetic opioids, brorphine, and other substances to control. The Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (SCPC) has already, as of 9 December 2021, imposed a temporary ban on this substance, brorphine, and on its products (such a right has been granted to the SCPC by law on the legal circulation of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances and medicinal products, and such a ban is then valid for a period of 12 months). And given that a substance for which a decision by the SCPC has been taken is dangerous for public health and safety, that substance should be included in Annex 2 to the Law, within 12 months of the date of entry into force of the Decision, in order to prevent that substance from returning to uncontrolled circulation. Bromphine is found in illicit trafficking in many countries and regions of the world, including Europe. And this is a threat to public health and it is not used for medical purposes. The draft law also includes substances for which the Ministry of Health has received a letter from the International Drug Control Board... and for substances not yet subject to control in Latvia. And these are now included in the draft law. The draft law also provides for the control of certain medicinal products and active substances used in veterinary medicine... The draft law provides that the date of entry into force of the law shall be 15 June 2022. And that's why the Commission is asking for the draft law to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U246	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 69, against and refrains. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U247	The Legal Commission supported the adoption of the draft law at first reading. I also call on the Saeima to do so.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U248	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U249	The deadline for proposals is one day, so 20 May this year. And the second, final, reading by the Saeima - 26 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U250	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 20 May this year. Consideration at the Saeima sitting on 26 May this year. Dear colleagues, Members Ainars Latkovskis, Juris Pūce, Sandis Riekstins, Jānis Iesalnieks and Iveta Benhena–Beeken are asking to declare the sitting of the Saeima on 19 May this year interrupted until 9 a.m. on 26 May this year. We must vote on this. Please call me! Let us vote for a break until 9 a.m. on May 26! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 41, for - 30, for - 1. A decision was therefore taken on the interruption by 9 a.m. on 26 May this year. I would like to inform you of the meeting scheduled today for the ministerial response to Members' questions. On behalf of Karina Sprūde, Julia Stepanenko, Alda Gobzem, Ramona Petraviča and Māra Možvillo, Minister for Health “For the Amount of Donation of Covid-19 Vaccines purchased”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that he is unable to arrive and give an oral answer due to the pressure. So today's answers to Members' questions will not happen. Please call me! Please register the Members!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U251	Colleagues! Not registered: Arvils Asheradens, Raimonds Bergmanis, Aigars Bikše, Aldis Blumbergs, Boriss Cilevičs, Gundars Dauge, Jānis Dombrava, Ilmars Dūritis, Krišjānis Feldmans, Aldis Gobzems, Marija Golubeva, Ilze Indriksone, Ritvars Jansons, Rihards Kols, Linda Medne, Evija Papule, Ivars Puga, Juris Pūce, Dace Rušāne–Ščipčinska, Andris Skride, Ilga Šuplinska, Jānis Urbanovičs, Jānis Vucāns and Reinis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-19-PT13-2385-U252	Thank you. Interruption until 9 a.m. on May 26 ( Interruption)
