ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! Colleagues, I call for seats to be held in Saeima's meeting room so that we can begin the extraordinary session of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on August 11, 2022. Ladies and gentlemen, we have recently received a number of messages of mourning. He left us forever 13. Member of the Saeima, our colleague, Aldis Blumbergs; dissident, poet, cultural worker Knut Skujenieks; 5. Member of the Saeima, former Minister of Foreign Affairs, George Andrejev, and longtime Chief of State Police, Ints Ķuzis. Let's pay tribute to their memory with a minute's silence. ( A moment of silence.) Thank you. Dear colleagues, We will begin to review the agenda for the extraordinary part-session. On the agenda - approval and termination of the parliamentary term. Draft decision “On Ainars Vilciņa 13. Approval of the parliamentary mandate’. Ainars Latkovskis, Member of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U2	Colleagues! On July 20, this year, the commission of mandates, ethics and applications received 13. Documents confirming the death of Member Alda Blumberga. According to information from the Central Electoral Commission, Ainārs Vilciņš, who has agreed to accept 13th floor of the political party KPV LV, is the next candidate of the Member’s office. The post of a member of the Saeima as well as the fact that he is not subject to restrictions on the appointment of a Member as laid down in the Saeima Election Law and other regulatory acts shall not apply to him. At its meeting on 27 July this year, the Commission unanimously supported Ainars Vilciņa 13. The Saeima shall approve the mandate of a Member. We invite you to support the draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U3	Thank you. I call on Ainars Train to make an oath or solemn promise.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U4	Can I turn to Members with a request?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U5	You have to make a solemn promise.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U6	Yeah, I want to give it. Since this promise for every Member may be once... and I would like to make a promise.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U7	Mr. Train, you must give an oath or a solemn promise.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U8	Then I can't... - What? Yeah, I wanted to... I, Ainārs Vilciņš, assume the office of Member of the Saeima, solemnly promises to be faithful to Latvia before the people of Latvia, to strengthen its sovereignty and Latvian language as the only language of the country, to defend Latvia as an independent and democratic state, to perform its duties in good faith and with the best conscience. I undertake to respect the Constitution and laws of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U9	Mr. Train, you have to make a solemn promise once again because you were wrong in the text.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U10	I, Ainārs Vilciņš, assume the office of Member of the Saeima, solemnly promises to be faithful to Latvia before the people of Latvia, to strengthen its sovereignty and Latvian language as the only language of the country, to defend Latvia as an independent and democratic state, to perform my duties in good faith and with the best conscience (Internal.) ... I'm sorry. May I do that again?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U11	Mr. Train, you must make a solemn promise once again.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U12	Okay. I'll try. ( Milestones.) I got it. I, Ainārs Vilciņš, assume the office of Member of the Saeima, solemnly promises to be faithful to Latvia before the people of Latvia, to strengthen its sovereignty and Latvian language as the only state language, to defend Latvia as an independent and democratic state, to perform its duties in good faith and with the best consciousness. I undertake to respect the Constitution and laws of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U13	Thank you. I invite you to sign the solemn promise. Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on Ainars Vilciņa 13. Approval of the parliamentary mandate’! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Congratulations on 13. The Saeima Member Ainars Vilciņš and I invite you to join the Saeima sitting room. (Applause) On the agenda - reports from the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on the Extraordinary Increase of Energy Prices” (No. 1565 Lp13) transferred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission with responsibility for the Commission. So Members want to speak... ‘for’ or ‘to’? Mr Nemir will talk about it. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Ralph Nemiro.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U14	Colleagues, very briefly. I call for this draft law to be passed on to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy for the reason that this issue is linked to energy and support for the population, so it is more part of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. In the case of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, there is more about the budget. In this case, we in the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy will also be happy to hear the opinion of the Minister for Finance on whether it is compatible with opportunities and whether it will raise our external debt again. I therefore call for this draft law to be passed on to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U15	Thank you. So there is a proposal to refer the draft law to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Let us vote in favour of this proposal. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Exceptional Increase in Energy Prices” (No. 1565 Lp13) transfer to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, making it a responsible commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has not been submitted to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Are Members opposed to handing over the draft law to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, making it a commission responsible? There is no objection. The draft law was submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes the Member Armands Krauze, Ulds Augulis, Gundars Dauges, Janina Jalinska and Jānis Dūklavs' draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Exceptional Increase in Energy Prices” (No. 1564/Lp13) transferred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission with responsibility for the Commission. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Uldis Augulis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U16	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, We have prepared a draft law on the grant of a lump sum pension... in the case of invalidity pensions, survivors' pensions and those who care for children with disabilities - as a lump sum allowance. The government has also been invited to do so by the Latvian Pensioners Federation to cover the rise in energy prices, as well as to cover or mitigate the impact of inflation on pensioners. Why EUR 200? ( The drug is noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) That was the wish of the Pensioners Federation. If we are also looking towards indexation, then the indexation will only be in September, despite the fact that the Members have promised that it will be from August, but when the law is passed, the indexation will only be in September, but payments must be made today, tomorrow, and this will have to be done in the future. Both the rise in food prices and the overall inflation, which in fact will not be covered by indexation in the future... In order to help our citizens, I call for support for this proposal, because the index threshold, as we know, is EUR 534. What will happen to those people who have EUR 535, EUR 536, EUR 537? It will also be difficult for these people to make all payments. I therefore call on my fellow Members to be responsible and to support this proposal for further consideration by the Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax) so that we can support our pension beneficiaries. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U17	Mr. Aldis Gobzems has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U18	Hello, Latvian society! I want to talk about electricity. ‘ In the three months of 2022, the turnover was almost twice as high and the profit... before financial items... One and a half times larger. ‘ Igintis’ - the Lithuanian energy monopoly - turnover has increased from 300 million to almost billion and profits are 74 percent higher. ‘ Eesti Energia’ quarter... not reporting, but profits increased by 476 percent in 2021. These are the characteristics of the oligopoly or negotiated market because... And I think that's what happens here. It's really weird. If Latvenergo's profit could still (in theory) be explained by cheap energy from HES, then Lithuanians and Estonians - no. All three cannot work with such huge profits. The price formation mechanism does not allow this unless the arrangement is prohibited. It is, in principle, a scandal, dear people, a robbery of people and an abuse of the energy crisis under the cover of war. These are the characteristics of the oligopoly or negotiated market and, of course, that is the illustration and the effect that the public service regulator is a cantor of sober amphibians. We're just in a diaper, missing the counter with the Nord Pool free market crust. There is no free market. And all the tears that Scandinavians pour into here, and the tears that we pour into Scandinavia, are covered by greater market manipulation that you, dear people, dear families and beloved pensioners pay for. There is no free market in the Baltics for electricity generation. That's not the case. This may have been the case while Lithuanians refused to import Belarusian electricity. And the government can't know about this. This is a conscious manipulation of the population, a grand plan as you, dear people, dress up, make the poor. The government instead of taking your support, your war and your community under cover of you as an allowance with poor benefits, rather than avoiding the oligopoly situation. Just like in the day of the community, now the “Russians come” and the “cob” are the best baths put in the ears, and the longest pasta to hang on them. By the way, this is also why VAT revenues have increased proportionately - because you are dressed, dear people; you are dressed through a negotiated electricity market throughout the Baltics. And it is understood by anyone who looks at basic profit indicators for all Baltic monopolists. Members of the Saeima, including from the coalition, do not want to deal with this because of political tourism... like the Prime Minister - the tourist - and the ministers - the owners and corrupts. And what is the Public Service Regulatory Commission, which has about a hundred officials? They also live at the expense of your taxes, dear people, but do not regulate anything, and so you pay them drastic electricity bills. And how long will you suffer, dear people, how long will it be? Can you take it? Well, if you can't, then maybe you have to get up, but if you can and want to, continue exactly the same way. Continue to vote for the existing power, and you will have even more electricity bills (with little benefits... - for a few months before the elections). Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U19	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Exceptional Increase in Energy Prices” (No. 1564/Lp13) transfer of the budget and financial (tax) commission, making it a responsible commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law ‘Amendment to the European Parliament Election Law’ presented by Andreja Judina, Ainara Latkovska, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Anda Čakša and Rihards Kozlovska be referred to the National Administration and Local Government Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Andrey Judin, a Member, has signed up to speak about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U20	Good morning, colleagues! The draft law provides for regulation in the case of criminal offences committed and convicted by a Member of the European Parliament. You may be surprised, but there is no regulation right now. What happens then to the Members of the Saeima, we understand. But what happens to the Members of the European Parliament? Nothing is intended, because we do not regulate it at national level; at European level, it is planned that this matter is dealt with by each country individually. Colleagues, I am asking you to support the draft law, but to pass it on to the Legal Commission. We do not have a specific law on the status of a Member of the European Parliament, so we are talking about the electoral law of the European Parliament. The issue is of a legal nature, and I think we can work quickly with this proposal and not leave this bill in the legacy of the next Saeima. Please hand it over to the Legal Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U21	Thank you. So there is a proposal to refer the draft law to the Legal Commission. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law on the European Parliament Election Law to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -63, against -13, refrains - not. The draft law has been referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law on access to goods and services presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Procurement of Public Service Providers” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Cruanzdependence Companies” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Law on the management of grants managed by the European Cybersecurity Competences Centre during the planning period 2021-2027” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Criminal Procedure Law” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Railway Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Budgetary and Financial Management” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law is passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Prohibition of Unfair Commercial Practices” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the Member Viktoras Valaiņa, Janina Jalinska, Jānis Dūklavs, Jānis Vacāns, Armands Krauze, Ulds Augulis and other draft law presented “Amendments to the Law on Excise Tax” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Uldis Augulis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U22	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, We have prepared this bill to reduce the impact of excise duty on the final fuel price. We know how the price of fuel rose year on year. It concerns both households and businesses. With price increases, both value added tax revenues and other tax revenues have increased significantly, but a relatively small part of what is growing is re-directed - aid, reducing the impact of energy price increases. We are therefore calling for: lead-free petrol, its replacement products and its components (for 1000 litres) - EUR 359; lead-free petrol, its replacement products and components (for 1000 litres) - EUR 444; diesel (gas oil), its replacement products and its components (for 1000 litres) - EUR 264. And we call for it to be, let's say, timely, and then... so that you don't... in order not to impose a greater burden on the next year's budget, we propose that this time be set until 1 October 2023 - with the idea and hope that markets will be fine-tuned and fuel prices will probably fall. But this is the moment, or the moment, when we have to help our society, our entrepreneurs, so that these price increases... to the final consumer... in order not to grow as it is at present. I call on my fellow Members to support the draft law and to hand it over to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U23	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? The vote is requested. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission to the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 32, it's against - 50, it's not. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The following items are on the agenda: reports by the Bureau on own-initiative proposals submitted. Dear colleagues, The commission of mandates, ethics and applications has submitted its own proposal – the draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application of 10 168 Latvian citizens “On a Single Society Without the Russian Union of Latvia”. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? There is no objection. So we can look at this own-initiative proposal. Ainars Latkovskis, Member of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U24	Colleagues! On 1 July of this year, the Saeima received a collective application from 10 168 Latvian citizens “On a united society without the Russian Union of Latvia”. On 27 July this year, the Commission for the Mandate, Ethics and Application of the Saeima examined the application and listened to authors of the initiative who expressed the view that the activities of the Russian Union of Latvia should be terminated because its anti-state activities and rhetoric have not changed over time. The representative of the Prosecutor General's Office explained that currently the application for termination of activities of the Russian Union of Latvia was not submitted to the court, because in order to do this it had to be found an infringement of the party's activities, which had already been done after the amendments to the Law on Political Parties entered into force. The representative stressed that if the foundation arises, the application to the court will be prepared. The representative of the State Security Service informed that at the disposal of the State Security Service after the adoption of amendments to the law... There is currently no information on possible violations that could be reported to the prosecutor's office. But he assured the commission... and called on persons holding such information to submit it to the State Security Service, who will act accordingly. After hearing the invited persons, the Commission decided to refer the initiative of the Latvian citizens to the Saeima National Security Commission for further evaluation and prepared the draft decision of the Saeima “On the way forward of the 10 168 Latvian citizens’ collective application “On a Single Society Without the Russian Union of Latvia”. The Commission calls for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U25	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U26	Dear colleagues, The ManaBalss.lv portal is a collective application portal, and it has achieved a great deal in strengthening Latvia's democracy, many initiatives have come to the Saeima, and some may have been actually supported by laws. Working in this area, also in cooperation with these people, we have found that the ManaBalss.lv portal never collects signatures against a politician or a minister against a political force, because it is simply not democratic. Yes, now the name is a little different, it is changed - not "to" but "to" - but in general we all understand very well what this story is about. I see that new horizons have already been opened and this initiative will probably open up more opportunities for various proposals to ban other parties as well... about Latvian society without spicyers, about Latvian society without tax... and so on. Perhaps not to call specific names, but know that during the week of this initiative you would collect several tens of thousands of signatures, and then it would be very interesting for the Saeima to observe your votes. Colleagues, if you are so afraid of how these parliamentary elections turn out and that officially registered parties that have been supported by citizens of the Republic of Latvia threaten your existence in some way, ask yourself if you have addressed the people of Latvia enough and enough quality and provided them with the necessary support in this crisis. Isn't it that exactly your abuse and your inaction make people look around and choose what they choose? Let's be honest... you are not afraid of competitors, but you are now trying to do what you would not have done in a democratic society by simply prohibiting a movement rather than by trying to compete in a fair fight for voters' votes and by making sure that this is not the right choice. Do it! Tell people they should want to... for you, not for the Russian Union, but you do not learn it. It doesn't work for you. You can only ban it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U27	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U28	We heard a beautiful speech from Moscow and almost wanted to cry, but now, there's no such folly to speak from the parliamentary tribunal. The Saeima Member needs to know the history of Latvia, in my opinion. And in the history of Latvia during parliamentary democracy there was the Workers' and Farmers' Party, or the Latvian Actual Communist Party, which was also elected in 3 and 4. In the family. And 4. In the Saeima this party was banned by law, and Members were arrested for acting against the independence of Latvia. And if we have pro-cremic parties in Latvia... By the way, also, Moscow did not like the fact that the democratic Latvian Saeima formed this Workers' and Farmers' Party, and Moscow was angry, but then killed the leader of this party - when he moved to Moscow, in 1937, during the cleaning operation... against the Latvians living in the Soviet Union. At the moment, too, we are in a situation where we don't need the Kremlin's peacocks in the Saeima... or let's call them in different words... working against the interests of Latvia. I think that the list should be longer and should not be limited to the Russian Union of Latvia, but to any pro-cremic party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U29	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so? ( Internouncing call.) There is nothing to add. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application of 10 168 Latvian citizens “On a Single Society Without the Russian Union of Latvia””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, The Foreign Affairs Commission has submitted its own proposal - draft decision on Russia's targeted military attacks on Ukrainian civilians and public space. Are Members opposed to examining this own-initiative proposal at today's sitting? There is no objection by Members. We will begin to examine this draft decision. Dear colleagues, The Ambassador of Ukraine to Latvia of His Excellency Oleksandrs Miščenko is also present at the Saeima's meeting room. So, on behalf of the Foreign Affairs Commission, Member Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U30	Dear President of the Saeima. Your Excellency! Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Last week, the Foreign Affairs Commission of the Saeima watched and unanimously supported the communication “On Russia’s targeted military attacks against civilians and public space in Ukraine”, agreeing that the Foreign Affairs Commission will direct this statement to the Saeima. On the content and substance of the communication, a very brief introduction to the context. According to the Office of the Prosecutor General of Ukraine, since 24 February this year, Russia has committed more than 26 thousand war crimes. A thousand civilians have been killed, including over 360 children. Home lost 3.5 million people. 12 million were forced to leave their homes, and five million Ukrainians had to leave their country. The invaders have taken over the Zaporizhia nuclear power plant - the largest facility in Europe - to threaten nuclear safety. The atrocities committed by the Russian armed forces against the civilian population of Ukraine - torture, rape, murder, distortion - are so inhuman, so openly demonstrated that such a statement, which we are currently looking at, cannot in any way be an amazing or disproportionate evaluation that could provoke anyone, because terrorism looks exactly that way. Before I vote in favour or against or without a courageous vote, I would like to read to you the whole text of this statement. Questions about validity after hearing it may hardly arise. So the text of the communication. I quote the whole text of the statement: “The announcement by the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on Russia’s targeted military attacks against Ukrainian civilians and public space. The Saeima of the Republic of Latvia, noting that since the Russian unprovoked military attack on Ukraine on 24 February 2022, 12 million Ukrainians have been forced to leave their homes and more than five million have left their country; bearing in mind that Russia has, since 2014, been a military, financial and political support for separatists and violence against civilians in the regions of Donetsk and Luhansk in Ukraine, as well as the Occupied Crimean Peninsula; emphasising Russia's long-term support for terrorist regimes and organisations, as well as their financing, namely the fact that Russia is the largest weapon supplier of the Asad regime in Syria and has implemented terrorist attacks in sovereign countries, including the Indition of the District of the District of Scrills in the United Kingdom and the Malaysia's airlines “ Malaysia Airlines” flight MH-17 aircraft, which killed 298 people; reminding Russia of the Russian forces's consecution against the civilian population, including the deliberate attack of the Maripolian family, which killed approximately 600 people, including the tortured anti-fightying anti-fighty measures against the anti-fighting forces in the anti-the-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-San, as a partial anti-a anti-a-a-a-a-a-a-fty-a-a anti-a anti-a anti-fty preventive preventive preventive preventive preventive preventive-aededed measures against anti-anti-a crack-as-as-as-as-as-as-as-a crack anti-a crack anti-as-s-s anti-a anti-a anti-a anti-a anti-a anti-a anti-a anti anti-a anti-a anti-a anti-a anti- a anti anti anti anti anti- a anti- a anti- a anti- a anti- a anti- a anti anti- a anti anti- a anti- a anti anti- a anti- a anti- a anti- a anti- a anti- a anti- a anti- a anti- a anti- a anti- a anti- a anti- a anti- a anti- a anti anti anti anti anti anti anti anti anti anti anti anti anti anti- a anti anti anti anti anti anti anti anti anti- a anti- a anti- a less than 24 hours after the agreement signed by Ukraine and Russia through Turkey and the United Nations on the resumption of exports of cereals blocked in Ukraine across the Black Sea - with which Russia demonstrated its disdain over its commitments, international institutions and procedures, as well as its consciously deepened the global food crisis, which will cause hunger and suffering throughout the world; emphasising the immoral and illegal nature of the tactics chosen by Russia, through the widespread use of especially cruel and inaccurate weapons that distort and cause particular suffering, Russia violates international norms through this type of ammunition. The Russian forces in Ukraine use the internationally prohibited cluster munitions to sow fear and kill civilians without determination; recalling that Latvia recognises Russia's actions as a targeted genocide against the Ukrainian people, stresses that Russia is targeting the civilian population in Ukraine with a targeted approach to suffering and intimidation as an instrument in its attempts to demoralise the Ukrainian people and armed forces, to paralyze the state power of Ukraine; acknowledges Russia's violence against the civilian population, terrorism and Russia as a supporting country for terrorism, and calls on other countries to give such an opinion; strongly condemns the military aggression and large-scale invasion of the Russian Federation in Ukraine, conducted with the support and involvement of the Russian regime; calls on the Euro-Atlantic community and its partners to urgently strengthen and introduce comprehensive sanctions against the Russian Federation against the Russian Federation in order to stop the Russian army's ability to continue its military aggression in Ukraine, to increase military, financial, humanitarian and diplomatic support for Ukraine, and to unanimously support initiatives to punish Russian military actions against the Russian regime and its partners; calls for the urgent use of sanctions against the Russian Federation, including anti-bal and anti-bal-dumping anti-dumping measures against anti-dumping measures against anti-dumping measures against anti-dumping and anti-dumping measures against anti-dumping measures against anti-dumping measures against anti-dumping measures against anti-and anti-dumping measures against anti-singing measures against anti-and anti-sing anti-sing anti-sing anti-sing anti-sing anti-sing anti-s and anti-sing anti-s against antising antising antis against antising antis against antising antisssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss and against antisssssssssssss against against antis against against antisssssssssssssss and against antis and against antis and against antis against antis and against antis against antis againsts againsts againsts againsts againsts against antis againsts againsts againsts againsts and againsts againsts againsts againsts and against antis againsts againsts againsts againsts againsts and againsts againsts againsts againsts againsts and againsts againsts againsts againsts against End of notification. According to President Zelenskis of Ukraine: “The difference between terrorists and Russia is that terrorists claim themselves to be responsible for their actions, but Russia cannot even do so and try to accuse others of their oaths. It is important for us that, even if Russia rejects the achievements of its “violent” military operation, we, together with the rest of the democratic world, call the State of the Aggressors the appropriate words and treat the State of support for terrorism with its own attitude." That is why, by adopting this statement, we express Latvia's vision and assessment and also move the rest of the European Union to act on this issue. If Russia were included in the list of countries supporting terrorism in the European Union, this would have clear consequences not only for the Russian state, but also for its citizens. Colleagues, on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, ask the Saeima to support the draft statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U31	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Krista Bauman.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U32	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Everyone who looks at us and listens to us! I am in favour of calling things in the right words. These words, too, are harsh and unpleasant, but what is happening in Ukraine is not just harsh and unpleasant, it is terrible and criminal. The Saeima has already adopted a statement in spring calling Russia's actions a genocide against the Ukrainian people. Since then, we have seen evidence of even more terrible events: torture, rape, and the savage killing of civilians. Before the invasion in Ukraine, we witnessed the poisoning of Russian opponents and citizens of the European Union by Novičok not only in Russia, but right here in Europe, to demolish passenger planes, to support human trafficking... with a neighboring dictator. How can we appreciate this? In our statement, we call for Russia's actions to be referred to as terrorist and Russian - a country that supports terrorism. Since the Russian invasion into Ukraine, I was pleased that all Members - both positions and opposition - unanimously supported the condemnation of Russia's actions. Today this has changed, because unfortunately, as I understand from the public statements, the statement of consensus is seen as provocative and will not be voted. That, colleagues, is regrettable. ‘ The politicians, before and after each election, complain about the red lines that prevent them from being placed in the government. Here you finally make it clear to yourself that you are looking and afraid to name things in the right words, perhaps not to be angry with the former cooperation partner, Putin's United Russia party. Liberty and servitude at a time when a terrible war is taking place near our borders, involving two of our neighbours, is unacceptable. Instead of fearing to provoke our words and attitudes, we must clearly demonstrate the orientation of values both in words and in works. We need to take the lead in this regard in the European Union and other international organisations, to set an example and to convince our partners to use more and more strong words and works to limit and stop Russia's actions. In addition to the next round of sanctions, other restrictions, including the issuing of tourist visas to Russian citizens, should also be considered. It would be a clear signal that Russian citizens cannot shop in Paris hiding in Verbier, keep money in Switzerland, relax in southern European resorts, but at the same time behave like the Soviet Union and support the Russian Empire wars loudly. Enjoying democracy in the European Union for third-country nationals is not a right but a privilege that the Member States are competent to grant or deny. As the Ukrainian Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dmitri Kuleba, said yesterday, Russian citizens must not be allowed to cross borders until they learn to respect them. Colleagues, I am convinced that no one in this Chamber has any doubt that Russia is carrying out war against Ukraine, but also genocide and terrorism, but not everyone has the courage to say it aloud. Let us call the true words of the case and vote in favour of this statement by the Foreign Affairs Commission! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U33	Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U34	Hello, honourable Members! Honourable Members! The statement. In particular, the declaratory part of the statement repeats the statements already made in the previous statements. Such repetition does not, in our opinion, increase the importance of parliamentary declarations, but undermines the authority expressed. ‘ The Social Democratic Party condemns the Russian Federation's invasion of Ukraine. The shocks of missiles on civilian sites, the atrocities committed against peaceful citizens are war crimes. They must be punished both by certain performers, by victims and by those who justify them. This communication contains two new initiatives which, in the opinion of the Group, are not rational, namely to recognise Russia as a supporting country for terrorism, and to call on the Member States of the European Union to immediately suspend tourism visas and to restrict the issuing of entry visas to the citizens of the Russian Federation and Belarus. Yes, the statement is consistent with President Zelenskis who, on 27 June, called on the U.S. State Department to recognise Russia as a supporting state for terrorism, and also told the members of the G7 Summit in Germany. As a result, Zelenski called for the opening of a new sanction front against Russia. quote: “The Russian state has become the largest terrorist organisation in the world. That is the fact. And that must be a legal fact. And everyone in the world needs to know that to buy or transport Russian oil, to keep in touch with Russian banks, to pay taxes and taxes on the Russian state - it is to give money to terrorists,” stressed Zelenski. Everyone is well aware that Zelenski expresses the will of his people, the army and civilians to resist the invasion, that he is trying to use all possible tools, as well as legal, and increasingly new and new tools. However, the French President, Emmanuel Macron, questioned Zelensk's call. ‘ We do not need any qualifications to implement these sanctions” against Moscow for its invasion into Ukraine, said Macron. And he knows what he says. ‘ A supporting country’ is a term applied by the U.S. Department of State to countries that claim to have provided support to acts of international terrorism on several occasions. Currently, it is Cuba, Iran, North Korea and Syria. Inclusion in the list of countries that support terrorism entails strict unilateral sanctions - bans on arms exports, bans on economic aid, various financial and other restrictions. The list is maintained in accordance with US internal laws and regulations – state defence law, arms export control law and foreign aid law. However, the sanctions already imposed by the US against Russia at the moment are in fact in excess of those applied against the countries on the list. Due to Russia's support for separatists in Ukraine over the eight years, to designate a country that supports Russia as a country that now supports terrorism would mean expanding the conflict area, thus exacerbating tensions that are essentially in the interests of invaders. There is another point. On 1 August, the newspaper The Washington Post published an article by international law experts, an international law journalist, Ingrīda Brunka Verta, editor-in-chief of the American International Law Journal, on the call by President Zelensk and his like-minded U.S. Congress House of Representatives Spequer Nancy Pelosi to President Baden to identify Russia as a supporting state for terrorism. The newspaper reads (quot): “A country that supports terrorism: this is not a symbolic act to punish countries that behave poorly. On the contrary, it is a legal trigger that has been incorporated into extremely complicated legislation and regulation. This status has consequences that are not easy to withdraw, but sometimes even predict, and some of these consequences will be negative for Ukraine and US interests. The Secretary of State, Entony Blinken, must not identify Russia as a supporting state for terrorism; the Congress should stop forcing him to do so, and the Congress should not try to do this on its own, in particular because the members of the Congress who call for it have failed to explain what specific sanctions (or other consequences) might result from the determination and why they would be useful. They ignore the impact on domestic justice." ( End quoted) If the U.S. Department of State does not, however, include Russia in the list of countries supporting terrorism, it will become even more evident that expressing solidarity with the Ukrainian people in words, it is the purpose of certain Latvian politicians to put their ratings in the fire of war during the pre-elections. On suspension of the issuance of tourist visas. That is, in my view, a shameful initiative. It is a very primitive and provincial policy. Provincially because of the light and ignore long-term consequences. Provincially because it is rooted in the deafness and ineducation of the soul. Most of those who have moved from Russia have left by receiving a tourist visa, and there was simply no other way out of Russia. The travelers, albeit temporarily, from a country whose citizens are subject to strict police supervision and repression, have always been understood in other countries. During the years of the Iron Curtain, European democracy was seen as a honour to welcome as many people as possible. Imagine how it would have been if anyone who wanted to leave the USSR pushed back with the words: “No, you will first make a revolution!” That is why the representatives of the Russian opposition outside Russia in the Russian Anti-War Committee have condemned the proposal by the Member States of the European Union to ban the issuing of visas. The Committee's submission states that it respects Ukrainian society's feelings as well as people's feelings in the Russian neighbourhood, but calls for visa blockade for all Russian citizens are sad examples in recent European history... and play the Kremlin. Enemies don't come here, here are those who are favourable to Latvia. Instead of strengthening their sympathy towards Latvia, the potential allies would be punished. The initiative of the authors of the proposal treats Russian and Belarusian citizens not against the Kremlin, but against countries that will introduce visa bans. The communication initiative gives the second breath to those Russian and Belarusian reactionary politicians who, if adopted, will be able to say, 'We say that we do not love us there!' The number of Latvian enemies, Ukrainian enemies will not decrease with this. For the reasons I have mentioned, the Group will not take part in the vote. Thank you for your attention, ladies and gentlemen. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U35	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U36	Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! I will, of course, support this statement, which can be called for, but I call for an end to the declarations and for practical steps to be taken. It is already easy to declare, and then we look at what we are doing. We're still... Latvia is free to operate companies whose shareholder is Gazprom. Not only do they operate with energy, but they also manipulate energy. Not just doing that. I think it is quite obvious that it is also involved in the political process. Besides... without funding the Latvian Russian Union, which... We just gave the draft decision to the commission... but something else. I hope someone looks at it. The second thing we could do is to move from declarations to practical execution; that is, I am sorry, not to let 1000 Russian citizens into Latvia, but to close the television now registered in Latvia, which criticises Western policy in the context of Russia from morning to evening. Yes, easy, perhaps even heavy criticism of Putin, but actually stands on the side of Russian imperialism - as you say, stable on two feet. The only thing we needed to say to us was a human obligation to allow in Latvia... There are those people from Russia who have opposed Russian imperialism since Putin came to power, at least since Crimea's occupation. How many 1000 people who are currently in Latvia opposed the occupation of Crimea in 2014? I think there will be no 10 percent of them, but we have given them visas and allowed them into the country of Latvia. That would be what we should start with, not as they say... at least after acceptance of this declaration... But it was better before... Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U37	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U38	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Just from this troupe, we heard that Mr Pimenova, in principle, made it clear and clear that he called the activities of the Russian army in Ukraine a terrorism - it is not rational. That is what has been said. It could have been understood that this is the official position of the Group. I guess if it's discussed in a fraction... and that this reflects the opinion of the whole group. And if it was said it wasn't rational... And in general, so to speak, former colleagues, too... that it is not rational, so now I want to get some argument from you, Mr. Pimenova - what is not rational here? I looked at the definitions of terrorism. There's a lot of them, but one at all quite a... accepted and... I will read to you: 'Terrorism is an illegal use of force or compulsion against persons or property with a view to intimidating or forcing the government, the state or its citizens to achieve political goals'. So please say, which part of this definition is not, in your opinion, rational for what the Russians are doing in Ukraine? Do you see that it is legitimate what Russia is doing? Do you believe that it is not directed against persons, against Ukrainians, against their property; that it is not with the aim of intimidation, compulsion? Is Russia not seeking any political goals? I think that you, colleagues, still need to make a distinction - whether you are about Latvia or you are about Russia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U39	Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U40	Colleagues! A couple of remarks about what you heard... more than that: towards a social-democratic party. The colleagues were very pleased to quote the leaders of other countries who question this step... progress; specifically referred to U.S. Secretary of State Entony Blinken, quoted what he has said. I will also say to the Secretary of State of the United States, Entony Blinken, what he said when he visited Kazakhstan in January this year. We remember that there was a conflict situation in Kazakhstan. And his knowledge was simple: “When the Russians have arrived in your home, it is difficult to get them away.” And in these circumstances, the Foreign Affairs Commission... I draw attention here to the fact that the Foreign Affairs Commission unanimously - unanimously! - supported the draft statement and its progress towards the Saeima. Unanimous, without objections. So every moment the question arises: where do you get the instructions, how do you put it? I understand, after 24 February, you with one vote in the Saeima... a statement condemning Russia's aggression... now you walk around as with an order on your breasts, but the war is going on, and it's about to be 170 days, and it's about to be half a year. And to say that we have once expressed our attitude?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We can see that the atrocities that are being committed are becoming increasingly terrible every time, and it cannot be said that we have condemned it once. It must be kept constant - not only for us ourselves, but for the international community as a whole - about what Russia, the Russian regime, is. And it is all the more important to point out that Russian society has been condemned... Unfortunately, the absolute majority still supports the policy pursued by the regime. In this case, I call on Members of the SAMAN to think about the fact that Russia has not officially declared war against Ukraine, instead disguised behind the “special military operation”. This, of course, prevents Russia from making a general mobilisation. Instead, Russia pays, I understand, decent sums to the contractors, namely those who are going to war in Ukraine on a contractual basis - killing, not fighting. Slaying, rape, distorting. The news comes that the warbucks are castrated... This does not mean that these people are in the caravan until they are either injured (at best, of course), or... “Creation 200” - this is the name of the time. They can at any time when they are tired... When they drink their mind, they have killed a number of Ukrainian civilians in their delirium, they can break the treaty at any time, and they can... There will be no responsibility from Russia. There is no violation of military service, as they say, because they war on a contractual basis. They are paid a decent sum, and they go back to their wife, their children. And in this case... Let's think, or of these thousands, of these tens of thousands that are now passing through this aggression machine... Also Russian citizens... Don't they do, let's take it, let's keep it... No, not permanent, but multiple entry visas - no, I am not saying that Latvia, but another country - has already received... Well, I don't know, 2018, 2019? Because it's five years. And then these people think: after they get their income, let's go with our wife and children to rest in the Baltic States. We must prevent Russian citizens from entering the European Union for an indefinite period not only in Latvia but in the European Union. The citizens of Russia must have the consequences of their country's widespread violence against the Ukrainian people. Those Russian citizens who are being persecuted in Russia are being oppressed for all opportunities to apply for political asylum, for refugee status - not only in Latvia, but in all countries of the European Union. And please don't be here to tell you that we're going to get some kind of goodness in this way! Our actions do not need to be to conquer the hearts of Russian citizens now. You have to turn... You just have to open your eyes to... which is the regime that governs their country. I think in this regard, too, I also need to look in the mirror and be quite open to myself. With one vote in favour of one statement, you will not mask the goat foot that keeps coming out of your party, from your party members, from your position towards an aggressor state, from a state that supports terrorism - the Russian Federation. Colleagues, I call for support for the draft parliamentary statement. ( Some Members are applauding.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U41	The name to Member Igor Pimenov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U42	The second time I had to wait for all the critics, our position critics, to stand up from this platform, but... However, if the name is given, then - through the shelves. First. Mr. Dombrovskis. What is rational and not rational in the communication, I said quite articulately in my first speech. It is not just about terrorism, Vjačeslav, it is about establishing a country that supports terrorism for Russia. This concept is already very specific in the US internal documents. I'm not going to talk about it any longer, it's just a matter of your education. Look, there's a lot of comment on the Internet. Secondly. The statement by Blinken, whose Member, Richard Coll, quoted, was articulated in January, when there were events in Kazakhstan - even before the war. Now we are looking forward to Mr Blinken's opinion when the war in Ukraine is developing in full swing and it is not clear when it will end. The situation is completely different. Mr. Cole says he wants to be there. Mr. Kohl's bitterness because of the fact that Latvia's left politicians don't see the usual goal; that's why Mr. KolaS SASKAN'S politician's position is called the Order. This position is designed, understood and repeated every time we face criticisms at our address. And this position is not an order. We supported the parliamentary statements, not because we wanted to be under your hand, Mr Cole, but because we are truly experiencing the disasters that occur in our south. My generation, raised in a non - earthly country, remembers Ukraine as their own country. The Ukrainians and all the others who are here right now understand very well that it is our common misfortune, all that is happening in Ukraine, and we condemn the country that started colonial war against its former allies, but the position of SAID is very clear. I'll repeat it while I have time. I'd like to show you this order again, Richard. ( Internouncing call.) The party condemns the Russian Federation's invasion of Ukraine. The shocks of missiles on civilian sites, the atrocities committed against peaceful citizens are war crimes, which are punishable both by certain performers, victims and those who justify these crimes. And I think that the task of Latvian politicians is also to make such action possible as soon as possible, so that criminals are punished and not multiplied... once every month, a new statement with the same statements that are actually real but that are gradually losing their value. The opinion and communication of the Latvian Saeima is very valuable. I call for serious consideration to be given to what we support from the highest station in the Republic of Latvia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U43	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U44	Dear colleagues, When the Ukrainian President, Mr Zelensk, spoke at a distance in the Saeima a few months ago, it was on the agenda of the Saeima that, if I am not mistaken, we had to correct the mistake once again with regard to the support of the Ukrainian civilian population. And even in this draft decision, no matter how much anyone wants to turn out to be in the run-up to the pre-elections, there is no mention of the mistakes that the Saeima and these Members who have spoken from the tribunal have made due to negligence or neglect, because it is more important for them to position themselves in the right words, so that they look good. But who of these people who have been speaking from the Tribunal today has really helped Ukrainian civilians and has always voted to give Ukrainian civilians every opportunity? I know that Mr Kola voted against many draft laws. Mr. Col's education... The bachelor's degree in humanities in history is Mr. Dombrava's education. Mr. Col's education is Master's degree in international diplomacy...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U45	Mrs Stepanenko... Mrs Stepanenko, please speak (The Head of the sitting knocked down with a hammer.) on a specific draft decision, not on Members. ( Internouncing call.) Be so kind and talk about the draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U46	Yeah, thank you. I am talking about Members who have drawn up this draft decision...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U47	Talk about the draft decision, please.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U48	... Mr. Dombrava's education and Mr. Kola's education certainly allow the...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U49	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U50	I'll go on. Thank you. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U51	Ladies and gentlemen! This is about very simple things: words and works. Mr Schmidt has already said about this: we should work on one, the other, the third in order to show our solidarity with the Ukrainian people. Any war is a tragedy, a tragedy for both sides, but above all for the victim who is being attacked. We all understand it very well and feel it very well. All of them. But beyond what has been done and not done. I do not know why we have not noted, even if, when calculating military assistance to Ukraine - the military assistance to Ukraine provided by Latvia - per capita, to your knowledge, the amount of this assistance is three times greater than that provided by the US. Helping refugees... with all the errors... There was some contradiction here in the Saeima - to help, not to help, to support, not to support? I think it wasn't, because it was works. Today's debate is not about works, but about words. There is a saying in the East: “You can say the word “halva” a hundred times, and your mouth doesn’t stay more sweet of it.” These statements do not leave anyone more bitter or sweet, since only works produce real effects. And here too, when it comes to words, there should be caution. Please tell me, the Taliban is a terrorist organisation within the meaning of international institutions? And! This is recognised in United Nations instruments. Abandoned weapons and ammunition in Afghanistan - these dimensions are incomparably larger than the entire amount of ammunition and weapons that have been given to Ukraine during the war. Is it support for terrorism or is it not? Let us be honest. In fact, yes. So I think you shouldn't be too busy with words and words... with mouthwash, but you have to think about the work. That is why the Group also will not vote in favour of this statement, because there are a lot of statements, work - there may be more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U52	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U53	Hello, colleagues! Every day we are reporting events from Ukraine, and these events are tragic, they are facts, and they are human lives. That is why I, as well as our Conservatives, fully understand and support the need for such a parliamentary statement. At the same time, I would like to express my support for Mr Zelenska's proposal that there should be a ban on Russian citizens entering the countries of the European Union, and I hope that our foreign experts will prepare such a decision so that, for my part, I can also support such a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U54	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U55	Dear colleagues, I would like to say three things in response to what colleagues have said. First. Are you serious about saying that words do not matter? What are we doing here in the Saeima if words don't matter? The point is that there are words followed by works where words and works go together. Words are very important, since then people have the opportunity to see if their words are followed by works, works that are consistent with or incompatible with words. That's the first. Second. Mr Pimenova, without voting - it is not a position, not to participate in the vote - is not a position. If you say, on behalf of the Group, that this statement, this resolution, is not rational, then also vote accordingly. If you say it is not rational, you must vote against it. And the third. Mr. Pimenov, you're all... for irrational and so on, it's not terrorism... you tell the Ukrainian people. Tell them to those who have lost their relatives, relatives, friends because of what is happening in Ukraine. All the more so. As the Ambassador of Ukraine is sitting here in the Chamber, I have a request to Mr. Ambassador: Mr Ambassador, could you, please, please, give Mr Pimenova and, if necessary, his colleagues the opportunity to ensure that he can, when he looks at these people, also tell them what he said from the platform. Tell it in your eyes, Mr. Pimenov! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U56	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U57	Colleagues, on the statement and on those colleagues who present this statement to the Saeima today. I would like to say that, when drawing up this statement, these people, our fellow Members, could certainly have done better with such experience and education. That was what I wanted to say in my first speech, because we clearly see that three countries are mentioned in this communication: Belarus, Russia, and Syria, too, have our attention. We understand that this document is intended not only for internal movement and information, for informing citizens, but certainly... most likely also will be translated into different languages, not one of them, and will be distributed internationally, as there are calls for other countries as well. Well then, in this case, my fellow Members, such chaotic words and so many stylistic mistakes in your own language, Mr Dombrava and Mr Cole, you could have prevented. By reading this draft decision, you will find both that... There must be no use at all, colleagues, of what is happening at the moment, of its tragedies. You're using them. And it's not funny at all. But, know how you wrote - to use suffering and to harm civilians without determination - it's a cynical hill, which is written in this draft of your decision. With higher education in your mother tongue! This is regrettable! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U58	Colleagues, I would like to remind you that this is a statement by the Foreign Affairs Commission. ( Internouncing call.) So let us continue the debate. The name of the Member, John Isal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U59	Hello, colleagues! When Vjačeslav Dombrovskis was on the line, he used to tell members of the Saeima that we had gone to this Saeima to accompany the National Alliance in our russophobia, in the criticism of Russia, but today I hear that Vjačeslav speaks like this, well... how I might have written his speeches. (Laughter) Thank you very much. Vjačeslav, welcome to the club! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U60	Colleagues, however, I will remind you that we have formal communication at the Saeima sittings. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U61	This time, President, I am sorry, not particularly about the statement. I would like to say two words about the ethics of the debate. You know, you can blame anyone for everything, but you just don't have to talk about being ashamed to look at someone. Unlike Mr Dombrovskis, my colleagues and I have gone to Ukraine before the war to help people carry out territorial reform. By the way, we met with the Members of the Supreme Rada as well. And all those works were devoted to helping Ukraine to improve its democratic foundations and also to improving the situation they had. Therefore, we should not be accused of being ashamed to look in the eyes. I'm not ashamed to look in my eyes. My wife, my closest relatives are Ukrainians. My wife is also a Ukrainian woman, so I may be in pain with more than one another. But that doesn't mean we have to deal with criminal folly. There is no question here about whether or not anyone is defending Russia or is dealing with Russian... Russophobia or not with russophobia, this is about fair, normal and rational action, not muttering. Thank you. ( A few people go round.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U62	The name to Member Richard Cole for the second time. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Col: “No, thank you.” ) The name of Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U63	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Sir, In my opinion, this document could also be broader, as many of the declarative phrases mentioned here are mentioned in the documents previously supported by the Saeima. Undoubtedly, we have condemned this Russian hostilities in the Saeima. There is no need to hide behind terms such as some “special operation” or something like that. It is really an invasion of Russia in Ukraine, a full-spectrum war is taking place with everything that results from it. However, if we make such statements, we would call on the Foreign Minister first to go to the relevant formats within the European Union, to agree on a similar position within the European Union, perhaps within the framework of all NATO countries. The Prime Minister should also go to the relevant formats and speak on these issues to the same extent. If we see that there is still Russian capital in various companies, the banks still have funds related to Russia, then, in my opinion, we should go much more widely and recast this document, make it more extensive. It could include a number of Russia-related individuals and organisations that have no place in the European Union. Otherwise, what happens? Financing war. If we could read very recently, two days ago, in the media that gas flows into Latvia from Russia, this means that each euro paid, converted into rubles, goes to the Russian budget, which in turn finances the terrible war against Ukraine. Colleagues, therefore, in my opinion, we have looked a little bit too narrowly at this document, which must be much wider. If we are talking about a ban on entering the relevant persons in Latvia, then obviously we should also talk about two parts. So some of them are Russian citizens who do not support the actions of the Russian regime, others who support them. And then, would the safety authorities be able to separate this issue? That is also a very topical issue. In my opinion, there must be a much broader range in this document, it must be extended. At the moment, I think it is too narrow, and this document does not, in fact, foresee that we, as a country, should help Ukraine in exactly the form that the President of Ukraine has asked for, so not as many declarative phrases as the military has been asked for. If we look at Lithuania's actions, for example, the Lithuanians themselves have donated for the purchase of Bayraktar to send it to Ukraine. In Latvia, however, such shares have not even taken place, no one has initiated them. And does the Latvian army... Has the Ministry of Defence, therefore, worked sufficiently to help the military? War is currently taking place in Ukraine in military form, in military phase, so I think we should think about how we can help Ukraine to win this war, because there are only two options: either Russia or Ukraine. We all, of course, want Ukraine to win, and that is why we need to promote Ukraine's victory not only with documents and declaratory phrases, but also with financial means, with the help of the army, with various military means, so that this war will finally be ended and Russia will be condemned to the greatest loss of war. This in turn would force the people of the Russian Federation to reassess the ability of their regime to lead the country. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call for the content of this document to be broadened in any way, because it is currently too narrow and contains declaratory phrases that we have already decided on here and which we have supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U64	The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U65	Colleagues! A Member fulfills his promises, although he may change his parties - travelling from one to another, third, fourth, even five parties are replaced. And for the sake of the example, I'll mention Vjačeslav Dombrovskis, who is now pointing to SAID... It is not a position that we are not voting on. These issues of today can be linked together... Former so-called ‘Prime Minister’ of the so-called ‘Donetsk People's Republic’. What do you mean, how did Vyacheslav Dombrovskis vote? No vote - it is not a position. And here you were, the moment you should have voted, Vjačeslav Dombrovskis is... You didn't vote! And represented him. Today he's singing a completely different song. I therefore call on both Members and citizens to watch Members vote and not - as they speak. Thank you. ( Some people go round.) (See the box below.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U66	Name to Member Janis Urbanovich.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U67	President of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Clearly, I didn't intend to go at all and I didn't want to, but now Mrs Baumane encouraged me so much that I could't let your hope down... I'll try to answer you. You see, my fellow Members, there would be no problem there - this, just like everyone else... until 1 October... statements about who is responsible for the disasters that happen right here in Ukraine, and that are seen on television and on the Internet... I could be the first to be and agile: support everything without a word and add some more ridiculous words! Because now it looks like a copy and paste... is printed in Cola Canton... What others have said before good time... And trying to make it... To say more and more... what the Lews did in May and in many other places... There's a lot to say... This means that Mr Kola is following up in the international field, and it helps him drown one statement after the other. But, colleagues, the problem is more severe, more difficult. You can, of course, pretend that you do not see that it is really important, as our every step, our statement, our words... how they materialize in our Latvian belongings what they hear from it. What is also heard by those who speak Russian at home. What they hear through this that we say... Basically, they hear that all Russians are the same: they do not need to be put in, and those who are here need to be crave (this is written). And more. I want to say that, of course, you can juggle with sayings, with diplomatic moves, calling on others who do the same thing, but... I think that the times may ever come when there will be Members in the Saeima who will represent the different, highly divided, unfortunately, people of Latvia and who will try and do not touch any of Latvia's members in their speech and action. It was a wonderful time after 24 February... And I'm not saying that it was good that there was this war... But one moment was when many politicians, smart people, who had lived in politics, have made progress, talking about the fact that we should take care that the positive energy of this protest does not stand against our own Russians. We should go and summarize each of the cries, we should make the Russians of Latvia our allies (inter-saxon.) , not to provoke their negativeness and thus reject them from working together for the benefit of Latvia. That's what you want! You've always done this. Generations of the National Association have changed, but each time it was necessary to do something good... Come on, come on, come on. In 2014, 2018, all years have been – “Latvians, don’t give up because Russians are coming!” . And now it's cool... There's Russians coming somewhere... You want them to come here? There's a lot of them here. ( Internouncing call.) There's a lot of them here. And you, please, sometime... I think the services that collect all the information... if they listen to some conversations in the sauna and elsewhere, they could also be a little offensive to those who are rumoring life here in Latvia. If, today, next to this draft communication on what is going on in Ukraine, there would be a second draft of our communication - how are we all, as one, intolerant to every provocator who is trying to make wars here - here in public transport or in some microdistricts... You want that?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, Now you get it. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U68	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Foreign Affairs Commission to this draft communication from the Saeima?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U69	Yeah. On behalf of the Commission, there are a few clarifications, which have also been made from the debate and which concern the draft communication. It is not just some exclusive panacea of the Foreign Affairs Commission. Members - according to the Rule of Procedure - can prepare their projects, as they see them all. This applies to you too, Mr Nemiro. And, Mr. Urbanovich, you too. You say there should have been another one in parallel... DECLARE, prepare your draft notification safely! Let's see which commission to hand over, let's see, let's move, let's move. This is a draft statement drawn up by the Foreign Affairs Commission, supported unanimously by the Foreign Affairs Commission, which the Commission is asking to consider today in the Saeima and to adopt as a statement by the Saeima. The other thing. It was pointed out that... Yeah, I realize there's some kind of personal attack and triple... on the level of education of one Member or the other... And so on, but... Here, I will reply to Mrs Stepanenko that this committee has led (Inter-referencing) ... led by the Commission (Interdependence.) ... On behalf of the Commission, I respond to you that the draft communication led by the Commission is very scrupulous... has passed through the hand of the Saeima's corrector. Only after the action of the Saeima corrective officers (inter-speakers.) ... A version in front of you (Interfaces.) , meets all the grammatical requirements of the Latvian language. ( Milestones.) So... It's on behalf of the Commission. ( Milestones.) It's on behalf of the Commission! ( Milestones.) There were criticisms about the quality of the report. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Medicines cause noise.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U70	Colleagues (Sitting Manager knocked with hammer.) , the rapporteur shall report on behalf of the Commission. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U71	That's it! ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U72	Please do not interfere with the report.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U73	Wait... Yes, I realize there were accusations about quality, grammar. On behalf of the Commission, I have reported that by approving the text of the communication, before it was brought to the Saeima, it has been examined scrupulously by industry professionals - grammar, Latvian professionals (Intersaxes.) , Saeima correctors - and it meets all the requirements of Latvian grammar, spell laws. If Members are blamed, please contact and instruct professionals in the sector. , where the comma was to be laid or where one or the other name was to be changed. On behalf of the Commission, I call on the Saeima to support the draft statement drawn up by the Foreign Affairs Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U74	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on Russia's targeted military attacks on Ukrainian civilians and public space! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one to - 67, against and refrain from - 67. Decision adopted. Communication adopted. Colleagues, on the agenda - consideration of Members' request. The request made by Members. Members Viktors Valainis, Janīna Jalinska, Jānis Dūklavs, Jānis Vucans, Armands Krauze, Uldis Augulis, Romanas Naudiņš, Gundars Dauge, Ramona Petravičs and Karina Sprūde have submitted a request to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “On the government’s procrastination in a dreadful energy crisis”. The name of Member Uldis Auglim - to motivate the request.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U75	Thank you very much to the honourable Speaker of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, We have prepared a request to the Prime Minister, "On the delay of the government in a dangerous energy crisis". In our view, there is currently no plan for how we will compensate for the overall price increase, because the action taken so far is late and insufficient. Yes, today we have referred some part of the crisis plan to the Commission, but we must bear in mind that just recently, in public surveys, most citizens - 63 percent of those surveyed - have indicated that they have not received a wage supplement this year. This means that, with inflation that has already reached a two-digit level, quite a number of households will have difficulties paying heating bills. The heating season is coming! The government must do everything to promote the availability of indigenous energy, wood products on the market. For example, it should be considered to limit fuel exports so that more chips and other fuel materials remain in Latvia, so as not to cause fuel deficit and price rises. The question at the moment is, of course, about the ability of municipalities... Local governments have indicated that there is little clarity about the situation in the next heating season and about the necessary steps to prepare properly, because those households that will not be able to pay will turn to local governments and municipalities will have to help these households. That is why we are now asking these questions to the Prime Minister and to the members of the government so that they will stop enjoying the pleasure of the holiday and will immediately sit at the negotiating table with local governments, energy suppliers and other stakeholders and decide on complex support measures so that we can expect clear messages for the next heating season. So that there is no such situation that one day the Prime Minister declares that “You can not worry, households! Gas is enough for everyone!’ , but the next day we would hear that “Latvijas Gāze” cannot provide... and in accordance with the law, the status of supplier must be taken over by Latvenergo. That is why we are now asking questions - the relevant questions. You can meet them. However, I call on the Prime Minister, using the situation, to ensure that the Panel's meeting respects the Members of the Saeima... and against the entire parliament. However, one of the ministers responsible for these matters may be delegated. The request was addressed to the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister delegated it to the Minister of Agriculture, the Minister of Economy delegated the answer to the Minister of Agriculture, but in the end none of the Ministers came to the Commission. So that I call on the Prime Minister to ensure, however, that there is respect for Parliament and that at least one minister comes to the Panel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U76	Thank you. The request shall be submitted to the Requesting Commission. Dear colleagues, The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is going to work after the Saeima at the end of this sitting - today it will consider amendments to the Act on Measures to reduce the exceptional increase in energy prices. And so we're planning another Saeima sitting today. So let us follow the work of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. As soon as the Bureau receives a message and, above all, a draft law with attached tables, the Bureau will meet and announce another sitting of the Saeima. As usual, you will be informed on mobile phones - with text messages. Consequently, the agenda of the sitting has been examined. The name of Member Iveta Benhena-Beeken for the announcement.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U77	Hello, colleagues! I informed you that the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has been called in 10 minutes. The sitting will take place on a hybrid basis. The link has been sent to the members of the Commission by e-mail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U78	Thank you. The name of Member, Inese Voika, for the announcement.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U79	Colleagues! On 9 August this year, two years have passed since non-legislative parliamentary elections took place in Belarus, which Latvia has not recognised. The Belarusian democratic movement is continuing. I therefore call on the Members who have joined the Group in support of the Democratic Movement of Belarus to meet in the Yellow House immediately after this meeting to discuss our follow-up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U80	Thank you. Please call me! Please register the Members! Please get the results! As soon as the registration results have been prepared, Inese Voika will read them.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U81	Colleagues! Not registered: Uldis Budrikis, Boriss Cilevičs, Gundars Dauge, Inga Goldberga, Janina Jalinska, Artuss Kaimiņš, Andrejs Klementyevs, Romanas Naudiņš, Vitalijs Orlovs, Dace Rukšāne–Ščipčinska, Ilga Šuplinska, Vita Anda Steel, Viktors Valainis and Ainārs Vilciņš... There's a train.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2399-U82	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
