ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! This morning has brought an alarming message – Russia and Belarus have invaded Ukraine. And we condemn the aggressor for such action and confirm our firmest support for Ukraine in this war, defending its country. The Foreign Affairs Commission of the Saeima will prepare a special announcement of the Saeima, and we will adopt it in a separate sitting of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Let us give this work to Ukraine's victory today. We started the remote emergency sitting of the Saeima on February 24, 2022. Proposals have been submitted for changes to the agenda of the sitting. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks to remove point 6 of the agenda – draft law “Amendments to the Freeport of Riga Law”. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks for another change – to remove the draft law “Amendments to the Freeport of Ventspils Law” from the agenda. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Dear colleagues, On the agenda - Bureau reports. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance” presented by Raivja Dzintars, Krišjānis Feldmans, Jura Pūce, Evita Zalīte-Gross, Andra Skrides, Edmunds Teirumnieks and Ilze Indricsone be referred to the Social and Labour Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible. ‘ On” applied to speak Member Raivis Dzintars. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U2	Dear President, Dear colleagues, Probably talk to you with “Good morning!” It would not be right today. It's a bad morning. May God be present to Ukraine, Europe and the world! But now it's a bill. This draft law provides for social contributions to cover pensions, unemployment and invalidity insurance for a person who is caring for a child under the age of one or more years and who receives parental benefits and child care benefits. Currently, these contributions are made only on the basis of the amount of child care allowance, i.e. EUR 171. The proposal, in turn, provides for them to be made from the total amount of parental benefit and childcare allowance in the future. The current situation, colleagues, is clearly unfair to parents. People who have chosen to give up a child in the world have actually decided to lower their future pension - compared to those who have not made that choice. Currently, one of the parents (and most often the new mother who goes on paid parental leave after the birth of the child) has a much lower contribution to the pension capital than before this leave. Every month, the new mother loses a certain amount of social contributions. When she retires, her pension will be lower for the rest of her life, because she chose to put a baby on the world. Estimates show that with an average salary of around EUR 1000, the monthly pension would be less than EUR 14. Moreover, the more children, the greater this discrimination becomes. If a person with this salary raised three children, then there will be a monthly loss of EUR 42. Every month 42 euros will be lost - for a choice to spend three children on the world! It is one of the greatest injustices against those who raise children. We must not punish parents for their choice and make them pay for it in old age. In addition, funding for future pensions will be provided by their children, while they themselves will have a lower pension. I have already mentioned that most often the child stays at home, so it is she who will later receive a lower pension. According to the European Commission, the average pension received by women in the European Union is 39 percent lower than that received by men. Mother’s responsibilities increase the gender pension gap and create inequalities. Parental social insurance plays a key role in supporting families. I am pleased that, on several occasions, we have succeeded in improving parental social security, both in extending the period of parental benefit to one and a half years, in increasing parental benefit and in improving the qualification conditions for parental benefit. The payment of social contributions during the childcare period is another very important step. It can help us to reduce injustice and improve social support. Moreover, it is set out as one of the work to be done in the action plan of the existing government, which was agreed at least at the time of the agreement between all the coalition parties. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U3	Thank you. One Member has spoken for. Members have not asked for a vote. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the member Andrejs Klementyeva, Vitaly Orlovs, Jānis Urbanovičs, Jānis Krišāns and Valija Agešin’s draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Pensions” be referred to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Mr. Krishan, are you going to talk about it?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U4	Yes!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U5	Name to Member Janis Krishan. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U6	Very respectful head of the Saeima sitting! Colleagues! The sharp rise in prices in 2021 was mainly influenced by three main headings: housing expenditure, transport services and food prices. Consequently, the cost of basic needs, which is the most important for pensioners, for whom pensions are largely low, increased. Less than EUR 200 is 9.5 percent of pensioners. From 200 to 300 euros - 12.9 percent of pensioners. And EUR 300-500 - 54,7 percent of pensioners. Overall, 77.1 percent or 339 045 of pensioners received pensions of less than €500. As a result, these pensioners will experience a particularly difficult price increase and a large part of them will not be able to cover the public utility and their primary needs. A particularly rapid rise in public utility charges this winter will be felt by single or separated pensioners. The purpose of pension indexation is to ensure protection of the awarded pension against a fall in purchasing power, which can be observed as a result of a rapid price rise. The pension indexation in Article 26 of the Law on State Pensions is established once a year, i.e. on 1 October. This draft law provides for the indexation of pensions twice a year - on 1 October and 1 April, if the average level of consumer prices between 1 August of the previous year and 31 January of the current year is equal to or greater than five per cent. If in 2022, pursuant to the provisions of Section 26.1.1 of this Law, pensions or parts thereof are reviewed twice a year, the review of pensions shall be carried out by 31 May 2022 and 1 October 2022. The average level of consumer prices in Latvia increased by 7.5 percent in November 2021 compared to November 2020, according to data from the Central Statistical Administration in January. Banking economists have already predicted that consumer prices will continue to rise in December, reaching inflationary peaks in early 2022. Consequently, price increases will continue in 2022 and the purchasing power of pensioners will only decrease. Impact of different consumer groups on the overall index of consumer prices. In the group of food and non-alcoholic drinks, prices increased by 5.6 percent per year. The most significant impact on the average price increase in the group was on fresh vegetables - 11.1 per cent, potatoes - 50.2 per cent. Cheese, curd, and other dairy products were more precious. The average price level for home-related goods and services has increased by 15 per cent. The main price increase was for heat, electricity and natural gas. In the healthcare group, prices increased by three percent. The price of transport-related goods and services increased by 18.7 per cent per year; this was determined by an increase in fuel prices by 39.1 per cent, an increase of 41.2 per cent for diesel, 35.5 per cent for petrol and 44.6 per cent for road gas. In view of the above, this draft law provides for additional indexation by 31 May 2022. This would improve the purchasing power of pensioners and the ability to pay public bills. For pensioners, this indexation is scheduled for June 2022 with this draft law... by 31 May of this year, there will be aid for the payment of unpaid public service bills that will be stored during the heating season. The 4 × 20 euros benefit currently provided by the state to pensioners will not cover the rapid increase in the fee for utilities, as well as the price increase for food, which is the first-needed goods. This support for pensioners and persons with disabilities during the Covid–19 crisis (the crisis is further exacerbated by high inflation, which is currently observed in Latvia and will be even more visible throughout 2022) will promote pensioners' confidence in the country and provide protection for people with disabilities. Our country's pensioners have dedicated all their active working lives to the creation of our country's prosperity and material values.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U7	Thank you, time. Thank you, Mr. Krishan. ‘ Evita Zālīte–Grosa, Member, has applied to speak against’. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U8	Good morning, dear colleagues! I would like to make a few comments on this draft law. In accordance with the draft law to review pensions in April this year, inflation in the period from 1 August 2021 to 31 January 2022 should be equal to or higher than five percentage points. I would like to point out that, according to data from the Central Statistical Administration, during this period inflation amounts to four per cent, i.e. these amendments to the law... and the draft law would not cover the inflation of the 2022 pensions. Secondly, yes, indeed, the rise in energy resource prices in Latvia is a major challenge at present, in this heating period, both for energy traders and their consumers. That is why a number of support measures have been introduced for the population, including for pension beneficiaries, in a context of price increases. And, thirdly, what is very important - I also read it in the bill - when indexing pensions twice a year, it must be taken into account that this will have a negative impact on fiscal space and will require substantial additional resources both in the special budget and in the general budget of the State. To conclude, I would just like to mention that work is currently under way in the Ministry of Welfare to allow this year's pensions to be indexed more quickly. I therefore call for this draft law to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U9	Thank you. One Member has spoken for, one against. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Pensions” to the Commission on Social Affairs and Labour by Klementyeva, Orlova, Urbanovich, Krišāns and Agešin, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! For - 32, for - 46, for - 2. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that the Saeima Presidium has received the National Association “All for Latvia!” - a request from the Group on Homeland and Freedom/LNNK concerning an amendment to the agenda. The application states: “Please make changes to the agenda of the Saeima sitting and exclude from it the draft law “Amendments to the Immigration Law” at first reading”. Do Members have objections? So Members have reservations. Please call me! We will vote for the National Association “All for Latvia!” - To exclude from the agenda the application of the first-reading draft ‘Amendments to the Law on Immigration’ from the proposal of the Group of the Group of the European Communities for the land and Freedom/LNNK! Please, let's vote! For - 60, for - 14, for - 1. The order of business has been amended, this draft law has been removed from the order of business. We will continue to see the agenda - referral of draft laws to commissions and first reading. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law on “Amendments to the Road Transport Act” presented by the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. For a first reading, see the draft law. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Sandis Riekstins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U10	Hello, colleagues! The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has drafted draft law “Amendments to the Road Transport Act” (No. 1353/Lp13) and decided to direct it to the sitting of the Saeima at first reading. The aim of the draft law is to ensure compliance of national regulation with the regulatory framework of the European Union, to prevent the provision of illegal taxi services in the territory of Riga International Airport, as well as to clarify certain legal norms according to current situation. The Commission has supported the draft law. Given that the deadline for compliance of national regulations with the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council has already expired, I call on the Commission to recognise the draft law as urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U11	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Road Transport” as urgent! Please, let's vote! For - 76, for - 1, for - 2. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U12	On behalf of the Commission, I call on the draft law to be supported at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U13	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Road Transport". Please, let's vote! For - 84, for - no, for - 1. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U14	Time limit for the submission of proposals - 3 March this year, consideration - sitting of the Saeima on 10 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U15	Thank you. So the deadline for proposals - this year's... March 10th. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes to refer the draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management” to the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, which states that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. For a first reading, see the draft law. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Mārtiņš Steins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U16	Good morning, Madam President. Good morning, colleagues! Good morning, the audience and the audience! I also wish Ukraine and its supporters strength and strength in the fight against Russian aggression. Let peace prevail! The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption has examined and supported the draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 Law on the Management of communicable Diseases”. The amendment provides for the addition of the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection by Article 37.5 in the following wording: “State movable property - vaccines against Covid-19 infection - may be sold to foreign governments without applying the law on disposal of public property. A decision on the sale of vaccines against Covid-19 infections shall be taken by the Cabinet of Ministers on a case-by-case basis. The proceeds of the sale of the vaccine against Covid-19 infections shall be included in the revenue of the national general budget.’ Why the law? The State of Latvia acquires vaccines against Covid–19 infection based on decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers. The Ministry of Health shall regularly submit information reports in the Cabinet about the country's existing vaccine against Covid-19 portfolio, informing about the stocks and uses of vaccines, the future plans for the supply of vaccines, as well as about the vaccination coverage of the population and the necessary quantities of vaccines to ensure vaccination of the population of Latvia. In order to manage effectively national stocks of vaccines, stock inventories of vaccines are regularly inventoryd and the shelf-life of the vaccines is observed. The Ministry of Health, in cooperation with the National Health Service and the Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, when assessing the stocks of vaccines in the country and their period of validity, as well as the expected scope of vaccination in order to ensure an effective process of management of stocks of vaccines, must submit proposals to the Cabinet of Ministers to take a decision on the issue of the disposal of vaccines in order to avoid the situation that existing vaccines in the country expire, but there are countries where vaccines are needed at that time. Thus, in solidarity with other countries in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs regularly engages in negotiations with other countries on the issue of vaccine seizures. For the purposes of efficient management of state funds, the Ministry of Health shall propose to the Cabinet of Ministers as a priority the possibility to sell vaccines, but if there are no sales partners, then donate them to the countries which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs offers as recipient countries. The change in regulation needs to sort out the processes of donation and disposal of vaccine against Covid-19, as well as - The Ministry of Health points out - it is mainly intended to dispose of those doses of vaccine that are at risk of remaining unused. In view of the above, the Commission decided to declare the draft law urgent and also asks the Saeima to recognise the urgency of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U17	Please call me! Vote on the draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 Law on the Management of communicable Diseases” (No. 1355/Lp13) recognition as urgent! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U18	On behalf of the Commission, I ask the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U19	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 Law on communicable Management”! Please, let's vote! For - 72, for - 1, for - 1, for - 1. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U20	On the basis of the parliamentary roll of order, if the Saeima does not object, the committee shall request that the deadline for the submission of proposals be not fixed and shall also request the examination of the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U21	Do Members have reservations that the draft law is being examined in the second, final reading at this sitting? Please log in. There is no objection by Members. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management” in the second, final, reading! Please, let's vote! For - 75, for - 1, for - 1. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, We will consider the draft law “Amendments to the Road Transport Law” at the meeting on 10 March and the deadline for proposals – 3 March. Consequently, the deadline for proposals - 3 March and for consideration by the Saeima - 10 March. The Bureau's reports on own-initiative proposals are on the agenda. Members Ramona Petraviča, Jūlija Stepanenko, Lubova Švecova, Maris Možvillo, Ieva Krapāne, Kaspars Girgens, Ralfs Nemiro, Inguna Riena, Karina Sprūde, Eriks Pucens and Aldis Gobzems have submitted a draft decision “On task for the Cabinet of Ministers to stop using Covid-19 certificates in the Republic of Latvia”. Does one of the Members object to the fact that we are examining this own-initiative proposal at this sitting? Please log in. So Members have reservations. Are Members opposed to including this draft decision in the next sitting of the Saeima? inclusion in the next Saeima sitting? Ms Ramona Petraviča has applied to speak. Please, you have a name.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U22	Dear President, Dear colleagues, The persistent delay of the government due to its indecision puts entrepreneurs and unvaccinated parts of society in an absurd situation in which they need to adapt to illogical and discriminatory restrictions. I have already illustrated the fundamental problems in my previous speeches in the plan to combat the Covid-19 pandemic government, but this did not convince my colleagues, so let me illustrate three more. First. On 21 February Slovenia abolished most of the Covid-19 restrictions, including the use of certificates. As of 1 April, the United Kingdom will remove absolutely all restrictions, as well as Covid-19 patients will no longer have to leave because of the fact that the disease is in the absolute majority of cases mild and does not protect themselves from vaccination. Similar decisions have been taken in Denmark, Norway, Lithuania and - from 1 March - even in Austria. Despite the examples of our own and those of other countries, the government is unduly misleading people to carry out a booster vaccination and wants to continue with a science-based approach. Secondly. At present, it is prohibited for unvaccinated workers to be employed as farm workers, carers or even seeders. This will probably not change after 1 March, as all these works will have to be done on the spot, where there are contacts with others, although most likely less than at home. I don't know what... in the sense of colleagues... was there a need for a certificate, e.g. by keeping cows or bypassing land, if none of the grounds for vaccination is fulfilled in such cases? In such cases, it is merely a form of discrimination. And thirdly. Because of the completely unnecessary complexity of policy, businesses, art and entertainment tourism or even the beauty industry will have to work with a capacity of no more than 40 per cent after the restrictions have been eased. The tourism and entertainment sectors cannot recover in days, weeks or months. Pre-clear conditions are needed to prepare, send clear signals to foreign tourists that they can travel to us. Otherwise, for a large part of tourists Latvia will also seem unavailable. It is naive to consider that decisions taken by other countries to withdraw certificates are not scientific or justified. Let me give you two reasons that have been used in other countries. Firstly, the limitations on the rights created by certificates no longer outweigh the benefits for public security. The most common option of Covid-19 - omicrons - is easy to transfer but less dangerous to health. And in addition, vaccination against the disease does not protect it. The presence of other reliefs for vaccinees creates a sense of safety in order to ignore the remaining epidemiological safety measures and puts vaccinees at the same level of risk as unvaccinated ones. Therefore, leaving restrictions on only one of the groups is discriminatory and sends a clear message from the government that these people are not needed by Latvia. Secondly, they do not outweigh the negative impact on the economy. I have already mentioned that the Latvian economy loses five to six million euros each week due to certificate restrictions. And not just the certificate. The depletion of the flag of a neighbouring country has also had an impact on the economy. There is no reason to believe that these losses will fall sharply as economic activity, allowing unvaccinated people only to work remotely, will not increase sufficiently. Governments... the system of certificates surrounds the operators and the least secured. All of the problems mentioned in this and in the previous speeches can only be solved by the immediate withdrawal of vaccination certificates. And the government must be responsible for the statements - "based on science" or "fast - hard, fast - open". Therefore, please support the proposal to withdraw the certificates immediately and without delay before 1 March or 1 April. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U23	Please call me! We will vote for the examination of the draft decision “On task for the Cabinet of Ministers to terminate Covid-19 certificates in the Republic of Latvia” submitted by Member Petravičas, Stepanenko, Švekova, Možvillo, Krapāne, Girgena, Nemiro, Ribena, Sprūde, Pucens and Gobzem on the agenda of the Saeima’s next sitting! Please, let's vote! On - 37, against - 48, refraining from - 2. Consequently, this draft decision is not to be considered at the next sitting. Do Members have proposals to hand over this draft decision to one of the commissions? The name of Member Ramona Petraviča. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U24	I ask for it to be passed on to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U25	Thank you. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of transferring this draft decision to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission! Please, let's vote! For - 35, for - 47, for - 2. The own-initiative proposal submitted by Members has been rejected. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Political Organisations (Parties), second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Mr Aleksandr Kirštein. Please! ( Pause) Mr. Kirstein, we don't hear or see you. ( Pause) Can the Head of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission replace this rapporteur?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U26	Yeah. In general, colleagues, there have been... Good morning, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Political Organisations (Parties), second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. A total of 24 proposals have been received. And examined by the commission. Draft law supported. 1. - a proposal from our colleague, Maris Možvillo. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U27	Thank you. Let's start a debate. The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U28	Good morning, chair of the sitting! Good morning, colleagues! Good morning, listeners and followers! I also express my condolences to the Ukrainian people that our neighbours... The leaders of neighbouring countries - Russia and Belarus - have decided to start a war in Europe. This is unacceptable in the 21st century. Returning to this bill 1. - my proposal... we face different situations with public authorities on a daily basis. In this particular case, my proposal relates directly to the ability of public authorities to perform their functions, the ability to be professionals. I believe that, at this point in time, this funding has created confidence that KNAB is unable to fulfil its duties because there are no appropriate specialists on the lines of KNAB. I have been convinced of this many times; my party was convinced of it; others who are coming into contact with KNAB have also made sure of it. I have nothing against these people who are currently working for KNAB, but I have a reasonable suspicion that these people are not working in the right position, because the accusations that come from this institution are unfounded and are now causing very negative consequences in the environment of political parties. It is unacceptable that an institution under the Prime Minister can actually decide fate for political parties with hundreds of members who are currently on the political stage and want to do something for their country. The funding of political organisations at this point is limited from two sides: one from the unprofessionality of institutions, and the other from the strict norms of the law, which does not allow to attract funding for parties either from other sides or from the state. I call on colleagues to consider whether it would be appropriate, however, to choose that such money... and the fate of political parties to be entrusted to an organization which has a much greater understanding, which has a much greater sense of accounting, money circulation and common processes in the country. I call for support for my proposal that the funding of political organisations should be entrusted to the State Audit Office. I have verified that the State Audit Office has now grown very much and has become very professional. Colleagues! I call for my proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U29	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mr Bondar!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U30	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that Mr Kirštein has just called me and said that he is back in line so that Mr Kirštein will be able to do so from proposal 2... but proposal 1 has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U31	Thank you, Mr Bondar. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - The proposal by Member Maris Mozhville! Please, let's vote! It's not about 17, it's against 50, it's not. The proposal is not supported. Please, Mr Kirštein, proposal 2.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U32	Hello, colleagues! 2. - Member Mozhville's proposal. It is planned to replace the words “Office for Prevention and Combating Corruption” with the words “State Audit Office”. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U33	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U34	3. - a proposal from Member Petravičs. That's important. The proposal is to change words... “EUR 4.50” with “EUR 2,00”.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U35	Thank you. Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U36	Good morning, colleagues! I believe that in the current situation, which is very economically complex and involves a very rapid rise in prices for society, budgetary and taxpayers' money could be used much more efficiently. I do not believe that in the current situation of public confidence in politicians... It is necessary to maintain an increased rate for the payment of political parties. It is right to remember the purpose of the law on the financing of political organisations (parties). And, unfortunately, the law on the financing of political organisations (parties)... It should be noted that according to the presentation presented by the experts, when deciding on the adoption of the Law on Lobbyism or the Law on Representation... shows that a very large proportion of society does not trust politicians and underestimates their quality, how politicians work and how the programme is implemented. I believe that my colleague, Ramona Petraviča,'s proposal is justified, appropriate to the economic situation and is welcome. I will support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U37	The name of Member Ramona Petraviča. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U38	The amount of funding for parties is not even justified in any calculation; it is merely political agreement. The parties, in my view, are being refinanced, and it is not even clear to anyone what and how the funds are spent. Moreover, it is absolutely unacceptable to decide whether to raise party funding to the minimum wage, because it is clear that the minimum wage will probably increase from next year. And it will rise rapidly, given the agreement between the Member States of the European Union on an adequate minimum wage. According to the Ministry of Welfare, it could increase up to EUR 600-650, and this will significantly increase party funding. Minimum pension for 10 years - more! - has not been reviewed. Despite the rise in the minimum wage and household income, the minimum pension was not introduced. This is an absolutely vile step - knowing that the minimum wage will rise, try to increase the funding for the parties in this way. That is why my proposal is absolutely the opposite. This provides for a slightly more than half of the funding to be cut for the parties. Please support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U39	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U40	There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U41	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - The proposal of Member Ramon Petravič! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U42	4. - Member Zarin's proposal. This concerns the distribution of the budget, the allocation of the money for the seat of the Member concerned. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U43	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U44	Good afternoon, everybody! Unless this is the place this morning. My proposal is as follows. Using the possibility that the law on the financing of political organisations (parties) is open, I call for the creation of a mechanism that will make the funding of parties dependent on the level of public welfare, i.e. if the level of public prosperity is rising, party funding is growing. If the level of public prosperity falls, the level of funding for the parties responsible for what is happening in the country should also fall. That is why I propose linking the funding of these parties to the average pay in the country after tax, namely that if the public earns more money if people have more money, the parties will also be eligible for more funding. If the parties are unable to provide this, if the welfare of society falls, the funding will also fall for the parties. The most visible parameter in this regard is the average post-tax pay. Why after tax? Because it would be another additional financial motivation for the political parties to finally solve this absurd tax situation, as is the case in our country, that the biggest tax burden is precisely on the workers' shoulders. Labour taxes must be reduced. Perhaps this could be one additional motivation for their political parties to finally do so. I call for my proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U45	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U46	The President of the sitting is very respectful. Dear colleagues, Sorry to say “good morning” something does not rise today, this rather terrible day, especially on the background of all these events and taking into account what was the original purpose of the authors of this bill. However, the original aim was to reduce public funding for the broken parties. I have a real and huge surprise, colleagues, that some of us use it to try to get even more funding for political parties. Both this proposal and the proposal to raise public funding for political parties to the minimum wage, which is, in general, cynical, are nothing more than an attempt to ensure that political parties automatically raise funding almost every year. I do not know what happened to you, my fellow Members, if you put forward such proposals, actually completely distorting the original purpose of this draft law. I would even say that it is somehow disrespectful to the author of this bill, which is still the President of Latvia. That is why I would withdraw both this proposal and the next one instead of you, my fellow Members. I call for a 'no' vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U47	The name to Member Ralph Nemir. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U48	Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting! Well, in principle good intentions, the road is paved to hell. Here you can see it brightly. The next proposal is indeed, as previous colleagues have already said, about attracting money to the minimum wage. If we look at the minimum wage in the European Union as a whole, then, of course, we have one of the lowest minimum wage levels. This means that it will grow at the same time. In fact, the President's initiative to punish some long-standing broken party and reduced political group... It is, of course, only an objective cover to start talking about such a subject and perhaps not even to arrange this matter in legislative terms, but simply to raise... additional revenue for individual lots. However, it is very important to talk about a completely different principle. This draft law absolutely does not solve the most important issue, and that is the issue of party independence. This bill is linked to the parliamentary elections. Dear colleagues, for example, in the European Parliament, we have a Member, Tatjana Ždanoka. Continuously, on her side, I think that the anti-state statements that are not in line with our national security interests are not in line with our common interests, but no one prevents her from distributing such statements and then getting the appropriate funding for the party from which she is moving. The draft law is linked only to one electoral cycle, that is, to the Saeima elections, not to the municipal elections, nor to the European Parliament elections, where our representatives represent Latvia outside our borders, where it would be very important for Members to represent our national interests. This is practically not happening. This draft law does not completely address the issues that should be dealt with by the parties as a whole. Similarly, the issue of party funding must often be closely linked to the actual operational activities of the party, the administrative maintenance of the party, perhaps even the extension with the aim of informing as many different voters as possible, not only the voters of this party, but the voters of any party, with the opportunity to get acquainted with both those people who represent the party and those ideas that will be represented in the various electoral cycles. This draft law is, by its very nature, a poor proposal to tackle this problem. There is only a link with the group, and the group, as we know, is the place where Members gather. Members shall not be obliged to form a political group, they may be formed, they may not be formed, they may be formed in part. And linking this with the party's activities and election results only in the Saeima is totally unfounded. If we look at the proposal in question, and I'm a little bit... I have spoken more broadly, but the specific proposal of Members proposes to raise the level of charges in relation to the level of welfare, which is very correct. So: prosperity is growing - you can talk about some more size, prosperity is falling - we are talking about smaller size. On the other hand, the next proposal, of course, already talks specifically about the extent of the minimum wage. And we already know that it will have to be built in the same way, because we are still very poor on the common background of Europe. So, I think, this proposal is, of course, rational, but also... I do not believe that this should be supported, because in any case this amount should remain unchanged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U49	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U50	Hello, hello, Latvian society! Hello, my colleagues! I have a request. The request is this: to stop discussing the trialogues related to party financing. A war has begun in Europe. I call for a review of the Saeima's agenda. Review all issues related to public funding. Review the entire agenda not only in this Saeima sitting, but in the country as a whole. This is not the time to simply talk about what we are discussing and arguing about on a daily basis. This war can come or, unfortunately, we can also be directly affected tomorrow. I ask my parliamentary colleagues and the whole society today to understand and put aside our everyday political disputes, to stop being a position and an opposition, to stop talking about a minor, to stop being a Chamberlenes. Decisions must be taken now, today, for our children, for our own sake. At the moment, we look comically at the war on Twitter, but in the Saeima we decide what is not important. I ask you to stop this sitting and the Saeima Bureau - to review the agenda today, to talk about what every Latvian citizen is worried about - every Latvian citizen! - with or without citizenship. I would ask you to end the dispute between us in our society, because the only thing that will help us at this time is that if we are able to unite, also those who seem to be here, inside our country, on a day-to-day basis, or really, have been enemies, against an external enemy. And against external threats, we will only be able to stand by if we break the disputes between ourselves about the minor. From today, this morning! - everything has changed in Latvia and the world. Please listen once every four years to what I say, because I say this as a man who loves his country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U51	Dear colleagues, We're going to make a announcement from the Saeima at 11:00. We do not do it individually; we do it collectively. We are finalising the debate and we are working on it, because these issues are also decided by our executive. The Saeima will make its statement at 11 a.m. in a special meeting. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U52	Yeah, well, I'm here... I would like to point out: if someone wants to come out of the agenda with statements, there is a roll of agendas for the Saeima, which determines how it can be done. On the other hand, I would call on the chairman of the sitting to chair the sitting and to keep an eye on the agenda, because otherwise we will turn this sitting into a show of confidence, where everyone will try to say something on the current background. If we return to my proposal, I would like to point out that the debate was more than my own. In particular, my proposal is not to attach the funding of parties to the minimum wage, which is politically identifiable. My proposal is to "link" party financing with the average post-tax pay in the country. So, the more society receives, the more political parties are entitled to receive. If public welfare falls, this average level of pay falls, because lots also receive less. It's a direct motivation for the parties to think about what they're doing and feel for their own... your wallet of your decision, the results of your actions. I think that this is a very logical and well-founded proposal and I would call for its support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U53	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mr. Kirstein... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U54	The Commission has not supported Member Zarina's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U55	Thank you. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - Member Ivars Zarins's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U56	5. - Members of the Puce, Jušas and Dzintara. It is intended to change certain figures with a percentage attachment to the minimum wage set by the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U57	Thank you. Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U58	Colleagues! I believe that this proposal is cynical - particularly in a cynical context with the fact that literally a few minutes in advance, both the New Conservative Group and Development/Par! and the National Association did not support the possibility of indexing pensions for pensioners. If we do not index the salaries of the educators, and if we do not say so, the inflation is rising at the same rate as we can now and will still be observed, and if we do not say... and unsupported materials... including by indexing medical fees, and if we do not provide sufficient serious instruments to save the economy from the rapid increase in prices that will continue, then attracting political parties' funding at the minimum monthly salary, which is also likely to grow rapidly enough, is simply immoral, unethical and personally unacceptable. I will vote both against this proposal and against the other proposals which, on the part of the coalition politicians, show cynicism, ignoring, neglecting the interests of voters and the people of Latvia, and I ask my fellow Members to vote in the same way. I believe that the EUR 4 million funding already available for political parties every year represents a sufficiently heavy burden and burden for Latvian taxpayers. And it should not be allowed to continue and to continue in the context of attracting minimum wages. We are responsible in that case before the voters and we start to step up our investment and index... of which - salaries for doctors, educators, pre-school educators who receive the relevant minimum wage at the level of the European Union... preschool educators... and the other categories of population most affected by the current economic and geopolitical situation. I call on colleagues not to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U59	Name of Member Evia Papulei. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U60	Madam President, Colleagues and colleagues! Of course, at this point in time, I also have my solidarity with the Ukrainian people, and I call in particular on the coalition and also the applicants for this proposal to really withdraw this proposal if it is not linked to the fact that similar proposals will come on the next Saeima's agenda and will be applied not to political parties, but to medical and teacher salaries and educators' salaries. In solidarity with the Ukrainian people, we can continue our daily work, but our decisions can benefit our people. It will also promote our common solidarity and understanding of what is happening now and also about what is happening in the hearts and minds of Latvian people. We must all be aware that teachers and medical practitioners have also been in the society's position those who have been excellently loyal coalition policy... In the situation of the community as well as now... looking at the prevention of the effects of the community. It would therefore only be politically professional to withdraw such a proposal, because it would show you, as coalition politicians, at least an understanding of the situation... and - what it really means to show solidarity with the people. I call for this proposal to be withdrawn. And this can also be done by voting against. And then, really, put forward proposals that would support two sectors... Like those who have carried the heaviest... Cod limits. Also looking at the prevention of the effects of the community and, of course, at the overall context. So such proposals, coalition... because then it would also guarantee your vote in favour... I would like to call for the medical fees and for the teachers' salaries. And that's been the experience. And, most likely, such a solution would be the biggest guarantee of trust for you as a coalition at this moment in making decisions, looking at our people and solidarity with the people of Latvia. I agree with the fact that, in this case, this proposal will be supported by all Members, as it is an indicator of political maturity. I call for this not to be supported if you cannot be withdrawn and for proposals to be put forward in future sittings that will not only support the people who are currently working and who depend on how much we can show solidarity... of which - in Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U61	The name to Member Ralph Nemir. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U62	Thank you, colleagues, first of all, that you did not support the previous proposal, where Member Zarins, representing the most fully funded political party... Currently in the Saeima, wanted to be even more generously funded. In my opinion, there is a completely unfounded plea or reference to a Member's statement; this can be done by the Speaker of the Saeima sitting. And, in my opinion, the chair of the Saeima sitting is sufficiently impartial to chair this sitting, because the concerns of Members about what has happened today are sufficiently justified to speak a little more broadly. Returning to this specific proposal. Undoubtedly once again: what kind of link does party funding have to do with just one and a specific electoral cycle? I call first of all for this proposal not to be supported either. I don't think the Members who have tabled this, who decide now and call for funding for their own organisations... The same will of course not be done. But I call on my colleagues not to support this proposal. There is obviously a legally very simple aspect, which is directly and solely related to the minimum wage set by the Cabinet of Ministers, it is clear that in the future it will rise... whether or not taking into account what inflation is currently in. Obviously, the minimum wage will also be raised. The current minimum wage has long been too low, which we understand very well. Consequently, this proposal... and, to be honest, the reading of this bill is now immoral. I call for no support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U63	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mr. Kirstein... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U64	The Commission has supported the proposal 5.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U65	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - The proposal from Members Juris Pouce, Juris Jušas and Raivis Dzintars! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U66	6. - a proposal from Members Pouce, Jušas and Dzintara. It is going to replace those parties that have exceeded the existing five per cent... In addition, 100,000... with 200 minimum monthly salaries set by the Cabinet of Ministers. Proposal 6 has been partly supported and incorporated 7. - the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission proposal, slightly improving grammar.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U67	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - A proposal from Members Pouce, Jusha and Dzintara! Please, let's vote! For -6, for -38, for -18, for -18. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U68	Proposal No 7. The Commission has supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U69	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U70	8 / 8 - Member Zarin's proposal. It is proposed to exclude the sixth paragraph of Article 7.1. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U71	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U72	So what is the nature of the proposal? I call on my colleagues to support this proposal and to explain why. This is very important, as these amendments are necessary to prevent the risks of constituencies arising from the existing law. In particular, the Constitution makes it very clear that the Saeima is elected in equal, proportional elections. This means that every vote of a voter for every political power has the same weight. On the other hand, the law on the financing of political organisations (parties) has suddenly provided for a different order of things, namely that for parties it may be that this weight is different, that one voter's vote for one party may be more important, more valuable than another political power. It is implemented with this condition that is currently imposed - that regardless of how much about you... will have wished for a particular political force, this political power is not entitled to receive more than 800 000. I mean, that's... on the one hand, it is a violation of the principles of the Constitution when this principle of equality, if we look at the funding of the party that is intended for the party's operation, so that the party can represent its voters... then it is violated. That's what it's... is not equal. And the other is that this discriminates against those political forces that have greater political support in society. And contrary to what Mr. Nemir said... With “Conciliation” is quite the opposite – “Conciliation” voter is currently the... under this law... whose voice is rated... less valuable... than, let us say, someone who has voted in favour of another political force. And that is an obvious risk of conspiracy, and I would call for it to be avoided, so as not to give an opportunity to a political force that in this way... sees that this discrimination is being carried out, rightly challenged... and would obtain this funding in a different way. I call on us to support this proposal so that we have everything legally and truly democraticly and in accordance with the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U73	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U74	Proposal No 8 has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U75	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - Member Zarin's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U76	9. - a proposal from Members Pouce, Jušas and Dzintara. It is intended to replace the existing 800 thousand - as the maximum funding - with 1600 minimum monthly salaries set by the Cabinet of Ministers. The Commission has supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U77	Thank you. The name to Member Ralph Nemir. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U78	Thank you, honourable leader of the Saeima sitting. Well, so that we can vote more competently and debate this proposal... I think it would be very promising to have the Prime Minister or at least the Minister of Finance present in our debate, who would then outline the government's plans for the future of a minimum monthly salary. And then if we look now that... The law had set a maximum amount that could be financed for the party, which was 800 thousand, but now we are already seeing the number “1600”... minimum monthly salaries... which, of course, currently accounts for the same 800 thousand. But if we look to the future, then... the minimum monthly salary is linked to very many different characteristics and can therefore be changed in another context that... at the same time, to travel the minimum monthly salary, will also create party financial opportunities... and huge amounts. So today, when we look at the participants, we do not see either the Minister of Finance or the Prime Minister who could outline these plans to us. In my opinion, this proposal is therefore unacceptable, as it provides for a very wide-ranging approach in the future and a huge opportunity for parties to become one of the richest parts of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U79	The name of Member Ramona Petraviča. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U80	As I have already mentioned, it is quite certain that the minimum wage will rise. And if we assume it could rise to EUR 600 next year due to an adequate minimum wage agreement between the Member States of the European Union, then party funding will increase to EUR 960 thousand instead of the previous 800 thousand. Consequently, if the minimum wage is more than EUR 600, then even more. So this law is noticed... put everything in place to ensure that parties provide themselves with much more funding from next year. And, of course, this money should be used for other, more noble, purposes, even if parents of seriously ill children do not have to ask for donations, then it's a million... or more than one million that will be directed to parties next year could be directed to save a child’s life. It is really very low and rude: in this way, use this moment when the President has opened the law to put in here all the benefits that can be read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U81	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mr. Kirstein... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U82	The Commission has debated this, and this is not... I just want to remind you that this is not a minimum payment, but the maximum can be less. The Commission has supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U83	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - A proposal from Members Pouce, Jusha and Dzintara! Please, let's vote! For - 55, for - 19, refrains - not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U84	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Zarin's proposal. Provides for budget funding to link the political organisation... according to the average value of the measurement of the public support. The Commission has not supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U85	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U86	In my opinion, this is a very important proposal that could save this President-driven bill, which... Unfortunately, this draft law has nothing to do with how it is presented publicly. In particular, this draft law has been aimed at bringing the party's responsibility before its voters... to strengthen the party's responsibility in front of voters. However, the mechanism proposed has nothing to do with the party's responsibility towards its voters. What's more: it's made... At the moment, what the President has proposed - it does not contribute to the responsibility of parties before their voters, but rather, on the contrary, promotes the formation and holding of party political cartels, ignoring the interests of voters. Namely, batch size... That is, the size of the political group does not in any way relate to whether the party or political power voted for, which has entered the Saeima, is fulfilling the promises made to its voters. As we can see, this case, which was specifically designed for this bill, shows exactly the opposite, namely the political party, which promised its voters a lot - how it will fight against the existing power, how it will change the order of things in the country... it entered Parliament and immediately betrayed its constituents, quite the opposite of the promised... with this power that had promised to fight and change everything... I simply got under it and thus preserved the unity of my group. But when this political power, however, decided to start fulfilling the promises given to voters, this group disintegrated, and according to this draft law proposed by the President of Latvia, it happens that in this case... when this political power began to fulfil the promises made to its constituents... it will be punished for it, it will not get any funding. This is an absurd order of things. I propose a logical order of things, that is to say, how really the responsibility of the political forces in front of the voters is "bound" to be determined by the funding of the political force depends on the support of the real public, that is, if you have pledged a lot before the elections, come into Parliament and do not do it, then logically, what we see is that the support for these political forces is falling considerably. That is what I am offering - we are looking at what political support is. If the political power fulfills its promises, the voter is pleased with it and he is ready to vote for it again. This means that this political power receives funding to the extent it really deserves - whether it fulfils its promises or does not. In order to prevent them from being such a fluctuating moment, my proposal, given that funding for political forces is being paid out... is determined on a semi-annual basis, is measured for this support throughout the half-year. That means, if there were some separate decision on which... the vote is earned or lost, which would not have a significant impact on the amount of this funding, as it would be measured over a half-yearly period. A half-year would be a sufficiently objective period to judge what the party is doing and to what extent it deserves the funding provided by Latvian society, the vote of each voter. I call for this proposal to be supported, because only in this way... This proposal will, by its very nature, be in line with what was promised to the Latvian public. Otherwise, it is simply an actual deception. This bill is not to make sure that parties are accountable to their voters, but that a political power cartel can be more conveniently manipulated by political forces in the Saeima, keep them together and pursue their interests contrary to the will and interests of voters. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U87	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mr. Kirstein... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U88	Public measurements, even averages, are, unfortunately, often different from the results obtained. The Commission has not supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U89	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - Member Zarin's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 16, for - 48, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U90	11. - Member Mozhville's proposal. Provision shall be made for the loss of a Member's mandate if he leaves the political organisation (party). There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U91	Let's start a debate. The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U92	Thank you for your word. Let me start by pointing out to a number of responsible political persons who allow false information to be disseminated that a party previously known as the KPV LV has failed. I can say with full conviction and with a sense of responsibility that the party has not broken down, that the party continues to operate, that the party represents its constituents, and that the party continues to fulfil the promises made to its voters. Currently, the name of the party is “On Humanity Latvia”, and nothing has changed since the name changed. Therefore, any claims that a party has broken down are lies and false information. Returning to this proposal. Yes, I am aware that this proposal cannot be placed within the scope of this law, but I wanted to express my position on this law, because rhetoric has been and was based on the fact that the political group, the political group of this party, has failed in the Saeima since the spring of last year. I would like to remind my fellow Members that the law provides for funding for parties and not for political groups, so there are unacceptable statements by responsible political figures that funding depends on the size of a political group or the presence of a political group in the Saeima. My colleagues have repeatedly reminded us that Members have the right to join political groups and are also entitled not to do so, so it is regrettable to look at statements by the President of Latvia, which are not based on legal facts. Returning to my proposal that when a Member leaves a party, he should be excluded from the composition of the Saeima. It is justified by the fact that we have experienced this situation - the party was very active, used the party's resources, brought together people, promised its constituents to do their work or other work. What do we see right now? People from the party have gone to the parties of the extreme opposite opinion, represent other organisations, represent other views and have forgotten about their voters. I and my party members regard these people as traitors, because they have actually transferred both party and their constituents. I understand that my proposal cannot be supported by this law, but I will certainly try to talk to my colleagues to correct this Member of the Saeima... walking and political irresponsibility, would change the parliamentary rule. Perhaps, at last, political responsibility will become visible. What do I mean? If a Member is responsible for his mandate for the proposals he has made, for the promises he has promised his constituents, then he will have to reflect on a number of occasions before changing his political affiliation, changing his political views and starting to wander.... works at the Saeima. I call on my fellow Members to listen in this case. I am aware that this law does not conform to the law within the meaning of this law. I call on my colleagues to vote as they see fit, but I would like to remind you once again that it is possible to finally turn political responsibility into a tangible result. In this case, it is a link between the action of a Member and his mandate and his presence in the party from which he has been elected to the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U93	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U94	The Commission did not support Member Možvillo's proposal, as Members who are not in any party may also be elected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U95	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. - Member Mozhville's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported. Ladies and gentlemen, we are on a break. See you at 11.05 a.m. Please come back at 11.05. Registration of the presence of Members. It's over. See you at 11.05 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U96	Dear colleagues, We are an example of a country maintaining a sense of peace, even though there is now a war in our friendly neighbourhood. I call on the Saeima to continue its work in a very practical and prudent manner. We shall continue to work on the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Financing of Political Organisations (Parties). Proposal No 12. On behalf of the Commission, Mr Alexander Kirštein. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U97	12. - Member Zarin's proposal. According to the Anti-Corruption Office, it reduces funding by one third if public support has fallen by more than one third. This is similar to the previous proposal of Member Zarina - to link the funding of the political organisation to the opinion of the public opinion on the importance of the party. The Commission has not supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U98	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U99	I propose a specific solution for how we could implement what was promised publicly to Latvian society by this draft law, namely how to make the parties responsible to the public with the funding of these parties, with the provision that the funding of the party will depend directly on the extent to which its voters trust it and are ready to support it. This mechanism, in the way it is offered, would make it possible, first of all, that the fluctuations in funding would not depend on some of the factors of the event, because it is measured... time period - half year... During the half-year period, these fluctuations are assessed to be sufficiently high. This means that we would also prevent possible variations in measurement. So when you make these measurements, there can also be inaccuracy... then such impreciseness would be missing, because we could do it in a bigger period of time... fluctuations that would not already be within the limits of error, but would be an obvious indication that the party is rightly losing its voter support and that such support - to the extent that it has been given - is not due to this party. I think it is a very logical and well-founded proposal. If it really wasn't the purpose of this bill to deceive society and make something for the ruling coalition... I call for this to be supported and for this principle to be introduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U100	I closed the debate. Because of the fact that we have not supported the 10th proposal, this proposal has been debated but not put to the vote. Please go on: Proposal 13.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U101	13. - Member Nemir's proposal. Linking funding to prosecution against one of the Members. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U102	Thank you. The floor in the debate for Member Ralph Nemir. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U103	Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting! The proposal does not concern this term. Please, colleagues, don't mind that it's... might be relevant to someone personally, but if we have talked about high reputation in many draft laws, let us say, benchmarks and that we should set an example for society, of course, party funding, especially when checks are being carried out, is suspected of some law enforcement authorities... It would also be very logical that, in such a case, the funding of the party to which the Member is referring would be suspended... that part of the Member. If 10 Members are elected, for example, and one has such a process, then one tenth is suspended. I would like to remind you once again that this bill is absolutely absurd, it is talking about the link between the political group and the party, between Members who have come together in a group and a legal entity, so let us continue to see it, of course... This proposal increases the threshold at a time when a Member may have been cheated or has not pointed out any circumstances in his candidate's questionnaire and the process has been initiated, so that funding would have been temporarily suspended and not fully deducted. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U104	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U105	The Commission did not support this proposal by referring to the presumption of innocence - pending the judgment... and our experience shows that these criminal charges often end with nothing. The Commission did not support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U106	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 13. - Member Ralph Nemir's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 2, for - 55, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U107	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Mr.'s proposal. Associated with a Member who does not participate in the sittings of the Saeima for a long time (at least one part-session) - he loses his mandate, and then there is a link to the funding. The Commission has not supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U108	Let's start a debate. The name to Member Ralph Nemir. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U109	Colleagues! This proposal relates to the direct responsibilities of the Member. If a Member is not present at meetings of the commission or at sittings of the Saeima, what is the point of such a Member at all? Such a Member shall neither express any attitude in voting nor make proposals, but shall in fact be in such free bread. There must therefore be instruments to exclude such Members from the composition of the Saeima. Can this be linked, among other things, to party funding? I believe that - yes, because the party always has the opportunity to discuss with such a Member, to organise him to attend the sittings of the Saeima, to be active, to express his attitude by voting and, above all, to use the mandate that society has given him. There is no point in a Member who does not do anything of what I have mentioned, so his presence in our ranks is absolutely unnecessary. Batches have the opportunity to discuss this in their own... inside, be active, promote a Member so that the Member is either active or appoints a Member's mandate. If this does not happen, of course, this pressure turns from the inside into an external one and this Member would be obliged to lose his mandate. The nature of this proposal is therefore the following. This is more connected with linking the mandate given by the people to the work of the Member through an instrument that is currently linked to the funding of the party. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U110	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, what will you comment on?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U111	The Commission has not supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U112	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 14. - Member Ralph Nemir's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 4, for - 59, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U113	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - also the motion from Member Nemir. If someone leaves the parliamentary group, he loses his mandate, the funding is changed accordingly. The Commission also did not support it, because there is nowhere... The Constitution does not provide that there must be a fraction or somewhere. Consequently, the Commission did not support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U114	Thank you. Let's start a debate. The name to Member Ralph Nemir. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U115	Thank you. In this case, part of it can be added to what the rapporteur said, it has been quite precise. No candidate shall be obliged to take part in elections from a party. We know that, in fact, any candidate for a Member can be a member of a party on the list, perhaps not at all, but there is one very important aspect on which many (especially those who have left the parties or, more importantly, those who have left the party and have gone into another party) have already forgotten about the promises, about those programme settings that these Members have previously had.... Members' candidates have tasted. When these Members enter the Saeima, of course, there are talks about building a government and who feels better in position than thinking in the long term... then, of course, we have this situation. This does not apply only to this term, but I think it has been in absolutely all the terms - in which more, less; but if we are talking about diversity of opinion, then these issues are to be discussed in political groups. There can be the same vote in political groups, there can also be different votes, but people still decide by their best consciousness, but if a voter is handed over, there must be some constant consequences for what happens. The question is not about Members who, at the time of election to the Saeima, do not form political groups, become non-attached Members, in this case it is more about moving from one party to another during one parliamentary term, thus fully transferring all of their previous principles and, in this case, completely leaving what has been said earlier. It actually reduces the voter's activity, because many people lose hope and confidence in the future when they see their fellow Members do so... a candidate of a Member who is aware that such action may also be repeated. Consequently, this proposal addresses this issue and addresses it directly in the context of a Member elected from a political organisation and forming part of a political group. And in the case of one of the Members... perform, then he must immediately set aside a mandate. This is a sufficiently motivational fact in the future... to refrain from doing so. It is not a question of how a person might have changed his views; it is a question of what attitude this person expresses when he sees the opportunity to become a member of the Saeima and receive a mandate from the public, as opposed to what he does when this mandate falls into his pocket. It is therefore an intertwined issue. I call for this proposal to be supported, because there must be some mechanism for this at least to be the case... decreased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U116	I closed the debate. Please comment on behalf of the Commission... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U117	The Commission has not supported proposal 15.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U118	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 15. - Member Ralph Nemir's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U119	16. - the proposal by Member Stepanenko and Member Svekov. On the fact that the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Anti-Corruption Bureau receives financial exploitation documents from political organizations once in a half year. So twice a year. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U120	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U121	Colleagues! 16 million over four years! Every year, four million political parties are maintained: offices, advertising, information campaigns, education. Every year, four million! During the Commission's discussion, there were criticisms, including from the cooperation partners of the political forces of the existing coalition, about the lack of transparency. I also heard problems... understand how financial support provided by taxpayers to political parties is being used, especially when political parties are associations. This indicates an opaque and possibly corrupt political environment. Unfortunately, there are no clear, loud and sufficiently understandable cases of corruption from the Anti-Corruption Bureau... findings in the political environment in Latvia, unlike Estonia, where such processes exist, despite the fact that the regulation of lobbying in Estonia does not exist... but processes exist, services work and political corruption is being combated. There is silence in Latvia. I am familiar with the report by the Anti-Corruption Office on the previous period. I'm sorry... I do not believe that the funding given to this institution really ensures that taxpayers' money is spent in a transparent and understandable way... in parallel with a wide range of communications in public spaces. Let's take the example of Development/About! Member of the party, Mr Mičerevska, reported possible cases of corruption. The reaction doesn't follow. Society's trust in politicians fell, public trust in the elite of power fell. I believe that a transparent and timely opportunity to report and inform the public about the use of financial resources is an instrument that could even partially, albeit to a minimum, restore confidence to policy makers. Colleagues, let us remember that four million paid annually by taxpayers for your maintenance, for your advertising campaigns, is money that others earn, but you're just spending! And spending has to be accounted for. And not once a year, but twice a year. That is why I am asking you to support my proposal and to ensure that the political forces account for the money they receive from the taxpayers, not once, but twice a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U122	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U123	The Commission did not support this proposal, because it only increases bureaucracy, it does not give a major boost.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U124	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 16. - the proposal tabled by Member Stepanenko and Member Svekova! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U125	17 as well. - the proposal by Member Stepanenko and Member Svekov. It provides for a report to be submitted once a year to the Anti-Corruption Office on the impact on the economy and the implementation of programmes by political organisations (parties). The Commission is not supported either.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U126	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U127	Colleagues! We will consider the amendments today - next sitting -... the dissemination of false news and the dissemination of fiction. In what context do I draw your attention? I draw attention to the fact that pre-election promises and programmes of political parties could also be interpreted as false news and the dissemination of false information to the public. In order to have a clear tool to compare lies or fiction distribution, it would only be right if a mechanism were envisaged... that the political forces that receive support from the taxpayer and use this funding for their advertising campaigns and office maintenance also account for what specific points in their programme they have fulfilled from their promises to voters and how this affects the economy. Latvia, unfortunately, is one of the last in terms of the welfare of the population - on the basis of purchasing power parity. We're in the last place on this list... in terms of indicators. We have a very large gap between the rich population, which is very small, and about 30, 32 to 35 per cent of the population living on the poverty line. Taking all this... In any case, Latvian politicians chose to finance and sharply increase funding for the political forces, claiming that this is the way to combat corruption. But after the funding, the scandal was followed by several potentially corrupt transactions and statements, which were discussed in society and led to negative attitudes in society, including against parliamentarians. Studies carried out by the agencies also show that 85 percent of the people surveyed believe that decisions taken in the Saeima and among politicians are made because of the representation of small groups. And in this way... It is the statistics that reflect the mood and attitudes towards policy-makers. Transparency in turn ensures that voters will express themselves differently and will also treat politicians and policy makers differently. We have very few citizens, very few voters participating in the elections, and this is clearly due to the fact that existing policy-makers are unable or unwilling to implement policies in line with the interests of their voters. The provision of a legislative report would be an instrument that would ensure transparency and thus allow voters to obtain objective information. That is why I am asking my colleagues to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U128	Thank you. I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U129	Proposal 17 is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U130	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 17. - the proposal by Member Stepanenko and Member Svekova! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U131	18. - the proposal by Member Stepanenko and Member Svekov. This provides for a quarterly reduction in funding in proportion to the number of Members who have been excluded from the political group or who have left. The Commission has not supported the proposal for the reason that it is not necessary for a Member to be a member of a political group.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U132	Thank you. Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U133	Yeah, thank you. The rapporteur made it very correct that the scope of this draft law... This is not, in fact, the right place to deal with the question of joining Members or not joining a political group and, consequently, the calculation of funding. But the President of Latvia by presenting this draft law... it was presented for this purpose. Let us call it simple: attempts are being made to legalise forced marriages with money so that Members do not leave the group. Our proposal also includes an opportunity and responsibility for the group leader... from the wild... and with a mask including... make the group's leadership think of a possible attitude towards both the promises and the programme made during the pre-election process and the declared real or fictitious reasons and objectives that are announced before the elections. I believe that this kind of instrument could also motivate the Group to be transparent, more open and more representative of its electoral interests and the Group leader's activities. I therefore ask my colleagues to support my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U134	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U135	The Commission has not supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U136	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 18. - the proposal by Member Stepanenko and Member Svekova! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U137	19. - Member Zarin's proposal. To a certain extent, this relates to the proposal that we rejected - to link funding to public opinion studies. In particular, in its 19th proposal, Mr Zarins suggests that the methodology for assessing public support should be developed within six months of KNAB's adoption. The Commission has not supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U138	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U139	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Mozhville's proposal. It is related to the transfer of KNAB functions to the State Audit Office. The Commission does not support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U140	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U141	The 21st proposal is also related to this by introducing appropriate amendments to the State Audit Office Law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U142	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U143	22. - the proposal by Member Možvillo to incorporate the corresponding amendments into the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U144	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U145	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Member Stepanenko and Member Svekov. It provides that the Cabinet of Ministers, inviting all Latvian political organizations to public consultation and consulting with the non-governmental sector, develops a new model for funding political parties. The Commission has not supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U146	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U147	Thank you. Colleagues! If we have already introduced and dramatically increased funding from the state budget to the political forces, then there must also be a feedback mechanism how taxpayers can tell with their own purse whether they agree that their money, as a taxpayer, is spent precisely on maintaining the relevant needs of this political power, advertising campaigns and management, offices... No dosage adjustment is necessary for either medicinal In particular, this proposal provides for a model - after consultation with the parties and organisations involved - to be drawn up within a certain period of time such that the taxpayer is entitled to decide which political power receives that part of the taxpayer's money intended to finance political parties. I believe that such an instrument could even restore voters' confidence in politics and policy-making, as well as definitely ensure the interest of political forces and political representatives, parties' representatives in listening to voters' needs, people's needs and implementing policies in a conscious manner, taking into account the interests of voters, not the political and economic interests brought about by the party... financial elites, interests of the interest group. I therefore ask my colleagues to support this proposal and to ensure that the policy on taxpayers' money becomes more transparent and also more responsible to the voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U148	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U149	This proposal, 23, was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U150	Please call me! We will vote in favour 23. - the motion of Members Stepanenko and Svekov! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U151	24. - the proposal by Members Stepanenko and Sveciova, which concerns transitional provisions and provides that any provisions increasing funding may be applied only to the parties taking part in the forthcoming elections. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U152	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U153	Yeah, 13. The Saeima granted additional financing to itself. For yourself! Very sharply, funding was increased at the taxpayer's expense. The purpose of this proposal is precisely to ensure that political corruption... at the same level... do not happen and, in the future, for funding, whether or not granted to the political forces... and would apply only to Members elected to the next Saeima. It happens that taxpayers before being elected 13. The Saeima was not aware that politicians would increase funding for themselves, but voters were promised that public administration would be reduced, bureaucratic barriers would be eased, pensions and income would be increased, security and prosperity would be ensured. Unfortunately, when we look at the current situation over this four-year period, we see that the situation has not improved and the increases in income that the population receives actually only cover the increase in inflation and the primary needs of the most vulnerable groups. Is there a reduction in public administration, and is something being done by politicians in this area? Oh, yes, right, the Privatisation Agency is renamed and now called Possessor - very modern. Could this change of name be called a reform of public administration? In my view, no. Is a reform of public administration, where it was defined loudly... and was announced the number of employees in public administration, has successfully realized? We received an opinion from the State Audit Office, which says that it is not. The public administration has not changed numerically, despite the fact that we invest millions in IT technology and digitalisation, despite the fact that we have reduced the population, the decrease in birth rates, the corresponding decrease in income for the most vulnerable and the increase in the number of people at risk of poverty. Does this affect politicians most directly? Yes, because politicians form their legislative framework, as well as their administrative framework, which determines how the business environment lives, how pensioners live, how young mothers live. Has anything changed - and has it changed dramatically - over these four years? I don't feel that. I see tension, I see the crickets between myself, I see broad statements about cases of political corruption, but I do not see the results of KNAB's activities in this area. Unfortunately, we are privatising ports, distributing European Union money, reporting us on smart reindustrialisation, but the standard of living, the quality of life, access to medical services, the level of well-being, the birth rate of children will not increase, and politicians are responsible for this all. All of this is the responsibility of the political elite and the coalition. Therefore, my fellow Members, I am asking for our proposal to be supported and I am voting to say 'for'. In general, however, I will vote against this draft law because it will not solve the political problems, it will not make the policy more transparent, transparent and it will not prevent political corruption at the highest level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U154	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U155	Dear President, Honourable Members! Since this law enters into force with the entry into force of 14. The meeting of the Saeima will practically be what the transitional provision is proposed here... 24. ... ‘Article 4a. And it is interesting that if the law came into force now, then the funding for the parties would be reduced, because the standards that have been incorporated correspond to a minimum wage of about 500 euros, which will only be in force in the second half of the year. Consequently, the principle that we do not decide on the funding of the political parties of existing Members is in line with this proposal, and therefore there is no need to vote on it. The Commission has not supported this situation.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U156	However, we will vote in favour. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 24. - the motion of Members Stepanenko and Svekov! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U157	Thank you all. I would also like to express my thanks to the public organisations involved in criticising or supporting this draft law. Within the Commission, the debate was very wide and, as I said, since this law will enter into force only in the next parliamentary term, Members will be able... if they do not like any methodology for how this funding is calculated, or if someone feels that this funding is too high, they will, of course, be able to accept amendments without which limits and consequently reduce these funds. I think no one will object to this. So I call for support in general.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U158	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second final reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Political Organisations (Parties). Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - Draft Law on Immigration (No. 1119/Lp13), third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Edwin Šnore. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U159	Hello, dear colleagues! See ‘Amendments to the Immigration Act’ (No. 1119/Lp13). No proposals have been received for the third reading. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U160	Thank you. Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Immigration" (No. 1119/Lp13) third, final, reading! Please, let's vote! For - 77, for - no, for - 1. The law is passed. Draft law “European Union Funds Management Act for the programming period 2021-2027”, first reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Ilze Indricksone. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U161	Hello, colleagues! The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission examined the draft law before the first reading. The draft law “European Union Funds Management Law 2021-2027” aims to establish the principles of general management of funds in the Republic of Latvia and to ensure effective, transparent and sound implementation of EU funds in line with the principles of financial management. The draft law provides for the maintenance of the current implementation scheme with the Central and Financial Contracts Agency as the sole liaison body. And the bill is designed... The regulatory framework has been taken from the 2014-2020 programming period but has made some improvements, mainly based on the experience of the institutions involved in the management of the Funds and generally aimed at making the submission and implementation of the Fund project even more convenient and supportive for the beneficiaries of the Funds. The Commission supported the draft law for the first reading. I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U162	Thank you. Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “European Union Funds Management Law for the programming period 2021-2027”! Please, let's vote! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U163	The deadline for submitting proposals is two weeks - until 10 March.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U164	Thank you. So the deadline for the proposals is 10 March this year. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Law on Taxation in Free Ports and Special Economic Zones’, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Jānis Cielēns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U165	Hello, honourable leader of the Saeima sitting! Dear colleagues, The budget and financial (tax) commission has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxation in Free Ports and Special Economic Zones” (No. 1336/Lp13) and prepared for the first reading. Amendments to the law are necessary for the implementation of Regulation No. The requirements of 2021/1237 concerning capital companies which, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, have become capital companies in difficulty. The amendments are also necessary to specify the percentage of direct tax deductions for large, medium and small capital companies from the accumulated amount of eligible costs, which is in line with regional development aid in the Republic of Latvia up to 2027. The provisions of Section 8 ‘Limitations for the application of direct tax reductions’ and Section 8.1 ‘Application of tax reductions for large investment projects’ of the current Act were in force until 31 December 2021. As the European Commission had to obtain from 31 December 2021 the harmonisation of the new regional aid map adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers, which is applicable from 1 January 2022 to 31 December 2027, the relevant amendments to the Law on the taxation of ports and special economic areas should also enter into force as soon as possible, so that the draft law can be seen as a matter of urgency so as not to result in an excessive interruption of the aid regime. On behalf of the Commission, I ask that the draft law be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U166	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Taxation in Free Ports and Special Economic Zones”! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U167	On behalf of the Commission, I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U168	Thank you. Members have not applied for a debate on this draft law. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxation in Free Ports and Special Economic Zones”! Please, let's vote! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U169	The deadline for submitting the proposals for second reading shall be 5 p.m. on 25 February this year, and the discussion of the draft law at second reading shall be held by the Saeima at its meeting on 3 March this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U170	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for proposals is 5 p.m. on 25 February this year and for consideration by the Saeima at its meeting on 3 March this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Juris Jurash. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U171	Hello, colleagues! In its meeting of 15 February 2022, the Legal Commission conceptually supported the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers (No. 1323/Lp13), which was developed in order to improve the criminal regulation regarding the procedure regarding application of force majeure measures to a legal person, establishing the type of procedural sanctions, as well as other necessary amendments to comply with the plan for implementation of the proposals included in the audit of the State Audit Office regarding necessary amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law. The Legal Commission heard representatives of the Permanent Criminal Procedure Law of the Ministry of Justice, as well as representatives of the Supreme Court, Public Prosecutor’s Office and the Ministry of the Interior, who recognised the draft law as necessary and acceptable. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U172	Thank you. Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law! Please, let's vote! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U173	The deadline for submitting proposals is 26 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U174	Thank you. So the deadline for proposals is 26 March this year. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on Administrative Penalty on Violations in the Field of Administration, Public Order and Use of State Language”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Jānis Iesalnieks. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U175	Colleagues! Nine proposals were received for second reading in this draft law. 1. - the proposal by the Minister for the Interior, Maria Golubeva. In the article that governs administrative responsibility for small hooliganism, the Minister wanted to clarify that this small hooliganism can be directed not just against the peace of persons but against the peace of one or more persons in order to express the thought of the norm more clearly. However, the Commission agreed to support proposal 2, which makes this clarification even more precise, by stating in proposal 2, that with tiny hooliganism... may interfere with ‘the peace of the person, of the institution, of the economic operator or of another institution’. To make it easier for the police to apply... and there are no different interpretations of the meaning of “peace of persons”. Consequently, proposal 1 was partly supported and included 2. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U176	Members agree with proposal 1.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U177	So two. - Commission proposal. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U178	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U179	3. - the proposal from the Minister for the Interior, Maria Golubeva. This very little hooliganism... wanted to form a third part of the procedure already through automated data-processing systems, i.e. the Internet. In the Commission, the proposal was not supported as the current version also comprehensively covers this disruption of peace, including various types of electronic systems. The system commission therefore considered that it was not necessary to allocate it specifically to the third part. The proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U180	Members have not applied for a vote in the debate, but have requested a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Golubev! Please, let's vote! For - 12, for - 41, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U181	4. - the proposal by the Minister for the Interior, Maria Golubeva. In another version, it was tried to make this first reading. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U182	Nor have Members applied for a debate on this proposal, but have they requested a vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Maria Golubeva! Please, let's vote! For -13, for -51, for -4. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U183	5. - The legal commission's proposal. The wording of the first reading of the draft law on aggressive behaviour towards a person is divided into two separate articles: one on threats and the other on persecution. This is one of the rare cases where such a proposal was not supported by the Commission for Criminal Law Policy because it was considered that this proposal did not set criteria and that it would therefore be too widely interpreted that people could, in fact, address any family dispute, for example, about unwanted persecution... which is contained in this article of persecution. However, the majority of the members of the panel considered that this article should be divided into two parts without qualitative criteria. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U184	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U185	Hello, colleagues! I would like to remind you that we are drawing up this draft law in order to protect the peace of the individual. We had three meetings before the second reading of the Commission on criminal justice policy when we discussed the proposals. The proposal of the Minister of Justice, on which we are actually talking, was not supported by the sub-committee. One person was “for”, all the others, as well as experts were “for”. The Legal Commission has improved and is now taking this proposal forward on its own behalf. I would like to inform you where there is a problem with this proposal. So at first reading, we supported a rule which includes responsibility for man's risks of harm, namely damage to health, property interests, sexual integrity if a person has reason to believe that a threat can be implemented. The proposal we are discussing now proposes that the criteria be waived and that this provision be substantially extended. It is no longer a threat to health, property interests, sexual integrity, but it is proposed to protect every legal interest. Maybe it sounds very good, but basically what does that mean? I can give you examples. Let's say one neighbor tells the other he'll change the keys in the ladder room, because the second time it's there, it's got something to do, it doesn't do the right thing. All that, the violation has been committed, because the threat of changing, say, the lock, the keys is already enough to be held accountable. Well, or, for example, a neighbor will tell the other: it's my place that I'll use for my car as a parking place, and that's all. Basically, nothing else is needed, since there is no need to threaten health or property interests; it is enough for a person to say that he will in some way restrict the rights of another person. Well, if you want, if you want, I can offer another example. If one fisherman tells the other that it is his place, he used to be fishing here and not allowing another to be fishing - administrative violation, liability, penalty up to 2000 euros. It is disproportionate, it is not right, it is not necessary. It is important to protect the right of everyone to live in peace, and if there is a threat of damage to health, to property interests, then there may also be a responsibility, but there must be no extension. I would also like to draw your attention to another aspect. Currently, the draft law provides for... At first reading, it was intended to establish that responsibility would be possible if a person had reason to worry that a threat could be realised, i.e. that the victim considered all this to be serious. This criterion is also proposed to be removed. The problem is not just that the police will have very, very many applications. The problem is that the police will be obliged to punish people on every application. That must not be allowed. I call for this proposal not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U186	Name to Member Juris Jušas. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U187	Colleagues! I would like to remind you that the wording proposed at first reading was supported on condition that it is improved. In order to improve the original version, a great deal of work has really been done by the Ministry of Justice. In the legal commission, the wording of the bill proposed by the Ministry of Justice was supported by a strong majority vote. I will tell you why, in my opinion, the original version is not to be supported, and there are at least three reasons for that. First. The original version significantly limits the scope of the protected interests of persons. Thus, the initial offer of protection against threats is limited to cases where the health of the person or his or her relatives, sexual integrity, and property is at stake. The Ministry of Justice at the sitting of the Legal Commission has argued that the list of threats supported at first reading does not cover all possible types of threats and there is no reasonable reason to specifically protect only certain interests. Secondly. There is a clear overlap between criminal liability, as the health threat, namely the threat of serious personal injury, where there have been grounds for fear of such threat being fulfilled, is provided for in Article 132 of the Criminal Law. Thirdly. The initial offer not only limits protection against different threats, against different types of threats, but also places the fear of a mandatory condition, i.e. it must be justified by the fact that the threats presented can be implemented. This condition is a criminal law criterion for criminal liability - for example, on the threat of murder or serious personal injury. The administrative responsibility for penalties, starting from the warning, is disproportionate, including disproportionate from the point of view of proof. Therefore, in order to separate itself from criminal responsibility, there is no sign - if there have been grounds for fear that these threats can be implemented. If there has been a serious threat of murder or rape, the person, by his application to the police, has given an assessment of these threats as sufficiently seriously prejudiced by his interests and right to peace. It should therefore be borne in mind that threats to personal health can vary widely: personal health, such as minor or moderate personal injury; fundamental rights such as homelessness, personal data, freedom, dignity and dignity; morality, such as the threat of a person to distribute material of an intimate nature without his consent, and so on. There may be situations where the threat of killing has been misunderstood, but the threat of getting into the house, defamation, a report on an unwitting crime, a threat of knowingly false testimony or of killing a domestic animal may prove to be realistic. It is therefore wrong to try to list all the interests, rights and freedoms that will be protected against threats and to regard others as less protected. Therefore, the approach of the Ministry of Justice should be supported, as it provides an opportunity to ensure a fair and fair solution in all cases that cannot be guaranteed by the Kazistic regulation. The measure of punishment can be a measure of the seriousness of the threat, depending on the type of interest, the nature of the threat and the identity of the dangerner. The norm will allow users to impose penalties, starting from a warning where the threat of interest has been low, up to EUR 2 000 in very serious cases, which in fact could lead to a criminal offence in terms of their own harm. The argument that there will be a lot of applications is not a reason not to solve the problem. The police shall be sufficiently professional to distinguish between situations where a person has wrongly applied to the police. And I would like to point out that there was discussion within the Legal Commission about whether this proposed version, supported by the Commission, would need to be improved. Conclusion: yes, it must be improved, perhaps the criteria must be narrowed, but in any case this proposal is, in my opinion, acceptable and one that can work for the third reading. I therefore call on all colleagues to support this proposed approach and to vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U188	Thank you. I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mr. Izalnieks... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U189	Yes, the Commission supported this proposal contrary to a sub-committee which did not support a similar approach.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U190	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - The Legal Commission's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 37, for - 22, for - 10. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U191	6. - the proposal by the Minister for the Interior, Maria Golubeva. A new article would be added to the law, namely administrative liability for infringement of the prohibition of discrimination. For various reasons, this discrimination may exist, but was not supported by the Commission, since it was considered that this infringement of the prohibition of discrimination does not have any effect in this wording and would therefore be so widely interpreted that any difference in treatment could be a breach of the prohibition of discrimination and a person could turn to the police, and it would be difficult for the police to provide any guidance on how to respond to such an application. Consequently, the proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U192	Members have not applied for a vote in the debate, but have requested a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Maria Golubeva! Please, let's vote! On - 23, against - 38, refraining from - 4. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U193	7. - a similar proposal from the Minister for the Interior, Maria Golubeva. It is envisaged to complement the law with a new article on administrative responsibility for causing social hatred and distrust. By a similar argument, the proposal was rejected by the Legal Commission, since the article’s proposal does not have any required effect on the... Thus, any expression that seems to someone to be causing social hatred or distrust... this could actually be the case with the police and it would be difficult for the police to distinguish, as the legislator would not have given any guidance on how to assess social hatred or distrust. Consequently, the Commission did not support the proposal. I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U194	Members have not applied for a vote in the debate, but have requested a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Maria Golubeva! Please, let's vote! For -13, for -50, for -6. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U195	8 / 8 - The legal commission's proposal. Associated with 5. - the proposed Commission supported and designate the State Police as the responsible authority for investigating threats or persecution as an administrative offence. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U196	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U197	9. - also a proposal from the Legal Commission. It is envisaged that in a number of cases, the State Language Centre is also a co-responsible institution for investigating violations related to the field of use of the state language, because it was simply forgotten in the course of the adoption of the law. So this is a correction proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U198	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U199	Consequently, all nine proposals have been examined. I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U200	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Administrative Penalty on Violations in the Fields of Administration, Public Order and Use of State Language”! Please, let's vote! No, 73, against and refrains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U201	The deadline for the third reading of the proposals would be one week or... It's 3 March.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U202	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 3 March this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Official Electronic Address”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Gatis Zamurs. Please! I'm sorry, the name to the Member... I'm sorry, I've jumped one bill ahead. Excuse me! On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Invalidity Act”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social Affairs and Labour, Member Evita Zālīte–Grosa. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U203	Hello, fellow Members, again! The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs has examined and supported the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Invalidity” prior to the second reading. Five proposals have been received. 1. - Proposal by Evita Zalīte-Gross, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare. We're going to see the interpretation... the procedure for granting, amount and conditions of performance shall be laid down by the Cabinet of Ministers. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U204	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U205	2. - Proposal by Evita Zalīte-Gross, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare. Provision shall be made for the exclusion of the number and the words ‘the interpretation service referred to in paragraph 6’ in the fifth paragraph of Article 12. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U206	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U207	3. - Proposal by Evita Zalīte-Gross, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare. The second paragraph of Article 13 shall be deleted. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U208	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U209	4. - Proposal by Evita Zalīte-Gross, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare. Add the third paragraph of Article 13, after the words ‘the provision of a service’, with the words ‘according to the funds allocated by the annual state budget law’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U210	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U211	And 5. - also the proposal by Evita Zalīte-Gross, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare. Provision shall be made for supplementing the fifth paragraph of Article 13 with the word ‘volume’ after the word ‘sord interpreter service’. We've looked at everyone...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U212	Members support proposal 5.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U213	We have examined all the proposals. I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U214	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on amendments to the Invalidity Law at second reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U215	The deadline for submitting proposals is 10 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U216	Thank you. The time limit for the submission of tenders shall be 10 March of this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Official Electronic Address”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Gatis Zamurs. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U217	Hello, head of the Saeima sitting! Dear colleagues, In the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy we have examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Official Electronic Addresses” (No. 1337/ Lp13). The aim of the draft law is to speed up the implementation of an effective method of communication in the defence department and to extend the scope of the entities mentioned in the Law on Official Electronic Address, for which the use of e-address is mandatory. Simply put, this draft law will enable the use of e-address in communication with the national guards in order to speed up and facilitate the possibility for the Ministry of Defence to communicate with them. I think that, in the context of the current situation, I do not need to justify the necessity and relevance of these amendments. On behalf of the Commission, I ask that the draft law be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U218	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Official Electronic Address” as urgent! Please, let's vote! For - 76, for - no, for - 1. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U219	Thank you. I ask the Saeima to support the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Official Electronic Addresses at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U220	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Official Electronic Address”! Please, let's vote! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U221	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 10 March, consideration by the Saeima at the sitting - 17 March.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U222	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for proposals - 10 March and for consideration by the Saeima - 17 March. Draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Edgars Tavars. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U223	Dear President, Dear colleagues, The draft law drawn up by the Ministry of Justice “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” aims to introduce a clear, special regulation that will allow land owners to combine the buildings (buildings) located on their land in simple court proceedings with an unknown belonging – with an unknown belonging, which was built during the Soviet period or until 5 April 1993 (with the entry into force of the Land Register Law). This draft law, these amendments, provides for regularisation in simplified and clear written proceedings of the issue of unexplored belonging buildings by merging them into a single, joint property. According to the information provided by the Legal Commission and information available to members of the Saeima, there are currently more than 191 thousand buildings in the country. The problem has therefore been current for years. This draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law”, submitted by the Ministry of Justice and approved by the Legal Commission, provides that this case is arranged together with the accompanying draft law “Amendments to the law “On Recording of Real Estate in Land Registers””. Therefore, on behalf of the Legal Commission, I ask Members to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U224	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” at first reading! Please, let's vote! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U225	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be one month, or until 24 March of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U226	Thank you. So the deadline for proposals is 24 March this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Welfare Organisations”, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Aldis Adamovičs. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U227	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Good afternoon, colleagues! Thus, the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government for the first reading has examined amendments to the Law on Public Welfare Organisations. These amendments provide for the addition of a number of articles to this law and therefore of Article 11 with a public benefit organisation... that the public benefit organization is entitled, in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Social Enterprise Law, to set up a limited liability company, which is to be granted the status of a social enterprise, and therefore to transfer to it, free of charge, the donated property and financial resources. The Commission has supported these amendments. On behalf of the Commission, I also call on colleagues to support them.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U228	Thank you. Members have not applied in the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Social Welfare Organisations”! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U229	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading shall be 1 March of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U230	Thank you. So the deadline for proposals is 1 March this year. Draft law “Amendments to law on the entry of immovable property in land registers”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Edgars Tavars. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U231	Thank you, Mr President. As I mentioned earlier, we adopted the amendments to the Civil Procedure Law on this inexplicable ownership as at first reading... the joint ownership of buildings built before 5 April 1993. In the Legal Commission, the Ministry of Justice has submitted the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Recording of Real Estate in Land Registers”, the aim of which is to actually create the legal basis of the law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Part of the Civil Law of the Republic of Latvia on the Introductory Rights of the Renewed Civil Law of 1937”.... And in fact, this draft law also describes the procedure for the fourth paragraph of Article 14... designated buildings, buildings built before 5 April 1993... a single ownership combination takes place. It is planned that this draft law will enter into force at the same time as the amendments approved at first reading in the Civil Procedure Law, therefore, honourable colleagues, on behalf of the Legal Commission, call for support to the amendments to the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U232	Thank you for your report. Members have not applied in the debate. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Registration of Real Estate in Land Registers”! Please, let's vote! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U233	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be one month, or until 24 March of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U234	Thank you. So the deadline for proposals is 24 March this year. Draft Act ‘Amendment to the Law on the Financial and Capital Market Commission’, second reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Reinis Znotiņš. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U235	Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting! Dear colleagues, We are working on the draft law “Amendment to the Law of the Financial and Capital Market Commission” (No. 300/Lp13). The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission dealt with this draft law at second reading. For the second reading, the Commission received one proposal: that is, the proposal of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, which, in principle, clarifies the wording with the words 'collective financing service providers'. In the Commission, this proposal was supported and I also call on the Saeima to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U236	Thank you for your report. Members have not applied for a debate. The proposal is supported. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law of the Financial and Capital Markets Commission”! Please, let's vote! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Thank you. The proposal for second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U237	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading shall be 7 March of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U238	Thank you. So the deadline for the proposals is 7 March this year. Draft Law “Law on Collective Financing Services”, second reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Reinis Znotiņš. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U239	The Budget and Finance (tax) Commission at second reading has examined the draft law “Law on Collective Financing Services” (No. 1233/Lp13). In the second reading, 32 proposals have been received. Most of them are the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission's proposals... presented as proposals by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. In fact, they come from the Ministry of Finance, which has simply missed the deadline for tabling proposals, and the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has accordingly agreed to present them as commission proposals. So it's 1. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. It shall specify the laws, regulations and administrative provisions by means of the words ‘acts directly applicable in the European Union’. Therefore, the relevant bend is specified. The Commission has supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U240	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U241	2. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. The purpose of the law shall be specified in editorial terms. This proposal was also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U242	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U243	3. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. It shall specify the text using the words ‘authorisations to be granted and’ and shall exclude the word ‘applicable’. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U244	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U245	4. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. This provides for the addition of paragraph 2, after the word ‘competent’, with the word ‘monitoring’. This too has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U246	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U247	5. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It refers to the title and first paragraph of Article 4 of the draft law in the following wording: ‘... The competent supervisory authority in Latvia, Article 29(1) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U248	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U249	6. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. It also clarifies the text by specifying the word... the content and the arrangements for submitting them. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U250	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U251	7. - thus also a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. It also clarifies the text using words... ‘in accordance with this Law, 2020/1503 and others’... So that's what it's like... The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U252	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U253	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. It also clarifies, just as in the previous cases, the text by citing that regulation. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U254	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U255	Nine are also involved. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. It specifies the text by citing the same Regulation. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U256	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U257	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. It shall also clarify the text referring to this Regulation and replace the words ‘issued provision’ by the words ‘issued provision’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U258	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U259	11. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Add the title of this implementing regulation to Article 10 of the draft law. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U260	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U261	12. - also a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. It is editorial and clarifies the words ‘auditors and managers’... shall be replaced by the words ‘a sworn auditor or a commercial and supervisory body or an executive body of sworn auditors’. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U262	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U263	13. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. It shall complement point 5 of the first subparagraph, after the word ‘to submit’, with the word ‘actions’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U264	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U265	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. It replaces in the introductory part of the second paragraph the words ‘infringement of Regulation No 2020/1503, this Law and other’ with the words “infringement of this Law, Regulation No. 2020/1503 and others.’ Therefore, a editorial clarification. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U266	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U267	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. This provides for the exclusion of the words ‘in any individual case’ in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of the second subparagraph. Does not substantially change the text, clarifies it. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U268	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U269	16. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. So also clarify the text by mentioning... ‘in compliance with this Law, 2020/1503 and others.’ The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U270	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U271	17. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. It provides for the exclusion of Article 12 of the draft law by changing the numbering of subsequent articles accordingly. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U272	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U273	18. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. This provides for the exclusion of the words ‘or customer information requirements’ in Article 13(8) of the draft law. The Commission is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U274	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U275	19. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Paragraph 12 is therefore replaced by the following: The information requirements set out in Article 15(2) and (3) of 2020/1503 shall be notified to the Commission of any significant change to the terms of the authorisation as well as, where the information to be provided on request is not provided.’ Editatively specify in principle. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U276	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U277	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. In point 13, the words ‘the supervisory authority’ shall be replaced by the words ‘the Commission’. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U278	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U279	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. In paragraphs 19 and 20, the words ‘and assurance’ shall be excluded. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U280	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U281	22. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Article 14 of the draft law provides for the exclusion of the word ‘public’ in paragraph 1 of the first subparagraph and the exclusion of the words ‘approved by the management body’ in the first and second sentences of paragraph 4. The Commission is also in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U282	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U283	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It provides for the replacement of the figures in Article 14, first paragraph, point 3, and the words ‘paragraphs 4 and 5’ with the words ‘paragraphs 4 or 5’ and in paragraph 4, ‘to which the consolidated financial statements must be drawn up’, with the words ‘to prepare the consolidated financial statements’. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U284	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U285	24. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. It provides for the expression of point 1 of the second subparagraph as follows: ‘a public notice specifying the provider of the crowdfunding service or a third party designated to carry out the functions related to the provision of crowdfunding services and the nature of the infringement’. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U286	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U287	25. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Clarifying the text by referring to this Regulation which is being implemented. And the Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U288	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U289	26. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. The title of Chapter VI is replaced by the following: Payments by providers of crowdfunding services to the Commission.’ The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U290	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U291	27. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. The title of the article is worded as follows: ‘Article 16. Payments to the Commission.’ Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U292	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U293	28. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. It shall replace the words ‘the financing of the Commission’s activities’ in the second subparagraph, with the word ‘the Commission’. Editable. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U294	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U295	29. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. The third and fourth paragraphs of Article 16 shall be excluded. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U296	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U297	30. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Plans to complement the draft law with a new - 17. - Article 10, where appropriate, by changing the numbering of the following Articles. Consequently, the numbering of the following articles has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U298	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U299	31 as well. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. It provides for the wording of Article 17 of the draft law in the following wording, in principle changing the articles: “Article 18. Procedures for the handling of applications and complaints within the Commission’s competence...’, editorially specifying the text and supplementing it with that Regulation. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U300	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U301	Finally, Proposal 32 to supplement the draft law with Article 18 in the following wording: "Article 19. Procedure for dealing with applications and complaints within the competence of the Consumer Rights Protection Centre...’. And here too, some draftings are clarified and the article is supplemented by the title of this regulation. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U302	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U303	Thank you, colleagues. We have therefore examined all the proposals in this draft law. And the Commission is asking to support this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U304	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law on collective financing services! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U305	The deadline for submitting proposals is 7 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U306	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 7 March this year. Dear colleagues, The order of business - under the heading "Preview of draft decisions". Draft decision “On Cabinet Order of 10 February 2022 No. Orders Nos 84 and 2022 of 11 February This Decision is addressed to the Member States. 720 ‘Advertising the Emergency’. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Edwin Šnore. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U307	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, again! The aim of the draft decision is to determine the return of the contact persons to the education process without complying with the specific conditions of quarantine of the house, as well as to maintain the rules on the implementation of vaccination or congestion by the end of the emergency, which relate to the implementation of the study process on the spot. The decision provides: in order to participate in the field education process at the basic and secondary level, a subject identified as a contact person may not comply with the conditions for home quarantine provided that routine screening is carried out. In particular, home quarantine is no longer required for 10 days. On behalf of the Commission, I call for this decision to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2366-U308	Thank you for your report. Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the order of 10 February 2022 of the Cabinet of Ministers No. Orders Nos 84 and 2022 of 11 February This Decision is addressed to the Member States. 720 “Advertising the Emergency”! Please, let's vote! For - 52, for - 1, for - 14. Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, We have therefore examined the agenda for the remote emergency session on 24 February. Let's keep working in 15 minutes. Members' registration is over. Let's keep working at 3 p.m. - So in 15 minutes. I am closing the remote emergency sitting on 24 February.
