ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-04-PT13-2381-U1	Good afternoon, honourable Members of the Saeima! Sir, Ministers! Dear President of the Declaration Club on May 4 Dear Members of the Supreme Council! The official sitting of the Saeima on May 4, 2022 dedicated to the 32nd anniversary of the restoration of Independence of the Republic of Latvia!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-04-PT13-2381-U2	Name for a solemn address to the Speaker of the Saeima Ināra Mūrniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-04-PT13-2381-U3	Dear Members of the Saeima! Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. Ministers! Excellency! Highly honored members of the Supreme Council – restorers of independence! Dear people! May 4, 32 years ago, there was a dividing line. Latvia withdrew from the totalitarian Communist formation, which was called the Soviet Union. Latvia withdrew from a very aggressive and limited political system, from such a non-existentity, which early or late was expected to be destroyed. The destruction was recorded in the ideology of this formation, in the economic model, and in the efforts of one nation to inspire other nations. Trying to take people away their identity. At the meeting of May 4, 32 years ago, writer Alberts Bels of the Supreme Council described the real situation of Latvians from today's point of view. Bels said: “The attitude of the USSR government towards the needs of the Latvian nation, towards the needs of the Latvian nation, is similar to the hidden genocide. Without changing the course of events, we are expected to be destroyed. Genocide policy is disguised with words about the prosperity of internationalism in the territory of Latvia, and Latvians themselves are referred to as peacemakers. Our concern to preserve the nation is, in turn, called nationalism and extremism." Very well known, isn't it? Today, we understand more clearly than ever – when they fled from the Soviet Union, Latvians avoided their way to non-existentity. It was a good moment for this. The historical dividing line has led our people to return to freedom, independence and democracy. The nation returns to its statehood and to its future! And that day, we have many reasons for joy. May 4, 1990 – it is Latvia's national rebirth day. We can be pleased that we expect our 32nd anniversary of the restoration of independence as a member of the European Union, NATO and the OECD. And that means specific political, economic and, above all, security standards and levels. Latvia is vigilant in its fundamental values – parliamentary democracy and national sovereignty. We maintain our values enshrined in the Constitution – national principles, Latvian language, Latvian and European cultural space, the rule of law and social care. We're moving forward! But on this occasion, May 4 is different. A new dividing line has arrived. The world is experiencing historic changes. This dividing line was drawn by Putin Russia with its unwarranted, unprovoked military invasion based on lies and imperial ambitions in Ukraine. Since 24 February, civilised world relations with Russia have changed dramatically. Political collaborationism, which has often been developed by countries in the name of Putin's regime, has been discussed. There has been a small amount of strusa tactic, which seems to be unseen, and the speech Leopold’s strategy with the slogan “Let’s Live Friendly!” has come to an end. That there or something. With this invasion, Russia, the imaginary and real heir of the Soviet Union, has violated all red lines. Hate, cruelty, inhumanity, as Russia shows in Ukraine, shocks everyone, and people are getting away! The murder, torture of Ukrainian civilians, including women and children, sexual violence, defamation of the dead in Buča, Iran, Mariupole and elsewhere is all a cause of enormous pain. These pains cannot be avoided. More than 10 million Ukrainians have already gone on refugees. The number of people who have been deported from Ukraine to Russia is inescapable. U.S. President Jo Baiden, one of the first things that happened in Ukraine, called genocide. ‘ To find legal evidence for this, but I call it genocide against the Ukrainian people,” said the U.S. President. On 21 April, our Saeima unanimously adopted a statement on Russia's aggression and war crimes in Ukraine, stressing that Russia is implementing genocide against the Ukrainian people. The aim of the Russian invasion is to eliminate the statehood of Ukraine, to eliminate Ukrainian and to make Ukrainian itself an invalid nation. And that happens in the 21st century! With this war, Russia has made one of the fatal mistakes in its history. It has set the way to the collapse of its geopolitical influence. On the way to non-existentity. For the Ukrainian people, this historical dividing line means a new future. Ukraine's future is clearly and will be in Europe and Western civilization. Ladies and gentlemen! If Putin, at the Russian Federal Meeting in 2005, described the collapse of the Soviet Union as “the biggest geopolitical disaster of the 20th century”, then the civilized world now concludes that the geopolitical disaster of the 21st century is Putin’s own coming to power. We Baltics often repeat at the moment: now you see – we have been right when we warned about Putin's Russia – this power must not be trusted, it must not be good intentions. Today the analysts conclude that Putin has been preparing for the war in Ukraine since the entry into office of the Russian leader. And Ukraine is only the first step in the Kremlin's plan. Putin wants to return to the borders of the Russian Empire, and the list of potential victims includes both Moldova and several NATO member states, including Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. The free world has understood all this, and this is why Russia is facing unprecedented economic sanctions. The whole amount of sanctions has not even been imposed yet, but it is clear that Russia's oil, natural gas and coal should also be the most widely used veto, because it is energy exports that provide Russia with the highest income. Russia will be economically rejected for many decades. Russia must come out of this war so weakened that it will never again be able to repeat such aggression – this is the main goal of sanctions. This is also the military objective that Ukraine is pursuing with the support of its allies. Honorable people of Latvia! Ukraine wins not only with weapons. Ukraine proves that in today’s world there is a place for masculinity, heroism and patriotism. Moreover, without these virtues, democracy would not be able to resist tyranny. The brutal aggression of Russia has very much united Ukrainian society – both Ukrainians, Russians and other nationalities. It is obvious that they are all fighting together. One for the other. Everyone is fighting for his own homeland, for self-esteem, for democracy, for the right to exist. They are historically invincible values. Ukrainians are also united by the fact that their opponent has no value. There's no honor of humanity, no morality, no honor of a soldier. No legal provisions shall be binding. There is only rude power, corruption, manipulation. Historically, it can only be lost. The Russian invasion in Ukraine has changed not only politicians but also people. The perspective on many things has changed – also unrelated to war. We have become more demanding towards each other, against the media, against institutions and against businesses. People demand to speak a clear language, defend Latvia's interests more loudly, express support for Ukraine, do not be afraid to break the ties with the Soviet past. Now we see what is something and who is on which side. It's impossible. We ask each other again questions: who is there for us, or are we all on the same side? Do Latvian Russians really support Putin? Can we finally demolish the occupation monument in Pārdaugava? What are our most important values? When the preamble to the Satversme was discussed eight years ago, we talked a lot about values – national, cultural, social and political values. Today there is no stronger foundation than the Satversme, so that Latvian society can build mutual understanding. Constitutional values are national state, democracy, Latvian language and culture, condemnation of totalitarian regimes, universal and Christian values. We are proud of our Constitution! And this year we are also celebrating the 100th anniversary of its adoption and its entry into force. Nothing in this way divides society as a crowd, hypocrisy, shame and uncertainty. It is therefore good that the Constitution, which is open to every citizen of our country, formulates these foundations in a clear way. All of us really want to be. But those who are unable to live in accordance with the Constitution and its values will never take root in our land. On 23 April, at the Freedom Monument, the anti-war protest “Russian Votes Against War” took place. People expressed their sharp condemnation of the Kremlin regime and Russian military aggression in Ukraine. That's a good sign! Our Russians have confirmed that they are not about Putin's army, which, according to the pianist Andrejs Osokina, comes only with death. May there be more such places against the position of Tatjana Ždanoka and her peers! We see that the wave of patriotism is growing. Over the last few months, more than 2,400 people have expressed their desire to join Earth. The New Guard will be strengthened. Civil identity is being strengthened, people have become more helpful, warmer, more compassionate. Patriotism can never be too much. If we have confidence in our Latvia, if we love our land, if we keep our values high, we are unbreakable. Ladies and gentlemen! Television viewers and radio listeners! We must all be aware that Ukraine has been in a conventional war with Russia since 24 February, but all the Baltic States and most Western countries are in a hybrid war with Russia. Sanctions, reduction of diplomatic and business relations to a minimum, Russian exclusion from international organizations, limitation of propaganda media – these are components of hybrid war. It changes a lot. This undoubtedly leads to a position. We were among the first to provide military assistance to Ukraine before 24 February. The Ministry of Defence has delivered arms and equipment, dry food, fuel, ammunition, anti-tank weapons, air defense missiles to the Ukrainian armed forces, Stinger. It is not yet half a year, but the amount of military assistance provided to Ukraine in monetary terms has reached a third of our annual military budget. And we'll help with more. Because we know that Latvia's military defence starts in Donbass today. By strengthening Ukraine, we are strengthening ourselves, and every citizen of our country feels that. Thank you to all the people of Latvia who actively implement various ideas to help Ukraine! Thank you to anyone who participates in order to donate.lv to you more than four and a half million euros for Ukrainian defence needs, including war hospitals. Thank you for your support to Ukrainian refugees in Latvian municipalities, thank you for your inactivity and passion for Tvitera convoy, who has already taken almost 300 local cars to Ukraine. Thank you to our microsurgical team! Thanks to non-governmental organizations, thanks to Christian denominations. Thank you for sharing the warmth of your heart! What you do brings great faith that we can rely on one another if necessary. If you need help, the vast majority of our people will say the same as President of Ukraine Volodimir Zelenskis: “If you!” - I'm here! Ladies and gentlemen! Much depends on circumstances, but often more on individuals. Why is Ukraine's President Zelenski today the most inspiring world leader? When I had the opportunity to meet him in the surrounded Kivu with the specs of the Estonian and Lithuanian parliaments, it was a special feeling. The seriousness of his responsibilities is difficult to describe. But we can see that Zelenski is well aware of what he expects and of what he needs to do. He's a leader! It was the personalities who separated a lot on May 4nd, 32 years ago. Thank you sincerely to the Members of the Supreme Council who voted for independence. You were just as aware of the work you have to do, the expectations of all Latvia. The huge burden of responsibility lies on the shoulders of Daina Yynievāns, leader of the People's Front of Latvia. You have all protected the fundamental values of our country together. You helped the people return to freedom, independence and democracy. To our statehood. To Latvia, which has a future. Thank you for that. (Applause) Honorable people of Latvia! Historical events often show similarities. We remember the Awakening time, May 4, the January barricades. Everyone in the ear had a radio receiver, and we were constantly listening to the news. What's new, how's ours going? It was existentially important. The restoration of independence was the most important. Now it's Spring 2022, and we listen to the news again. How are Ukrainians fighting against the occupations? Who wins? Our security also depends to a large extent on how the Ukrainians are doing. Ukraine's victory is important because it will strengthen our independence. It was clear on May 4th – there is the Latvian People's Front and there is an Interfront. Now we see that there are still people in Latvia who defend imperialism, the idea of Russian superiority, occupation of another country, transhipment, violations of international law. I don't even know how to call them today, but they are the same people who still praise Stalinism, justify the Holodomor, are ready to preach the superiority of one nation, while the other people are subjected to genocide. The similarity is that at that time it was important to restore independence, today – to maintain and strengthen independence. That is why our Ministry of Defence is currently working to create another international military base in Latvia. The presence of the forces in the Baltic States needs to be substantially extended, and this requires three battle-ready divisions. NATO Heads of State will soon discuss this, as well as a new strategic concept and other topical issues at the meeting in Madrid. We expect Finland and Sweden to submit their applications to become NATO members this month at the same time. Russia's aggression has therefore, paradoxically, contributed to the expansion of the Alliance. Most of the member states of the alliance have already decided to increase the defence budget. According to President of Ukraine Volodimir Zelenski, “Freedom must be better armed than tyranny!” In the coming years, the Baltic States, like many European countries, will build a stronger comprehensive defence system. NATO's military capabilities are growing and this gives us confidence that our future is safe. Dear colleagues, We, 13. The Saeima, the last year of its term, is a notable time. This year we celebrate events that were crucial for our country 100 years ago and are still significant. With the centenary of the Satversme, we will celebrate the centenary of the Saeima on 7 November 1922. I can tell you today that in the second half of May there will be a thrilling event – giving a name to a new breed of ceremonials, especially selected and dedicated to the centenary of the Saeima. The hope will be given the word “free. ” The breed is selected by the Institute of Gardening in Dobele and symbolises trust in the fundamental values of our country – freedom, independence and democracy. Colleagues! Today 13. The Saeima has last gathered in a formal sitting in honour of the restoration of the state's independence. Honourable Members! I would like to thank you for your work. Although everything has gone, we can be pleased with the many new and much needed laws that the Saeima has adopted. The 14th election will take place in the autumn. The Saeima. Whatever it is, nobody has ever happened yet. But it is quite certain that populism will be reduced. I call on the voters to be aware of the importance of what kind of leaders of the people we elect. One hundred members of the next Saeima will be the legislator of Latvia until 2026. Let us vote in favour of those who fulfill promises and those who believe in values. And I'm going to quote writer Albert Bell again. At his meeting on May 4, 32 years ago, he said: “I know that man’s life is short, but I have always lived with such hope that my people will have a sunlife. I am not terrified by the temporality of my life, but by the unbearable loss of the life of a people. We therefore demand independence for all countries where human life must be protected so that it is holy and inviolable.” The life of the sun for Latvia! The life of the sun for Ukraine! God bless Latvia! (Applause!)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-04-PT13-2381-U4	Thank you, Chairman of the Saeima. ( The Latvian Anthem is being played.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-04-PT13-2381-U5	Thank you. Thank you, everyone. I declare the official sitting closed on May 4, 2022 by the Saeima. I invite everyone to celebrate the celebration together! (Applause) Video transmission of the sitting
