ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U1	Dear colleagues, We will begin the second remote emergency session of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 17 February 2022. On the agenda - reports from the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Disease Management Law” presented by Member Jūlija Stepanenko, Lubova Švekova, Māra Možvillo, Karina Sprūde and Ieva Krapāne (No. 1340/Lp13) transferred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ “Lubova Švecova, a Member, has applied to speak about”.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U2	Thank you. Good morning! Dear colleagues from the coalition! You do not have the ability to admit errors and apologize for what has been done. You are happy to choose a strategy to wipe out problems under the guise, find guilty personalities - the ministers that are already leaving - and put on opponents' tags, marginalising them, introducing new penalties and scaring people. Colleagues! We are always trying to help you return to humanity. You're very bad at this. This model of output that you offer does not answer the question of the people who have stopped: “When will I work?” We submitted this bill on the morning of 7 February, in the hope that by 15 February, the classification of people by certificate will be brought to an end, as several countries of the European Union have already done. This date will now have to be amended, but we are calling for support for this draft law, because full clarity needs to be introduced in the labour law. Currently, the Cabinet Order competes with the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection, and this is not normal. The requirement for certificates in both the private and public sectors must be completely brought to an end. Thousands of reliable public administration staff and professionals working in the private sector are waiting for this cruel misunderstanding to end and be able to return to their responsibilities. All the more so, people must be compensated for this forced time off. Early on, we will come to the conclusion that this step was pointless damage, and that is why you should pay for this mistake. And finally. Colleagues! People are waiting for the end of the emergency, they think that on 1 March there will be a government arbitrariness and we will return to the rule of law. But tell the people justice. Government powers remain. The Cabinet can return us to the certification regime and other restrictions at any time. This authorisation to the Cabinet of Ministers is disproportionate and unconstitutional, so it should be repealed immediately. I ask my colleagues to support this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U3	Thank you. Members have asked for a vote. Please call me! Vote on the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on the Management of communicable Diseases” (No. 1340/Lp13) transfer to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, determining that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 34, it's against - 50, it's not. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes the draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 Disease Management Act” presented by Member Viktors Valaiņa, Edgars Tatars, Janina Jalinska, Didžas Šmits and Armands Krauzes (No. 1342/Lp13) transferred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? Members have not applied for a 'yes' or 'no' but have been asked for a vote. Please call me! Vote on the draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 law on the control of the spread of infection” (No. 1342/Lp13) transfer to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, making it a responsible commission! Please, let's vote! - 37, against - 48, refrains - not. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Conduct of Service of the Institutions of the Ministry of the Interior System and the Administration of Prisons with Special Degrees of Service” presented by Member Māra Možvillo, Ramona Petravičas, Alda Gobzem, Karina Sprūde and Ieva Krapāne be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Maris Možvillo.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U4	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Hello, colleagues! Hello, listeners, viewers! Our proposal is to end the rule of law, which obliges the Ministry of the Interior... for staff in the home restaurant with special service grades ending with service or leaving the service, pay the remaining value of the special form. Our proposal is to change Article 44 of the law - to add a fifth paragraph - and to provide that "the fourth paragraph of Section 44 of this Law shall not apply in cases where the retired official returns the uniforms issued to him in full". With this new point, we want to say that the country must set an example that it takes care of its staff recruited and, in this case, also of the staff of the home restaurant with special service grades... and these people must be provided with appropriate equipment. It's not normal for the state to demand back when leaving the service... for the equipment that he was given because he needed it for his work to perform the functions assigned to him. We believe that this provision is unfair to those who risk their health, their lives, protecting the country... and, when leaving the service, they are still required to pay for this uniform. Colleagues, I ask that this proposal be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption so that we can prevent this injustice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U5	Thank you. Members have not applied for 'no' but have been asked to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Administration of Institutions of the Ministry of the Interior System and Prisons with Special Degrees of Service in the Law on the Conduct of Service”, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management” presented by Member Kaspars Ģirgena, Erika Pucena, Ramona Petraviča, Māra Možvillo and Karina Sprūde (No. 1347/Lp13) transferred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the Commission responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Kaspars Ģirgens.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U6	Good morning, colleagues! It's never too late to admit your mistakes... which you have allowed. One of the most important mistakes during the Comma pandemic was that more than 60,000 Latvians were made redundant, preventing them from working, and now, when there is an energy crisis, the Covid crisis, they have been denied the opportunity to work. We can see very well - according to statistics - how many people have now been formally suspended from work. In November and December, there were about 10,000 people... were officially registered with the State Employment Agency as unemployed; January statistics show that the number of unemployed has increased by 0.2 percent, i.e. by about 2000... officially still become unemployed as a result of your, say, activities. There is now February and we can predict in February that there will be a similar trend - so there will be an increase of about 2,000 more people who will be suspended from work and who will find it difficult to pay these bills... and also pay your daily expenses. Of course, we can look positive... towards the front that, from 1 March - the coalition has finally heard it - many will be allowed to return without certificates... and start work but wait less than two weeks. But we can look a little further. Thus, 1 April will be the date on which all these restrictions could be fully lifted. This means that in March - even if we can take an example - workers will still be required to have collective certificates in the field of beauty, public catering or sports and will not be able to be fully qualified here... return workers. The forecast is that the number of unemployed could also increase in March. And still (I will remind you!) This is an inaction by the coalition or, more precisely, an act that has left so many people behind. I am very sorry to look at this campaign at the moment, where - even if we can take Facebook for example - the parties are very active in advertising, spending their parties, more precisely, the money allocated by the citizens of the country, so that they can advertise how consciously they are... and, thanks to them, there will now be these first steps that will enable people to work and receive services without certificates. But I think many will still be unable... will not forget that it is the coalition and... we all know which parties were directly responsible for leaving people from work, people were not able to receive services. People don't have such a short memory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U7	The vote is requested. Please call me! Vote on the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on the Management of communicable Diseases” (No. 1347/Lp13) transfer to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, making it a responsible commission! Please, let's vote! On - 34, against - 49, refraining from - 1. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “On the eleventh Additional Protocol to the Constitution of the World Postal Union” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Disclosure of Information” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the member Viktoras Valaiņa, Ulda Augulis, Edgars Tatars, Armands Krauze and Didžas Šmits’ draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Exceptional Increase in Energy Prices” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U8	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, My colleagues and I have tabled this bill because we in the political group... and, speaking to entrepreneurs, we see that at present there is a great problem for entrepreneurs to pay the bills that they have come for December and January. The increase in electricity prices for the population that is measuring... three four times, there is one thing, the other thing is for entrepreneurs who, in order to ensure business, the bill grew from one thousand to four five thousand euros. In such circumstances, the fines imposed by state-owned companies such as Latvenergo and others are extremely high, and in our view it would be only normal if the state-owned companies were also to follow the example of the local authorities that is currently being implemented... the majority of municipalities, stating that capital companies, management companies do not require penalties at the moment, this time of crisis. In our view, such practices should also be introduced by public undertakings. We shouldn't put an extra burden at the moment, put it on top of... to our entrepreneurs, our citizens, by imposing additional charges on them in the sense of interest. This would be a unique offer for a moratorium, a penalty interest moratorium, on the part of state-owned companies with more than 50 per cent in the country. We have discussed this issue with both business organisations, major, regional and Latvia's Council of Agricultural Organisations. The different farming organisations stress to us that this is a problem today - that the percentage of penalties comes. Imagine yourself, if the penalty interest on the contract is from EUR 5000, it is quite an additional cost. In my opinion, we should now reach people in return by offering some reasonable repayment schedules. If we are not prepared to release the electricity charge for the bills already issued, then at least not to require additional penalty interest, I think that would be understandable, logical and in this situation appropriate to everyone. Unfortunately, this interest is now being claimed. That is why we and our colleagues are calling for support for this draft law and for this problem to be addressed. In our view, this solution, which we are proposing, is justified, because - I am drawing attention once again - such practices already exist at municipal level and, in our view, should also be at national level. Thank you. I call for support for this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U9	Thank you. The vote is requested. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission the draft law "Amendment to the law on exceptional increases in energy prices", which states that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! For - 39, for - 45, for - 1. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. Next - referral of draft laws to commissions and first reading. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the draft law on the transparency of representation of interests presented by the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. And we start to look at it at first reading. Member Mārtiņš Stein, on behalf of the commission responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U10	Good morning, Madam President-in-Office of the Saeima. Good morning, honourable colleagues! Dear sitting viewers and listeners! This is another historic day in the Saeima, because we are moving towards a fairer, more open and more trust-building representation of interests. The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption has examined and supported at first reading a new draft law on the Transparency of Interest Representations drafted by a special working group set up by the Commission. The new draft law aims to ensure the transparency of the process of representation of interests, to promote public confidence in interest representatives and public authorities, and to ensure fair and equal opportunities for all stakeholders to engage in representation of interests. The draft law defines the concept of representatives of interest and representatives of interest, establishes a system of registration of interest representatives as well as a system of declaration of interest representative activities. It is also intended to determine the public powers of interest representatives, as well as the limits of activities in the process of representation of interests. The draft law defines the basic principles of activity of participants in representation process and supervision of achievement of the aim of the law, as well as establishes responsibility for the provision of false information and violation of the law. I will present the draft law in more detail below. Several features of lobbying regulation are already included in regulatory enactments, however, it is too little, for example, regarding the transparency of the legislative process in the Saeima The Rally of Saeima stipulates that the Cabinet of Ministers is obliged to prepare an annotation of the draft law, which should indicate the grounds for drafting the law, aim and other cases, while the committee responsible for the annexation of the draft law submitted by the President of the State, the Saeima Commission or not less than five Members, including the information provided by the applicants, including the consultations carried out when preparing the draft law. The parliamentary roll also states that the sittings of the Saeima and the sittings of commissions are based on open hearings, commission meetings are recorded, information about the participants of the sitting is recorded, audio records of the sittings are also available. However, information on consultations is not available during the further legislative process when Members and other legislative entities submit their proposals for the draft. Specific... The law on transparency of interest representation will address this shortcoming by providing for an obligation to indicate any consultation that has affected the establishment of proposals. The proposed draft law sets out the principle of openness for a wider range of consultations, knowing that consultations take place in different forms and that the public should be informed of them. The draft law establishes an obligation for the Cabinet of Ministers to develop a procedure in which information about public consultation will be available to the general public. The laws and regulations, in particular the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the Activities of Public Officials, also regulate relations between public officials and individuals. The draft law establishes an additional obligation for former officials not to engage in representation activities for a certain period of time after the end of their duties. The central concept of a draft law is the concept of representation of interests, defined as a direct or indirect communication between a private person and a public authority representative in order to influence the initiation, adoption or application of a public decision. In turn, a public decision is defined as a regulatory act, a policy planning document or an act of application of law, but this draft law does not affect communication with representatives of the government about an administrative act or a court decision. Other exceptions to communication between individuals and public persons not covered by the draft law are also provided for, including communication between the Member and the voter, in so far as the purpose of such communication is not to influence the process of drawing up, adopting or implementing decisions by the public authorities. Similarly, communication between lawyers and counsellors and clients should not be considered as representation of interests, in so far as the purpose of communication is not to influence the decision-making or implementation processes. The activities of persons performing diplomatic and consular service and occupying diplomatic and consular service posts, as well as meetings of representatives of public authority and communication with representatives of political parties within the framework of political discussions shall not be considered as representation of interests within the meaning of this Law. In defining the interest representative, the purpose was to identify any individual irrespective of its legal status, whether a legal person, a natural person or an association of persons, since the purpose of the law is to establish which persons’ interests were represented. It is foreseen that interest representatives will have to register in the Register of Interest Representations operated by the Register of Enterprises. This will be subject to changes to the Law on the Register of Enterprises. It is established that interest representatives will have to register if they exercise their representation systemically, at least three times a year. Registration may take place within two weeks of the date on which the interest representative qualifies for systematic representation of interests, thus following communication with the public authority. Similarly, the obligation of post factum is imposed in other countries in which the regulation of lobbying has been adopted without imposing any obligation to register before the first communication with the public authority, since it could hinder the representation of interests and would be contrary to the purpose of that law. In view of the structure of the regulation, the interests represented will have to be reported to the public authority representative in the register for the first time. The register of interest representation will only be required to indicate the information which has not yet been submitted and registered in any of the registers kept by the Register of Enterprises, thus reducing the administrative burden for interest representatives. The law requires that members, members, shareholders and true beneficiaries should be made public so that the public authorities can have a real view of the interests represented. The draft law does not impose an obligation to indicate the specific interests of the interest representative, which are represented, because it could be a restrictive factor for interest representatives who have a wide range of interests due to the diversity of the clients represented or because of the scope of the organisation or... other reasons. In order not to impose a high bureaucratic burden on interest representatives, the draft law also does not impose an obligation on individuals to account for cases of interest representation, as set out in the other countries' lobbying regulations, such as Ireland. Such an obligation could be considered and implemented in the future when assessing the initial phase of the law. The draft law provides for the representatives of the interests registered in the register to be able to voluntarily declare information on the activities of representation of interests, as long as this is not mandatory. Everyone will also have the right to have access to the register's records and documents submitted to the registry authority free of charge. The obligation to provide information and to maintain the system of declaration of interest representation with the draft law has been entrusted to the Cabinet of Ministers, which has to develop the relevant regulation for a common information system, where you will be able to get acquainted with the activities of representation of interests in the country at one place, including meetings of officials with representatives of interests. The draft law provides that Members of the Saeima and commissions, when submitting drafts of laws and drafts of decisions, as well as proposals for drafts of laws and drafts of decisions, will indicate communication with representatives of interest, what has happened when preparing drafts of laws and drafts of decisions or proposals for drafts of laws and drafts of decisions. The other representatives of public authority, when submitting drafts of public decisions and proposals to them, will indicate the communication with representatives of interest, such as when preparing drafts of public decisions or proposals for these drafts - including municipalities. This information will be published in the system of declaration of interest, which will be developed by the Cabinet of Ministers. Article 6 of the draft law lays down the obligations of interest representatives when defining the basic principles of conduct, including the obligation for interest representatives to: refrain from providing intentionally false information; from representing manifestly conflicting interests; to refrain from promising that it has achieved a specific act or decision of the institution; to not agree on a royalty which depends on the interest representative achieving a specific act or decision of the institution; to encourage a public authority to violate the legal provisions binding upon it. The interest representative shall be obliged to ensure that all information provided to the registry authority in respect of himself is correct, up-to-date and not misleading. On non-compliance with the obligation to provide information, the law provides for an administrative penalty. The law also establishes duties and restrictions on the activities of the public authorities. It shall be prohibited, without prejudice to the principle of equality, to confer on one of the interests representatives specific advantages, to accept from the interest representative or from the private persons in whose interest he is acting gifts, hospitality offers or other benefits for himself or for others. It shall also be prohibited to use its official position and personal contacts in order to give an interest representative exclusive access to officials responsible for drawing up or making decisions in the interest of the interest representative or his representative, as well as to mislead the interest representative, giving an impression of the possibility to grant exclusive access to officials or the possibility to influence their conduct. It shall be prohibited to ask the interest representative to provide material support to the public authority in which he is employed or to organise events at its expense. The law also imposes restrictions in the area of conflict of interest. A representative of the public authority shall be prohibited from representing the interests of any individual during his or her term of office, where this may cause a conflict of interest, may conflict with the ethical norms binding on the public official or may prejudice the performance of his or her direct duties. This restriction shall remain in force for two years from the end of the term of office. In turn, a person whose representative of the public authority has invited as an expert on his own initiative to participate in the development or coordination of the draft decision in the performance of the expert’s duties shall be prohibited from simultaneously representing the interests of another person for the same draft decision. For monitoring the achievement of the objective of the law, it is established that the Cabinet of Ministers shall submit annually by 31 March a report to the Saeima on the progress made in achieving the objective of the law and implementation of the plan, as well as on the activities planned in the future. The draft law provides that the law will enter into force on 1 January 2023. In the end of 2019, a working group on the development of the Law on Lobbying was set up under the auspices of the Saeima Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption. The working group consisted of representatives of all parliamentary groups and members not belonging to political groups, representatives of the state administration, non-governmental organisations, as well as experts from the Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau, the State Chancellery, the Ministry of Justice, the Ombudsman’s Office, the Society for Transparency - Delna, the think tank PROVIDUS and the Latvian Financial Industry Association. In February 2021, the working group held public consultations with business organisations, representatives of non-governmental organisations and state institutions on the basic principles included in the draft law. Several ministries also received opinions on them, which were discussed in the working group. On behalf of the Commission, I thank all those involved in drafting the law on the transparency of interest representation. During the last month, the commission examined this draft law at two meetings of the Commission. As I said, the Commission decided unanimously to support the draft law at first reading. On behalf of the Commission, I also call on the Saeima to support this at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U11	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name of Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U12	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues and audiences! This week we celebrate the centenary of our Constitution and this year the centenary of the Saeima. The Constitution is strong, vital and modern, survived from time to time and protects the foundations of our country. When the state of emergency of the Communion pandemic is over and Members will return to the Saeima’s meeting room, we will be reminded of the first articles of the Satversme by inscriptions on the walls of the hall: “Latvia is a democratic republic” and “the power in the state of Latvia belongs to the people”. Lacotically and clearly. However, in order for us, Latvia, to survive, people need more than words, they need to be fulfilled. Democracy requires people to participate in it on a daily basis and not just every four years when the Saeima is elected or does not go to the elections at all. The question of whether public involvement would improve decision-making was raised by a strong majority of respondents a year ago. That was 61 percent of the respondents. In turn, 80 percent said that they felt unheard of by the Saeima and the ministry. And there were many more who said that they thought that decisions were made in the interests of the narrow groups. The draft law under consideration today is important: it is a cornerstone in reducing public suspicions and improving how we cooperate in decision-making and in law-making. No parliament and no power do without interference with decisions. It was not for nothing that the word "lobby" appeared in the English-speaking countries; it came with the appearance of parliaments - hundreds of years ago - pointing to the long galleries of the parliamentary building, which had many negotiations on what Parliament should do. As a result, modern nations can no longer do without a specific law regulating lobbying. And so in the Saeima we have now worked to make Latvia one of the countries in the world that has a modern regulation of lobbying. This is one of the few draft laws that have been created from zero - precisely in the Saeima - so let me outline our work, which I had the honour and responsibility to manage. We started work at the end of 2019 and we were, I would say, in a rather unpunished situation. Various international organisations had said for years that much had been done in Latvia in anti-corruption work, but the regulation of lobbying is not, it is not. Work on the drafting of the law had taken place, the draft law had even reached the Saeima, but it stopped several years in advance. Although there is a regulatory framework for lobbying in a number of countries, there was no one from which Latvia could take an example. However, we were also in a relatively optimistic situation: we had a study by the Saeima's own analytical service on the regulation of lobbying in Europe so that Members could get acquainted with what is currently in place and what has been done in this area. And here, thank you to the political groups - 'development/for!' and CPV LV-, which led to this study. There was also support from the Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption Commission and its management for our work. We also had the opportunity to analyse errors that did not allow Latvia to adopt the law in advance. Overall, its errors were due to the fact that there had not yet been a desire and understanding of how the law could improve and change the situation. There was no such understanding for the public, nor for representatives of business and NGOs, nor was it for politicians. In words, previous Saeima did not have the often called political will. I would like to say that this time this key element is - we have the political will to adopt the law on lobbying. This has been demonstrated by a working group composed of representatives of all seven political groups and independent Members, which has worked for more than two years (with breaks affected by co-opandemia). And I want to say thank you here to Juris Rancāns, Raimonds Bergman, Aivars Gaidāns, Andrejs Judine, Ivan Klementyev, Edvins Schnore, Mārtiņš Stein, Lubova Svekovs and Normunds Gunn, as well as Mārtiņš Staķis, who also started his work in the committee when he was a member of the Saeima. Knowing how timid you are. We have gone through the family in other areas, this cooperation we have in the working group, I think, cannot be underestimated. Thank you very much. Thank you also to other colleagues who have participated in many discussions on the regulation of lobbying and also at international conferences organised by the Saeima. Thank you to the Speaker of the Saeima, who supported this work. When creating the law, we also paid great attention to the process so that the law of lobbying itself would be made to the best standards. We worked with representatives of state institutions and NGOs and regularly consulted with major business organisations, NGOs, ministries and other stakeholders. A year ago, in February, we had a public consultation on the basic principles of the law. I hope that in the Saeima, too, it is other times that we will be using public consultation to an ever greater extent. During the development of the draft law, we have gathered a range of frequently asked questions which, as usual in Latvia, are often expressed in the form of accusations and disbeliefs. In my opinion, the brightest ones I would like to answer are as follows. First. Lobbying, it's corruption. Why do you write the law about it at all? And indeed, research by political scientists shows that a sufficiently significant part of the Latvian population sees lobbying as corruption, so - illegal use of power for their own benefit. In the course of the development of the previous law, NGOs also argued with business organisations, saying: well, we NGOs are not those bad lobbyists. We have called this law, the draft of which we are looking at today, the law of openness of interest representation - not only to draw attention to clear rules without corruption, not to mention the word “lobby”, but also because we want to defend our interests in Latvia as much and as much as possible. All interests are legitimate, and decision-makers must listen to them and make a decision, weighing the interests as much as possible... and the interests of society as a whole. That's the second recommendation. So what you're doing there for so long, you have to set up a register of lobbyists, and everything will be clear. In front of our working group, Lithuania was an example. Lithuania passed such a law - as one of the first in Europe! - already two decades ago, 20 years ago, but there were only a few lobbyists in the lobby register, but everyone else was lobbying, influenced, representing his interests outside of the law. Therefore, our task was to establish a comprehensive regulatory framework that would not stand on the foot of only one such register. We should have developed a framework that ensures that decision-making is more open in nature, but that does not impose excessive and pointless bureaucratic burdens. We have chosen three pillars for public disclosure. The first is the transparency of decision-making (including the consultation that was carried out by Members of the Saeima in drawing up their proposals). We have had one accusation from the public - that you don't know what's behind it. So, no more mailboxes... Let it not be that a Member cannot explain what was then actually written, but would also not recognize who brought him the idea. Now, I think it's time to tell you where we're going, because we need to go for ideas from those who actually do things we're writing about. We don't have to be ashamed of it, we don't have to hide it. The second pillar of openness is the openness of the activities of public officials by reporting on meetings with interest representatives. And thirdly, openness about the interests themselves, about their real beneficiaries, their members of organisations and other information; it would help to understand how wide the range of people who come and defend certain ideas. So that it can't be hidden. At first, we looked at Ireland's experience in the operation of such a law, but reports from individuals have an important role to play there. The working group was concerned that in Latvia at this moment it could undermine the aim of the law – to represent more than now and more widely. Therefore, of all the countries and institutions that operate under lobbying regulation, the option we are proposing is the closest to the practice established by the institutions of the European Union. And the third argument that we have often heard and that I want to mention today is that you will still not be able to control all of them, so why do you write that law? It has to be said that this bill is not about thought police, nor about monitoring ideas. Good ideas arise in conversation, and please continue to do so, but this draft law marks the main principles and marks the scope for participation in law and decision making in a transparent way. The law, if it could be said, lights up in a room where there may be a lot of black cats, but maybe not, but maybe only sometimes there are. And as long as we do not have such principles of action, we do not have these lights, and so it is more difficult to light those who engage in outright illegal activities and who deserve the attention of the law enforcement authorities. So we have developed the basic principles, we have received conceptual support from the responsible authorities in public administration, as well as from the cooperation partners. For the first time, we still have two readings: one can be clarified and it can be made clearer. We consult and continue to consult about the specific performance and how the law can be better understood. Everything will then be spoken out and challenged; what remains must be simple and clear. And we certainly need to maintain the "big picture" of ensuring the transparency of the process of representation of interests, promoting public confidence in interest representatives and public authorities, and ensuring fair and equal opportunities for all stakeholders to engage in representation of interests, as it has been recorded in the definition of the purpose of the law. I would really like the Latvian society to see the process of creating this bill and the way forward in the Saeima corridors as an example that, working together, we can ensure meaningful changes for the benefit of society as a whole. In 100th year of the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia and the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia it is a valuable work by 13. The family can make - next to other good works that... We've already prepared... and let's do it again this year. I call for support to be given to the draft law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U13	Thank you. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U14	Dear President, Honourable Members! Thank you to Mrs Voika for such a beautiful presentation... and so long. The law contains many beautiful phrases, many beautiful words. Its phrases are often aroused, but now this is an election year, so that there will be not only one or two such laws. I think we're going to see many more laws. But now, concretely. I was surprised by Article 6(4) that a royalty representative should not be allowed to agree... on a royalty that depends on the result achieved. Well, that's an extremely interesting idea. Have you met a person in your life - whether it's a manager of a big company or, let's say, some individual producer - who would hire a person and say, "You've been working, but I'm not really interested in your results!" Is that so? I mean, there's a lobbyist coming, and he's written on his shirt: I didn't think about the result, I work for one or two loaves of bread. Mrs. Voika, do you believe that? What then do these interest representatives need, of which there will be no benefit? Well, the industries... Here I looked at which sectors most frequently come to the Saeima: say, tobacco dealers, alcohol producers, alcohol dealers, gambling representatives. There's always... these laws are changed every year, sometimes several times a year. Time, conditions, age and so on are changed. It is clear that these are perhaps the main sectors in which these lobbyists have to achieve some results. How can one recruit a person who has no contact, who is not legally-oriented, and who does not depend on the result?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Will this law change anything? It won't change anything... except that... There is a pre-election time... I will give you one example. We have a city like Jurmala, which is actually architecture at European level... wooden architectural monument. Everyone knows it's a two-storey architecture - just like many cities in Northern Europe... Let's say, Visby or someone else. There you can't come and put a historical building some concrete bowl. But go and walk through Dzintars and Bulduri, where there are these beautiful two-storey wooden houses. There are five-storey, as I said, reinforced concrete boulevards everywhere. And no law has already been violated. Interest representative lobbyist... And here, by the way, a good article has been written - that the interest representative has... Well, as he does not violate the laws that exist internally, he does not break, let's say, some norms... Clearly, he's not offending. A good interest representative shall ensure that the relevant council changes the construction order. A regular interest representative who has contacts or, for example, a relative (brother of the wife of the Chairman of the Council or someone else) will achieve this result at a much better level than the one who will come with the shirt on which it is written: I worked as a breadman and did not think about the results. You can't write that shit in the law! I think Latvia has a lot, many lakes and a seashore of 500 kilometres... and there are many construction companies that have now submitted all kinds of projects, that we should, let us say, cut off the pine trees into the stairs, and it is clear that they will achieve these results. They will accept people with influence, pay them a decent royalty. And if they have to choose between someone who, as I said, has communication, influence and perhaps even a relationship, and one who just wants a lobbyist... then he will choose the one who has these connections. In general, however, I am, of course, in favour of these draft laws. I think it can be cut off by two thirds in a calm way, and you have to throw out all this fragrantness and coercion. And, of course, it's better to have someone who doesn't lie... I will give you one example now. I meet a Member who, as if in my sense, was quite fundamental, Latvian, he was walking on all kinds of legional events. And I say to him, “Listen to me, but why did you vote in favour of a typical fraudulent law - the allocation of 40 million to an organization that does not primarily represent the people to whom the property belongs?” It does not represent, let us say, the real interests, but rather it is more connected with the fact that there is once again some fraud, in my sense. And you know, this Member protects and does not really know what to say, and he says: “We will be thrown away from NATO.” Well, it's about that. You understand what this is about. ‘ That is a security issue. Latvia... we will be thrown out of NATO." So a man has to lie about Latvia being NATO, because, for example, a Latvian entity in Afghanistan saved one American entity from being taken captive. The Latvian unit was closest, and its intervention helped... From the siege... in fact they took the American soldiers out of the siege. Several newspapers in the United States wrote about this. And then... I always ask what is more important: to lie that our security issues will be threatened if we do not pass any law, or to say honestly that a lobbyist with the inscription “West Bank” came to me. You understand! And the Members will not have to roar anymore, they will not have to lie, say, before society as a whole. So I think... we support this law. And it'll be much better than... if a Member goes... And there's a lot of... for lunch and meet with some other secretary and cultural attachés from different embassies, and they say: know, we can never officially tell you what you have to do, but it would be good if you were there to support us and try to change something there, and so, and so... I myself have been Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Commission in two terms, and, you know, I have often said: thank you for your suggestions, but I guess we will remain at the point of view that we consider necessary. Now you don't have to lie, you have to come up with an honest lobby and you don't have to come from the embassy, you have to invite the Member for lunch, but you can send, for example, a "Western Bank" or "Intertrade Bank" or... I even admit that the shirt might have an inscription: "Friend of the Avena"... Why did I mention Avenue? Because when I had to do things about... Russia wanted the European Union to grant it a visa-free regime, let's say, because there are about 300 thousand friends of Putin in London, a family, an oligarch, an oligarch... Some 300,000, according to the British authorities. Well, so they can drive without a visa... Let's say, kids are studying at school... At that time, it was almost promised that Russia would be granted this visa-free regime - provided that they would also settle their relations with the Baltic States. And at the same time, it was very important for Russia to conclude this border agreement. Well, and then Aven was sent, who met with our former President, met with some party presidents, and he made it clear and clear, for example, to the Chairman of the People's Party... You'll say, how do I know? There was such a magazine for the Otkritij Gorod time... and there it is described. I read the Avena interview. He says - we told Latvian politicians that, when taking this decision, the finals of the Silk Road - will be Riga, cargo will arrive in the port of Riga, all will become millionaires, but soon settle these things. And that's it. We know how this lobbying took place, for example, on the issue of the same return of Abrene. Doors of the dune... And shouting said, well, it's so irrelevant to us... In the end, the Constitutional Court adopted a decision that Abren is not part of Latvia at all and no referendum of the people is required there. And now it's all chicky bucks. I'm from Suharenko, I'm from Avena, I'm from it and I'm from this. And nobody has to lie, and Members do not have to roar. I call for support. But, of course, I recommend that the commission throw away their inevitability. I think 70 percent of this draft law can be thrown out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U15	Thank you. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U16	President-in-Office. Colleagues! I, too, listen to the speeches made by this rapporteur and Mrs Voika, including by Mr Kirštein, try to understand what will then be what will change after the adoption of this draft law, and whether its examination - that of what the public is hoping to expect - will result in something meaningful after the adoption of this draft law. You can't disagree with what Mr. Kirstein said. In my opinion, this draft law is more election-oriented than a system-oriented one. If I am asked today whether the decisions made during this parliamentary term, a series of decisions taken, would become clearer after an appropriate organisation had registered in a register and would be aware... I don't think so. And I mean, "Development/About!" There is already a group that today is the most slippery of this issue, but the greatest shadow of doubt is precisely over this group... on what interests are actually represented in this group. I very much remember an issue which was a very, very sharp one and which has been the subject of a debate for many years - that was the introduction of a so-called deposit system. And when this bill went to the Saeima and was close to the last reading, it was already clear that under the slogans that there will be a competition and there will be something else, we... He could already... It has already become apparent that Latvia will choose an old-fashioned solution after all the competitions, which nobody really chooses, and will try to tell you that it is new, modern and that we have achieved a great deal. And I did not vote on this draft law at the time because it was suspected that it would really happen, and that was the case. We can see now our deposit system... We are unique with the following deposit system: all countries are trying to abandon it, we have introduced it - now! Society faces challenges, people do not understand how the whole system works. Will the Upmals be cleaner from bottles? Well, doubt. Probably not. In the end, it will be just one huge administrative burden, there will be a fantastic chance for a company to earn, but all this goes under the slogan - openness, competition and so on. And that is what happens in our Parliament. With regard to the question raised by Mr Kirstein, we cannot disagree. Or, for Development/About! being one of the main drivers in this question of resitution, Mrs Voika, who is now telling about this openness and all these issues, can really say today... Put your hand on the heart and say that this 40 million issue was led through the Saeima in a transparent, open, understandable process so that there would not be, as Mr Kirstein has already said, that then Members shout and talk about NATO and so on? Well, there wasn't... I cannot agree that there was an open, transparent process here. And there are a number of other such issues. We, too, today... Let's look at the issues I'm going to talk about later... It raises questions about how Members have come up with one or the other proposal. So this is... on my part... This law on the transparency of interest representation... we can support it, but I agree with Mr Kirštein that there is a need to get rid of the hypocrisy. I think there will be no problems - there will be no problems! - with those organizations in which, we all understand... with which we all work - with the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Employers' Confederation of Latvia, the Pensioners' Union, with a number of organisations there will be no problems, and no problems have been identified so far. But I would call on the legislative leaders to really look at themselves and honestly to answer: are you moving yourself today... which has prevented you from being open today, moving forward with proposals, draft laws or entering into one or the other position - to be already revealed today about how you have reached that position. We will be discussing the situation in Ķekava today, about gambling, where the Minister allows me to tell you half the truth about how he interprets what the Saeima has decided. This is what I will tell you in detail later, but there are these questions and there is a lack of openness. And will this law change the fact that someone will openly say - yes, we are defending this industry, this industry... This is not said, it is so sealed, and this law will not change it in any way. So that's... that is a question. Rather, I see in some places the moments of risk that I think I should try to solve, but at the moment, I see such a rather great duality from the promoters and authors of the idea. It's like... Now there are all kinds of sayings, how this could be reflected, I'll keep it with myself, but in one word, it's a little doubleness when we... that one of the largest representatives of the Saeima is currently moving... and tells about openness, transparency... We have been following these principles in practice for three years. And I think you shouldn't be the party association that bears these slogans. It could be... There could certainly be some others, but not you, because, in my view, the association of your parties under such words (see how you worked in the Saeima) cannot sign up. Otherwise, these are just empty words from you, because in practice we do not see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U17	Mr President, will it be enough for you to have a debate with seven minutes?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U18	Yeah, that's enough.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U19	The name of the Member, John Isal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U20	Colleagues, it is only a week since most of you supported the allocation of 40 million to three people with a dubious past. I hope you will understand that those Members who carried out this 40 million aperture last week... that your climbing today in the tributary of lobbying... openness is simply deplorable hypocrisy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U21	Mr Dolgopolov, would you have six minutes to break?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U22	I think so.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U23	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U24	Dear colleagues, Indeed, on the one hand, this law is only necessary to arrange the rules of the game, because it will not significantly change existing practices, because any legislation is a search for compromises between different interest groups. It happened, it happens and it will happen. Another thing is that this law can help unorganized interest groups to find their place in the lobbying process. This is the first positive moment in this law. The second positive moment is that, however, we call things in our own words and say that we have such a phenomenon and it is respectful, correct and true, and it can also be effective. Third. You don't have to exaggerate this law... overestimate it, because indeed, as I said, lobbying has happened and will happen. And here it will be very difficult to distinguish between interests and experts. Well, let's say, an example. We know very well that the association of financial institutions has changed its name over the years, even permanent representatives of the Saeima, who defended the interests of financial institutions here. And it was quite a success, because in principle they met not only with Members... participated in committee meetings. And that was a normal process. But what interest group is advocated by PROVIDUS or Delna? They're experts. And here it would also be very important to distinguish and decipher what experts are. Don't they play a separate interest group... representation in the Saeima or other public administrations or are however experts? This will also create some problems in implementing the requirements of this law. And naturally, I agree with the fact that the bill should be freed from hypocrisy, because it should be sufficiently specific and sufficiently understandable to everyone, because every person is the creator and defender of his or her own interests. It does not depend on whether or not he is working for Members of the Saeima. I call for support for this draft law, because the debate around it is a good thing to think about efficiency in legislative processes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U25	Thank you. Mr Rancan, would you have had three minutes of debate?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U26	Yeah, I think I'll do it. I just wanted a brief comment.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U27	Please log in electronically. Name to Member Juris Rancan.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U28	Yeah, what I mean... Colleagues, thank you, including on behalf of the Commission, I would like to say to this established working group about the draft law. I would like to point out, however, that this Parliament has succeeded in two years (in fact, it could have been faster, but there has also been such a longer debate in the working group) - over two years, Parliament has succeeded in what previous elections and governments have not managed to do in 12 years. So, thank you, colleagues, for your active work and your involvement. I would also like to say that I call on all my fellow Members to also engage and make proposals for the second reading. For my part, I would like to say that there will be a proposal that these lobbyists in the lobbying register will have to indicate, however, a specific draft law, a specific article of the law or a specific decision that has been affected or lobbying, because only this can achieve the aim of this law, so that the public can have clarity and transparency about the groups affected by what laws and decisions. And that all of this is publicly available, found, transparent and legitimate. Colleagues, thank you once again, and on behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at first reading and for being active in grinding this draft law at second and then third reading. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U29	Thank you. I closed the debate. But Mārtiņš Stein was delegated to speak on behalf of the Commission. Please, Mr. Stein, on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U30	Thank you for the debate. I invite you, then, to take part in second and third readings. I call for support for the first reading of the law on the transparency of interest representation.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U31	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on the transparency of representation of interests! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U32	The Commission decided to set one month, until 17 March 2022, for the second reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U33	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 17 March this year. Dear colleagues, it's time for a break. Members' registration is over. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U34	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! We continue the second remote emergency sitting of the Saeima on February 17, 2022 after a break. We continue to refer draft laws to the commissions and to the first reading. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law submitted by the Legal Commission “Amendment to the Law “On the Time and Application Procedure of the Entry into Force of the Renewed Civil Law of the Republic of Latvia, Part of the Right to Heritage and the Rights of Cases” be submitted to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. For a first reading, see the draft law. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiniņa – Egnere. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U35	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, This draft law and the next one on the agenda are related to the law “Amendments to Civil Law” adopted by the Saeima on 3 February this year. And given that this new regulation of the Civil Law will enter into force on 1 May this year, draft laws laying down transitional provisions have been drawn up for the application of the regulation contained therein. Thus, this draft law provides for the possibility to apply the new regulation of the Civil Law regarding the new forms of division of joint property already introduced in the cases in which the examination of cases by the court of first instance has not been completed by 30 April 2022, thus, as soon as possible – from 1 May 2022 – the court will have access to a wider range of legal instruments for division of joint ownership in disputes, so that it is possible to perform division of joint ownership in a manner that is as appropriate to the circumstances of the case, thereby reducing the possibility to use the system of division of joint ownership in such a way that it would violate the interests and rights of other joint owners. Thus, for example, the court will also be able to apply house-sharing as one of the forms of joint ownership. At the same time, this draft law ensures that the solution (sales by auction among joint owners), the application of which requires additional procedural regulation, will only enter into force at the same time as the necessary amendments to the Civil Procedure Law. Consequently, on behalf of the responsible Legal Commission, I call for support to be given to this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U36	Thank you for your report. Members have not applied in the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Time and Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of the Renewed Civil Law of the Republic of Latvia 1937, Rights of Heritage and Rights of Cases”! Please, let's vote! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for consideration of the proposals and the time limit for consideration at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U37	On behalf of the Legal Commission, I ask for a deadline of five days for the submission of proposals, or 22 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U38	Thank you. So the deadline for consideration of the Saeima sitting... Sorry, deadline for the submission of proposals - 22 February this year. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law submitted by the Legal Commission “Amendment to the Law “On the Time and Application Procedure of the Family Rights of the Renewed Republic of Latvia’s Family Law of 1937” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. We are starting to examine this draft law at first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U39	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, As I said earlier, this draft law, like the one before, is related to the transitional provisions of the regulation contained in the Civil Law, but this is directly applicable to legal proceedings in divorce cases. The draft law provides that divorce cases which have not been completed before 30 April 2022 should be discussed in accordance with the provisions of Articles 72, 74 and 76 of the Civil Law, which enter into force on 1 May 2022, i.e. divorce, if only one of the spouses agrees, is possible if the spouses are separated for at least one year in contrast to the three years previously set. Similarly, emphasising the will of individuals to deal with the matter of marriage, the right to decide on additional time limits for conciliation is excluded. The application of the new rules to all divorce cases, whether applied before the entry into force of the said amendments, will ensure equal treatment of the parties to the divorce cases. At the same time, in order not to cause a delay in the application of the new time limits and other conditions laid down in the Civil Law, it is established that the draft law shall enter into force on the same date as the envisaged amendments to the Civil Law, namely on 1 May 2022. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U40	Thank you. Members have not applied in the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On the Time and Application Procedure of the Family Rights of the Renewed Republic of Latvia’s Family Rights of 1937”! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U41	For this draft law, too, the Legal Commission asked to set a deadline for the submission of proposals - five days, or 22 February of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U42	Thank you. So the deadline for the proposals is 22 February this year. Ladies and gentlemen, the next item on the agenda is the report by the Bureau on own-initiative proposals submitted. Members Ramona Petraviča, Aldis Gobzems, Maris Možvillo, Ieva Krapāne, Karina Sprūde, Lubova Švecova, Ralfs Nemiro, Jūlija Stepanenko, Kaspars Ģirgens and Inguna Rībena have submitted a draft decision “On task for the Cabinet of Ministers to terminate Covid-19 certificates in the Republic of Latvia”. Are Members opposed to examining this draft decision at this sitting? Please log in. Name... Krišjānis Feldman has therefore objected. Are Members opposed to putting this draft decision on the agenda for the next sitting of the Saeima? And this issue - which is on the agenda of the next sitting - has been referred to by Member Ramona Petraviča on behalf of the rapporteurs. Please log in... The name of Member Ramona Petraviča.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U43	Dear President, Dear colleagues, This draft decision provides for the immediate withdrawal of the Covid-19 certificates and the abolition of all restrictions on persons without this certificate. The Government's future action plan Covid-19 in the context of the exit from the pandemic is unbalanced, completely unnecessarily complex to such an extent that it seems to be designed to prevent its introduction from being carried out, to the benefit of the unvaccinated, and it is already late, not even implemented. I will illustrate a small part of the shortcomings. As of 1 March, certificates will no longer be needed in retail trade, but they will be required in activities of collective arts, sports events, including training, beauty industry and elsewhere, where, of course, people also have exactly the same contact as in retail trade. The division of people and discrimination continue again. And it really seems that someone is enjoying his power and power by humiliating others. According to the Tourism Crisis Management Committee, Latvia's economy loses five to six million euros every week due to a pandemic and, of course, certificates. These funds are to a large extent in neighbouring countries with much more advanced policies, such as Lithuania and Estonia, as Latvian companies only work in this sector with 30 percent capacity. The current deadline for vaccination certificates for workers without a certificate will have to be dismissed for half a month, then, at the end of the withdrawal period, to pay compensation and to take back to work... The employees are completely unaware of what will happen after 1 April. Medicals and teachers are confused. No one can answer them. People without vaccination certificates will probably not stop receiving services denied by the government, but will simply go to Lithuania or Estonia. This has even been recognised as an initiative to coordinate policies with neighbouring countries, but for unknown reasons, it is now being set aside. The conduct of the parliamentary debate on the abolition of Covid-19 certificates indicates that their use no longer meets the previously agreed objectives. In such a case, action must be taken immediately. If those mistakes seem not to be convincing to colleagues in the coalition, then I will mention two more fundamental reasons for immediate withdrawal of the Covid-19 certificates. Firstly, they are and will now be discriminatory after the introduction of the planned incentives. The division of society and discrimination under the emergency cover have been based on the assumption that certificates reduce morbidity. The United Kingdom, Denmark and our own experience shows that vaccinated people suffer from the same levels of disease and intensity as unvaccinated ones. The recipients of the certificates shall no longer protect the unvaccinated. However, despite these facts, the Minister for Health is saying that the certificates are being extended because many people are ill and cannot go after a booster vaccine, but a booster vaccine should not be given to people who are ill and have just become ill. And this is a clear indication of the pressure of the government to get a booster vaccine. From what time do those who are ill have to run for vaccination? This is misleading society and trying to delay the time to withdraw certificates... as well as psychologically trying to influence people and destroy them. It is violence against our people and deliberate harm. Secondly, the impact of certificates on the epidemiological situation is very small, but the economic situation is negative. A decision has recently been made in the United Kingdom to reduce self- isolation from ten to five days, as the disease rate has proven to be independent of vaccination. There, of course, too, the use of certificates has been abolished. However, for unclear reasons, Latvia is preparing for the autumn wave. These and the above examples point to a global trend towards a proportionate response by countries to the pandemic situation. We must follow this example. And for too long the government's message - quickly shuts up, quickly opens up - has not been taken into account. Therefore, please support this proposal and withdraw the certificates immediately.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U44	Thank you. One Member has spoken for. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft decision “On task for the Cabinet of Ministers to terminate the use of Covid-19 certificates in the Republic of Latvia” on the agenda of the next meeting! Please, let's vote! On - 38, against - 43, refraining - 3. The draft decision is not on the agenda of the next sitting. Do Members have proposals to hand over this draft decision to one of the commissions? Please log in! The name to Member Ralph Nemir. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U45	Dear President, I call for this draft decision to be submitted to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U46	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption the draft decision submitted by Members “On Task for the Cabinet of Ministers to Stop Using Covid-19 Certificates in the Republic of Latvia”! Please, let's vote! On - 38, against - 45, refraining - 2. The draft decision is rejected. on the agenda: Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. The draft decision “On the approval of Sanitas Osipova as a judge of the Supreme Court”. The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U47	Dear colleagues, At the sitting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 8 February, the draft decision “On approval of Sanita Osipova as a judge of the Supreme Court” was reviewed. On 28 January, the Commission received a letter from the Supreme Court on the fact that on the basis of Article 62 of the Law of the Republic of Latvia “On Judicial Power” and the opinion of the Senators of the Department of Civil Cases of the Senate of 26 January on the suitability of Sanita Osipova for the office of a judge of the Supreme Court, the candidacy of Sanita Osipova was nominated for approval in the position of a judge of the Supreme Court without limitation of the term of office. The Chief Justice of the Supreme Court Aigars Strupišs informed members of the Commission about the fact that the Department of Civil Cases of the Supreme Court highly appreciates the previous experience of a candidate for the position of a judge, in particular in the Constitutional Court. The Chief Justice of the Supreme Court believes that the approval of the candidate would provide a very tangible contribution to the work of the Department of Civil Cases and the work of the Supreme Court in general. The candidate's scientific performance is also highly appreciated. Members of the Legal Commission assessed all the information received, the candidate was heard. Members of the Commission have voted in favour of the draft decision by a majority of seven Members in favour and one Member against. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call on Sanita Osipova to approve as the judge of the Supreme Court. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U48	Thank you for your report. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U49	Very respectful Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, We also looked very carefully at this in the Group. And first of all, we would also like to join in... We very much appreciate the competence of Sanita Osipova and her achievements so far. However, there are questions that are of concern to us, and I will try to explain why. The rapporteur also mentioned in his report that the candidate's scientific performance was highly valued. And if we look at this scientific work, it's really... but the dissertation theme about the rights of national cities... and other issues that have been in various publications by Mrs Osipova mark completely different areas of law, other specialisations, not civil matters. Of course, this raises questions in us why this choice and Mrs Osipova decided to go in that direction. But by assessing further and much more in-depth and consulting with legal experts, we conclude that its field in the Supreme Court, where Sanita Osipova intends to operate, is the field of civil law, and the fields of civil law are governed by the Civil Law. And the Civil Law has five parts: the first part... So there is an introduction, an inheritance, an obligation... case law and family law. And family rights are those that I will wear a little more on, and they are also the marriage institution, adoption and other issues that not only cause wide discussion here in the Saeima, but we also see in the case law of the Constitutional Court in a mixed manner. However, a decision has been taken on how this question... is or is not correct. And there is, of course, a broad debate between liberal and conservative forces. However, the Supreme Court is in a way... It's equal... A pretty big force... and the Supreme Court can also create interpretations, explain the norms of the legislator - also those that have not yet been reviewed by the legislator to the end or on which wide discussions are taking place in the Saeima. And it is precisely this family question where we think a conflict could arise between the Saeima and the Supreme Court, perhaps giving some definitions or something else. We cannot know this, but we foresee that there might be groups of residents who would like to use this institution of the Supreme Court, knowing highly respected judges, highly respected judges, liberal views on this issue, and could try to use this court to achieve the desired outcome of the court. And, in our view, this can lead to this court becoming confused on matters of parliamentary competence, from which we should all avoid as much as possible. It is not a story of Sanita Osipova's competence as such - she is indeed an excellent specialist, and her place in the Supreme Court is definitely to be found, but, in our view, not in this department, because it can lead to this conflict that I have already mentioned - the decisions of the Supreme Court, which may well be those that interfere with parliamentary competence issues and do not correspond to either the opinion of the majority of Parliament or the opinion of the majority of society, and create an inevitable conflict at the very root. Colleagues, we would like to prevent this conflict already now, even though the judgments of the Supreme Court are in accordance with the spirit of the Satversme, so as to conform to the legislator's understanding of the marriage institution. And at this point in time, we do not see how Mrs Osipova could be supported in this particular position, so our whole group will also vote against Mrs Osipova. But we are calling for this issue to be looked at perhaps more in line with her previous work experience, her work practice, and despite all these positive opinions that have been, we are also looking at it politically in a way, we are looking at the work that has been carried out so far, and we are seeing that this conflict is very likely. We don't want the Supreme Court... turns into a kind of marriage institution for groups of people who have... Unconstitutional. I call for this draft decision to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U50	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U51	Dear President, Honourable Members! Throughout my agreement with the previous speaker, I would also like to express my respect, because I think Mrs Osipova is intellectual, educated, and we could even have no objection to her specific opinion, let us say, on the issue of the recognition of a woman as a man, but I think there is, as the previous speaker has already said, a fundamental choice of what or what direction we support. In the United States, for example, a Republican elected president usually chooses a more conservative judge of the Supreme Court, but democratic parties usually choose a judge with liberal views. And because there is an odd number, depending on which presidents have been in power for longer, there is the formation of a Supreme Court that either supports, for example, homosexual services in the army and marriage, or does not support them. The countries are the same. I wouldn't have any objections, but yet I would recommend actually the Saeima... like... not even conservative, but perhaps people with a central view also refuse to support Mrs Osipova. I think it would be much better for her to work as a professor at one of our liberal universities, where there are already very many people with specific beliefs who are now trying to correct, say, language and declare that the word "negger" cannot be used or there is something else and not "Russian" but "Russian man". I therefore have an objection to it when I read several interviews in which Mrs Osipova said that different types of families should be protected. So, not as rural people have imagined a family as described in the Civil Law that is formed by marriage, bloodshed, or birth... becoming a brother or sister or adoption, but, see, in various ways. The second extremely interesting statement, which I drew attention to, was that part of society represents a cult of natural life, where the shadow side is to give up the scientific achievements adopted by generations, thus threatening public safety and health, often even human life. This is also a very interesting statement, because those scientific achievements... You know that scientists once thought that the earth was flat, then it changed, and today scientists said: “If you wear masks, you will not be able to infect anyone. ” Then it turned out that everyone is infected. The researchers then said: “You can carry these viruses and get sick, but you can get them easily. ” Then it turned out to be a serious illness. Then other scientists came and said, “Yes, you get sick, but you will be healed and will not die.” Then it turns out that he also dies. Science is changing. But when it comes to the marriage institution, I recommend that everyone read the recently written book “The Hidden Life. ...’. Kaspar Irbes Diary (1927-1949) The book describes one person who regularly works with pederastium and who has hundreds of partners – if not thousands – and he runs this pederastium in the park under trees, shrubs, seaside sand, in a station on a bench in different periods, changing several partners every week... with German officers during the war, with Soviet occupation soldiers, with Soviet officers... Why am I saying that? With some partners I read here, he has a relationship that he has been in contact for years. So I understand that it is the family that Mrs Osipova recognises, which does not represent the outdated natural cult of life, but represents the modern, European, progressive, European value-based. And since the Supreme Court will also have to look at 25 couples who may have registered a marriage abroad, the request that they are also a full family, I think it is better, however, that the Supreme Court stays with this outdated, natural way of life cult. And I really recommend either at Stradins University or at the University of Latvia to work, because there can't damage anything anymore. I therefore call on my fellow Members to abstain, at least those who are central, not just conservative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U52	Name of Member Inese Lībiņš-Egner. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U53	Hello! Latvia is a legal state, and in the legal state there is no ideologies for law. Today we decide to approve the judge of the General Jurisdiction Court - the Supreme Court - cassation instance - the Senate. And here in the debate, now that he has been going and debating all the women's judges who had to be approved in office and has made their assumptions and their views on life, today we have heard assumptions about the qualifications of a lawyer. Then I would like to say to those who are not lawyers that all qualified lawyers can be judges. The fact that lawyers have chosen to specialise in their academic life is not an obstacle to being full lawyers with legal qualifications. That's one thing. And the other thing. I would just like to say that Section 4 of the Law “On Judicial Power” clearly defines equality of persons before the law and the court. All persons shall be equal before the law and the court; they shall have the same right to protection of the law. The court shall be adjudicated irrespective of the origin, social and property status, racial and national origin, gender, education, language, attitude towards religion, type and nature of occupation, place of residence, political or other views. In the Senate, which is a cassation instance, that means that cases are judged on the appropriate material, procedural issues at first and second instance, all senators of the case are considered collegially... three senators with the exception of an enlarged composition or a joint sitting of the Senate. None of these issues are dealt with alone. It is also an argument for what colleagues previously, perhaps without knowing this one, have put forward. The other thing. Date of Birth: a) 1 January 1966 b) 1 January 1966 c) 1 January 1966 d) 1 January 1966 d) 1 January 1966 d) 1 January 1966 d) 1 January 1966 d) 1 January 1966 d) 1 January 1966 d) 1 January 1966 d) 1 January 1966 d) 1 January 1966 d) 1 These couples have applied directly to the Department of Administrative Cases of the Senate. Such disputes - relations with the state - are not dealt with by the Department of Civil Cases, but by the Department of Administrative Cases, on which Mrs Osipova, through such a vote of the Saeima, does not even stand as a candidate. And finally. I understand that elections are coming, but looking at the way of different countries, the countries of the European Union, and standing up for the rule of law, democracy and human rights, I am convinced that we as the Saeima will be able to hold what is very important in Latvia. We are a rule of law, we are a democratic state. And we know that the judiciary is independent. I really hope that we will hear more and more from this parliamentary troupe that the independence of the judiciary is what we, every Member, defend and which we will not break. Thank you, colleagues. I call for support for the election of Professor Sanita Osipova in the Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U54	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U55	Yeah, thank you. You know, colleagues, when the Constitutional Court intervened in the competence and jurisdiction of the Saeima, it was a turning point, which is now being evaluated. And when I represent a party “Latvia first place”, which represents conservative central values and wants to implement a very conservative policy... will not support the candidacy of Sanita Osipova. Reflecting on what Mr Valaiņš and Mr Kirštein have said, I fully share their assessment and their position and also believe that values are important, political values are important. And to such policy progress the Constitutional Court and now also... In an attempt to inflate such experience others, in the case-law of the Supreme Court... I cannot support this, so I will vote against it and ask also conservatively-thinking colleagues not to support Mrs Osipova's candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U56	Name to Member Juris Pucem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U57	The President of the sitting is very respectful. High honourable Members! Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. I was not going to talk about this draft decision, because in fact, very rarely there is a debate at the Saeima sitting about the appointment of a judge to be approved. I think it is very right that the Saeima, in its decision on what to approve as a judge, is relying on the judiciary, and in this case too, the judiciary... evaluation according to the law “On Judicial Power” has taken place. The Supreme Court... Thus, the College of Civil Law has evaluated the candidate, recognised as appropriate, and this candidacy is led by the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court according to the methodology established by the Council for the Judiciary regarding how it should be done. Of course, I understand that certain colleagues, such as Alexander Kirštein and Viktor Valainis, consider themselves to be higher in the assessment of qualifications... Professor of Law, Doctor of Law, Sanita Osipova, in this regard. I think this is wrong. The principle of independence of the judiciary has gradually strengthened in Latvia. And it is this question that the judiciary itself gives an opinion on the candidatures that is very important in guaranteeing the independence of the judiciary, so that certain political and ideological considerations do not do. I, of course, express my personal satisfaction that Member Kirštein has met Dr. Lipsa's monograph on Hidden Life. ...’. It really is a very valuable scientific work. It is a pity that our Member, Kirstein, has managed to see only certain features of this work, but we probably all have our own interests, which we are focusing on when we read one or the other scientific work. But overall, it has nothing to do with the evaluation and approval of a qualified candidate for this post. I am pleased that the Legal Commission has supported the further promotion of this candidate. I will also vote today in favour of Sanita Osipova as a judge of the Supreme Court. I call on others to do so, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U58	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U59	Hello, colleagues! I have just heard the passionate speech of my colleague Jur Puce. And, of course, I had a clear conviction that the expert on the issues of the rule of law or the pass, the pass of car parks, spoke about how the rule of law should be implemented in Latvia. That surprises me: this in-depth knowledge. Why the pass-through specialists should not determine who will be judges in Latvia - there are, in fact, two reasons. The first and most important reason is that Sanita Osipova allowed the Constitution to translate what it wasn't there. We all know what this is about. Sanita Osipova crossed that fragile border called the mandate. And the other thing. I remember a television show that asked Sanita Osipova a question about people... how it will be - the division of people. And I remember that funny expression of face, saying that it is not mandatory to go to the theatre for everyone. And I think it's the real nature of Sanita Osipova if we talk about the ability to analyse what is legal and what is not legal. And these two questions are crucial, much more important than the speech of the pass expert Puces when deciding whether or not to appoint Sanita Osipova as a judge of the Supreme Court. I will vote against.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U60	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U61	I'm just gonna make a little addition. Mrs. Lībiņa–Egnere probably does not know the saying of Karlis Slane that, unfortunately, many Latvians who receive good education do not have a lasting value of traditions and knowledge in the first or second generation and often the new ideas of the West (where he thought Marxists) in one ear, in the other, and they are critically unable to select grain from the chaff. What do I mean by that? Now the story of life is very simple. Let's tell you what girl in the field... I'm not talking here specifically, but... I'm going to generalize now, including the university teachers we have now. Imagine a hard-hit girl living in the countryside near Grandma, raving carrots, as a great-bodied graduate finishing her university and getting a Master of Soros or some other grants, leaving for Lund University... There's a lot of people here... or to Cambridge in social sciences or law. And there she says that the family is a relative concept, native is a relative concept, now there are genders, LGBT, Black Lives Matter, everything is relative... and so on, and so on. The highest measure is man; each pervert is normal. Of course, this girl cannot critically choose... she has a distorted perception, but she is Western, but it has been accepted in the West. And, you know, the birth rate and the family must be destroyed, because the green course of life is mostly destroyed because many children are born in the world. So that's all right. Mr Pouce might not even be able to respond, because he probably did not hear the fact that in countries of old democracy such as the United States, the United Kingdom, France, not after education, but in the opinion of life - whether he is conservative or liberal. And I would advise Mr. Pouce to listen more carefully and not to talk silly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U62	The name to Member Ralph Nemir. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U63	Thank you. Indeed, there are now Members of the position who may not have spoken so much about these high moral principles before, and at a time when we appreciate these issues, we see what decisions we have then taken here in the Saeima, when we split, fixed pensioners, whose EUR 20... one is being supported, the other is not being given, people are being laid off... For example, these moral principles are slightly disappearing, perverting somewhere, but these moral principles are now appearing. This, of course, can be explained: it is a question of the so-called voting machine, when these moral principles are not taken into account at all. The Constitutional Court has assessed the applications, it will evaluate the applications submitted by the persons whose rights are fully oppressed and restricted. And this story of “one law - one justice for all” does not pass criticism and in some cases is even grossly violated. That is why, of course, it is very important to assess the candidate and this is happening at the moment. I believe that there is no need at any time to make any accusations to colleagues who are doing so, precisely because the debate is an integral part of the Saeima, and those Members who want to express their views do so, and it is very right that they are doing so. This question remains in Saeima's verbatim reports and is a very important component. The fact that there are several draft decisions, draft laws and decisions on the appointment of officials - in the context of its evaluation. Here we are in a political organisation, in a decision-making organisation. In the decision-making body, these opinions, thank God, are separate and have been taken from the people, because the people have given us a mandate to decide and to debate these issues. Colleagues, this principle of "one law: one justice" is often violated and, accordingly, for the judiciary, it is, of course, very important that it should also be evaluated in the future. People who have been laid off and who are no longer able to take care of so much of their families may now look and wonder at what high morals we are talking about in some cases... in context with appointment of a judge, but not in context with such decisions... as a voting machine here sinks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U64	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U65	Member of the President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, I think, for the first time, I remember (or perhaps a little bit on another subject), was about not approving a judge or about dismissing a judge... I do not remember exactly, there was this kind of debate in the Saeima. I must remind you that, according to the Constitution, the judiciary is to be regarded as an independent power, as a result of which... of course, which concerns choice of judges, it is the requirements of the law that must be taken into account. I think a judge... one of the judges who has participated in the writing of any specific possible ideologically unacceptable judgment of the Constitutional Court... it's according to... none of the laws can be understood as a disqualifying event. Of course, we have the right, anyone can criticise, just as the government can be criticised or the Saeima can be criticised, we can, of course, also criticise the Constitutional Court, but in Latvia, the constitutional facility is the one that the Constitutional Fathers have established, and I would say it is quite good. In this regard, speaking about the independence of the court, the Members of the Saeima have access to these documents, including the letter of the Senate of the Supreme Court, which states that the power of the courts, in more correct words, the general meeting of senators of the Department of Civil Cases of the Senate on 26 January of this year prepared a opinion on the particular candidacy and its suitability for the position of a judge of the Supreme Court. And in this case, on the basis of the decision of this general assembly of senators (which was not the decision of one person, but the decision of the general meeting), such a recommendation has been sent to the Saeima - to confirm -. In this case, the question is whether... Perhaps the judiciary has misjudged something, but I suspect that (see also the Legal Commission) it is absolutely clear that the law has been respected in this process. See... For example, one of the new conservative values is the rule of law and democracy, and it means that we are acting within the framework of the law, we believe that the rule of law is the one that ensures the preservation of statehood, the sustainability of the state. It cannot be taken away from other values either, but where there may be conflicts, it makes us come up with, say, intellectually conservative solutions. And I have to remind my dear colleagues, who are a little... I am ashamed of this, as a conservative person, rather quickly moving towards such an expression of marginalism in the Saeima, without embarrassing to use openly the anti-Semitic and homophobic expressions of the Saeima in the debate. Conservativeism, however, also means good manners and respect for each other. That's the number one. Secondly. In this case, I call on you to support the recommendation made by the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia for reasons of judicial power, independent judiciary, and not to insulate or, more precisely, for marginal, ideological or homophobic reasons, or for any expression that has not liked... What kind of person... do not traumatize the constitutional system of the Republic of Latvia... and the order in which it is to be done. I call for intellectual work to ensure, including in conservative spectrum, that we provide adequate solutions, including maintaining the concept of family and marriage. And the sooner we do it, the better. These concepts should be maintained in our usual - conservative - sense. In this case, the judicial authority has ruled. I call for support for this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U66	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U67	The President of the sitting is very respectful. Dear colleagues, I'll start with... The first point. If our legislation says that candidates, candidates for judges, are approved by the Saeima, then obviously there is a place for discussion about candidates. Not just a place, but also an obligation. If some colleagues who spoke about the independence of the judiciary believe that the role of the Saeima is only to automatically seal candidates proposed by the Council for the Judiciary or any other institution of professionals, I call on these colleagues to submit appropriate amendments to legislation so that the Saeima no longer engages in the approval, re-approval and so on. Within the framework of existing legislation, we need to talk about this. The second point. I do not question in any way and, of course, I cannot question the professional qualifications and skills of the candidate. If the Council for the Judiciary specializes in... If professionals from the area of justice believe that such a professionalism exists, who am I to question it? But I ask the following question: what criteria do we have to follow when approving or not approving a particular candidate for a judge? In my view, the symbol of the rule of law - god-Temid (as you, colleagues, remember... those who know) are blind and weighing. Why is she blind? What does it represent? It symbolises that when decisions are made, their weights weigh “for” and “for” for, justice does not take into account, does not look at who the concrete actors in the process are: what is their sex, what is their faith, or whether they are... What is their skin color, what is their ideological belief. This is a symbol of justice, of the rule of law. Therefore, in my opinion, when deciding on candidates for judges, we must not only assess their professionalism, but also their impartiality, and in no case should we elect as judges people who look at the rule of law not as a destination, but rather as an instrument for exercising their faith or ideological belief. That's the main thing I'm looking at. And I was quite shocked by the expression of this particular candidate... I ask you to combine the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U68	Please, the times of your debate are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U69	Thank you. ... the statement of more than 60 000 people who, ‘due to’ decisions taken by the majority of the Saeima, were no longer able to work because they refused to receive vaccination for such or other reason. I am not talking now, my fellow Members, about whether this decision was correct or not. Undoubtedly, most of the Saeima considered this to be right. Perhaps they believed that such dramatic steps would motivate other people to vaccinate, and maybe they think that perhaps, thanks to this, there have been enough people vaccinated to offset or justify everything that they have suffered from both the more than 60,000 people and the economy... and so on. I understand that there is a right to think like this; this is, of course, a subject to be discussed. But the fact that Sanita Osipova did not come to it as it should first come to a lawyer, a lawyer of high assay, comparing for and against, in order to understand whether this decision was in the public interest or not... In this situation, Sanita Osipova, as has already been said, compared this publicly with a theatre visit. This does not indicate a serious approach, it does not indicate that this candidate is really blind and impartial in the eyes of those people who come to court in search of justice. Therefore, I am not convinced that Sanita Osipova will really use this instrument, which is the rule of law, in an unbiased and objective manner, without any ideology. Unfortunately, this expression to Sanita Osipova has paid my voice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U70	The name of the Member, John Isal. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U71	Good afternoon! In my opinion, over the last year, the public statements of Judge Sanita Osipova are more evidence of such political knowledge, ideological knowledge than legal knowledge. If Sanita Osipova wants to engage in politics, legislation within the competence of the legislator, then the Saeima elections will take place this year, and Sanita Osipova, I accept, has all the opportunities to stand on the list of a liberal party, whether it be “PROGRESSIVE” or New Conservative Party, or Development/About! , but judges should nevertheless be politically neutral. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U72	The name of the Member, Lubov Svedov, for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U73	Colleagues! I was shocked and surprised by the reasoning and position of the New Conservative Party regarding the assessment of the situation. But it is probably not a matter of wonder, because the draft law of the Ministry of Justice “Law of Civil Union”, which the New Conservative Party, the nominated Minister of Justice, obviously ideologically means that this party should unite with Development/About! , because their values do not differ significantly in terms of both today's speech and action, by directing specific draft laws. I very much hope that voters will appreciate the values and real works that the new Conservative Party defends, represents and directs in the Saeima. Please do not support (Sound interruption.) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U74	The Internet is weak. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Armand Kraus. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U75	Hello, colleagues! ( Pause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U76	Once again, the Internet problem is being reported by technical assistants. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U77	I mean, Mr. Krauze... Something was wrong with the sound. Maybe it'll work out. For my part, colleagues, I would like to say that the Greens/Earthers Union is based not on political visions, including, but mainly, on legal experts. We have a number of highly recognised legal experts in a party association, with which we also took this issue very seriously in substance. And here's the main thing... Once again, I would like to emphasise our position. So whatever Mrs Lībiņa-Egneres said, you can't agree. Legal experts also divide into specialities, however, as do doctors - some are operating in the lungs, others are operating in the heart, and of course both are doctors. In this case, which I have already mentioned in my speech, Mrs Osipova, however, is not an expert in civil matters. This should be noted. What we see these risks and these risks are still there - Civil law is family law, the marriage institution, other issues on which the Saeima still thinks are quite clear, but various legislative initiatives are also being turned into the air. And let the situation that the Supreme Court begins to interpret the substance of these issues, which rights the Supreme Court has, even definitions can be expressed on behalf of the legislator... we see risks that the Supreme Court could begin - with Mrs Osipova's participation - to mix on this issue, which is a purely parliamentary issue. I say this not only in my own opinion and in the opinion of my fellow Members, but also in consultation with a number of legal experts. Therefore, colleagues, if we want to have a respectful debate, then we are also debating... there was no sentence from other people about these arguments, so I am calling for a vote against.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U78	Thank you. The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville. Member Krauze has not yet returned after the participants... Is it back? It's back. I'm sorry! In that case, the name of the Member Armand Krauze. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U79	Yeah, very good. Thank you. I apologise for what happened. Head of sitting! Dear colleagues, I would not want to debate the professional qualities of Sanita Osipova in a very detailed and detailed way here today. I think that my colleague, Viktors Valainis, said very precisely what the opinion of the Group of the Greens/farmers would be. I would like to put more emphasis on what we are doing today and remind you that the judiciary is really independent and there is a need for the rule of law in Latvia. The way we debate today, the way we vote today, is legal. This is legal and it is our duty whether we vote 'no' or we vote 'in favour'. That is why I am very surprised by some of our Members who are giving the impression that there could be this interference in the judiciary. It seems to me that some of our colleagues have already said that this is an interference in the judiciary and that we only have to vote in favour. In that case, the Members of the Saeima - all a hundred - we are one hundred head of a large flock of sheep. But it's not. We are allowed to vote, and that is our duty to vote against. And that's legal. I do not understand this false conservative position expressed by Feldman, even in the direction of the Constitution, that it might be that those who will not now support... that it is interference with the judiciary and that it is something against the Constitution. These are totally unfounded claims. I think that, in fact, this day and at this point, all those who have ever voted for the New Conservative Party as a conservative force understand that it is not a conservative force, a political force that is likely to unite with progressive ones in the near future. And that's why my call is to choose judges (especially for a post that is not just a judge in a district court, but in the Supreme Court!) , to vote with conviction, to vote according to the oath that we made when we took office and to remember who our constituents are and what our constituents want. And that is why I call on all conservative-minded Members not to support Sanita Osipova and her approval as a judge of the Supreme Court today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U80	The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U81	Thank you for the floor, the chairman of the sitting. I will speak more about this process of choice - as we choose and vote in favour of officials. Already this morning, my fellow Member, Ralph Nemiro, pointed out that this remote action does not allow quality decisions to be made, does not allow for a balanced debate on these issues, and at the very beginning of the sitting we saw this poor work, which we also saw under the leadership of the Saeima's e-Sitting, because there were various disruptions on the agenda, which we observed in the first part of the sitting, as well as... At present, a number of colleagues recognise that they cannot join the system. I have real concern at the fact that this electoral system, which we are now carrying out remotely, although nothing prevents us from fully acting in the face and taking decisions in the face - that this system is currently creating huge tugs throughout the decision-making process and also contributes to the very poor quality of this appointment and voting of officials. I call on my colleagues, however... Although I have nothing against the person we are talking about at the moment, I will vote 'no' because I do not accept such a decision-making procedure. This merely shows that we are working in a low-quality way. I invite the Saeima to go back to sittings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U82	I closed the debate. On the presence of Members. Members are connected and Members are responsible for internet connection when they work from private Internet sites. After this productive debate, I give the floor once again... I ask Member Valery Ageš I to speak on behalf of the Commission. I ask you to translate into this debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U83	Dear colleagues, There is nothing to add on behalf of the Commission and I therefore call for my opinion to be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U84	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the approval of Sanita Osipova as a judge of the Supreme Court”! Please, let's vote! For - 40, for - 29, for - 16. No decision has been taken. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the State Border Guard”, third reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Mārtiņš Steins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U85	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Colleagues! The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the State Border Guard” prior to the third reading. No proposals have been received. I call on the Saeima to support the draft law, because the commission supported it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U86	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Border Guard” in the third, final, reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau officials’ retirement pension law”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Normunds Gunna. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U87	Hello, colleagues! In its meeting of 8 February, the Social and Labour Affairs Commission examined and prepared for the third reading draft law “Amendments to the Law on Service of Officials of the Office for Prevention and Combating Corruption”. One was received at the third reading - the proposal of the committee responsible, which states that the time limit for drafting regulations related to amendments is extended for a month. The proposal was supported by the Commission. I call on the Saeima to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U88	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U89	I invite you to support the draft law on amendments to the Law on the retirement pensions of officials of the Office for the Prevention and Combating of Corruption at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U90	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Service Pensions of Corruption Prevention and Combating Office Officials” in the third, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendment to the law on the detention of detained persons”, third reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U91	Good afternoon, colleagues! No proposals for the third reading of the draft law were received. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U92	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on the law on the detention of detained persons in the third, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Consumer Protection”, third reading. Member Viesturs Liepkalns on behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U93	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined and prepared for the third reading a draft law “Amendments to the Law on Consumer Protection” (No. 1179/Lp13). I would remind you that the draft law is designed to establish the level of consumer protection for the purchase and supply of digital content and digital services that are not in conformity with consumer rights and thus contribute to a higher level of consumer protection in the digital field. In total, nine proposals were received and examined by the Commission for the third reading of the draft law. Let's start looking at them. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is a editorial proposal which was also agreed with the parties concerned. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U94	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U95	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is also editorial. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U96	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U97	3. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. In September 2021, the new Law of the Bank of Latvia was passed, which adds the Financial and Capital Market Commission to the Bank of Latvia. Moreover, since Article 24 of that law refers to the Financial and Capital Market Commission, it is proposed to replace it by ‘Bank of Latvia’ and to replace the term ‘financial and capital markets’ by ‘financial markets’. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U98	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U99	4. - a proposal from the committee responsible. This is a technical proposal, since the Commission also reviews in parallel the Law on Electronic Communications, which states in paragraph 8.1 of Article 70 what load data can be requested from an electronic communications operator by the Consumer Protection Centre. Consequently, in order not to create an error when the new Electronic Communications Act enters into force, the proposal proposes to delete this reference and to include the rule in this draft law. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U100	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U101	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The relevant provision of that law is, in essence, the right of the consumer to submit an application to the seller concerning the quality of the service. The proposal provides for a shortening of the wording of the second reading, with the exception of the terms "digital content" and "digital service" as the corresponding Directive of the European Commission does not restrict itself to these terms. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U102	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U103	6. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. This is related to the transitional provisions and provides for the addition of point 39 of the transitional provisions in a new version. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U104	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U105	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It provides for the addition of points 39 and 40 of the transitional provisions in a new version. This proposal was partly supported and incorporated in 8. - the Commission's proposal. And 8. - a proposal from the committee responsible, which...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U106	Members agree with the Commission's view on proposal 7.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U107	And 8. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It provides for the addition of points 40 and 41 of the transitional provisions in a new version. This proposal was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U108	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U109	9. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The law shall provide for its entry into force on 15 March 2022. The proposal was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U110	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U111	Colleagues, we have examined all the proposals submitted to the Commission. The Commission has supported the adoption of draft laws at third reading. I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U112	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote for the third, final reading of the draft law on consumer protection law! Please, let's vote! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Waste Management Act”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Gatis Zamurs. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U113	Hello, head of the Saeima sitting! Hello, colleagues! In the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, we have examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Waste Management” (No. 1313/Lp13) and we have moved it to the first reading. The draft law provides that sorted bio-waste will cost 20 percent less than unsorted municipal waste. This will contribute to changing the habits of the population and to a more active sorting of waste. The amendments will increase the amount of waste to be recycled and reduce the proportion of waste that is disposed of each year in Latvian landfills. In the Commission, we supported the draft law, so I also asked the Saeima to support the adoption of the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U114	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Waste Management"! Please, let's vote! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U115	The deadline for submitting proposals is 22 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U116	Thank you. So the deadline for the proposals is 22 February this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Municipal Council Election Law”, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Viktors Valainis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U117	Very respectful Head of the sitting! Colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Municipal Council Election Law”. The draft law aims to address the long-standing problems. In particular, persons in custody whose declared place of residence does not correspond to the place of detention are not entitled to participate in municipal elections. This problem has existed for a long time. There is also one active claim in the Constitutional Court, where this issue is assessed. However, over time, we have developed and have now started to operate an institution such as the possibility of voting by post. This changes this situation significantly and also enables these persons to participate in elections according to their declared place of residence. It wasn't so far. This, of course, requires these amendments to the law, which have been prepared by the Ministry of Justice. In the Commission, we are also planning to talk about other groups that may be in a similar position. This is the case, for example, for those in hospitals who are not in the declared place of residence on the day of the election. The Commission dealt with this issue and unanimously supported the adoption of draft laws at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U118	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Elections of Municipal Council” at first reading! Please, let's vote! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U119	We will wait until 17 March for qualitative proposals to improve the draft law. So the deadline for submitting proposals is one month.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U120	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 17 March this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Dace Rukšāne–Ščipčinska. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U121	Hello, colleagues! We work with Law No. 1315/Lp13 - Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media. This draft law was passed to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs by decision of the Saeima and upon a proposal of the National Security Commission. The draft law is designed to ensure more effective monitoring of the operation of the service on demand, providing the National Electronic Media Council with the right to decide in certain cases when a decision has been taken to prohibit the provision of the service on demand and this service is provided without notification to the Council or the service provider cannot be identified, to decide on the restriction of access to the service on request. It should be noted that on-demand audiovisual services have developed rapidly over the last few years and these services are expected to be increasingly developed and used. What are these audiovisual services? For example, they are TVNET and Delfi TV portals, which are already registered as on-demand services. The NEPT already has the right to launch an administrative procedure or to impose a penalty, for example, on the provision of a post-demand service without notification to the board, but where the service on-demand service cannot be ascertained, the board does not have the possibility to carry out an administrative infringement procedure effectively, as the person to be brought to justice is not known. In practice, this means that it is difficult to ensure fair competition. At the same time, on-demand services are operated by service providers that have declared their activities and those that are acting without notification and are not subject to statutory obligations, restrictions and prohibitions. It is imperative that work is continued to address this issue as effectively as possible. On behalf of the Commission, I call on all parties concerned to submit their proposals for a second reading of the draft law. First of all, however, I call on you to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U122	Thank you. Let's start a debate. The name to Member Boris Cilevič. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U123	Thank you, President. I would like to emphasise once again that, in my view, this approach is, in principle, wrong. We are trying to regulate today's technology and modern media market by yesterday's methods. In fact, it means that all service providers should register, but today's market is completely different on the Internet, and the state can never have the capacity to register everyone. And the restrictions and prohibitions mentioned by the honourable rapporteur relate to content, regardless of who or how it is offered. A similar situation is, for example, tax. Really a lot of taxes - and more and more! - go to global platforms, but we do not require these platforms - Facebook, Google, YouTube and so on - to register in Latvia and pay taxes here. No, we are looking for other - global - solutions to global problems, such as digital tax and so on. But with regard to their control and monitoring, and so on... We are still living in the 20th century. I have a question for the honourable rapporteur: what will happen if, for example, Netflix refuses to register or does not make a notification? We will block Netflix, as envisaged by the amendments tabled? Or YouTube... YouTube has long been not a sharing platform, it offers paid services on demand, and so they also apply to YouTube. So, colleagues, I see only one single result in adopting such rules - in fact, the board will have the right to stop (selectively!) any service provider who has not registered... all over the world... of those hundreds of thousands that currently offer content that is available in Latvia. And it is not possible to implement it for everyone. So if someone doesn't like... It can be very easily knocked down, punished and so on, but it is a bad legislative practice. I call on you not to support this draft law and to think about solutions to today's problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U124	Thank you, Mr. Cilevič. I think we need to think about a break at this point. We will continue the debate on this draft law after a break at 13:30. Registration of the presence of Members. The registration of Members' presence is over. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U125	Dear Members, Honourable Members! We are continuing the examination of the agenda of the second remote extraordinary sitting of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 17 February 2022 after a break. On the agenda - draft law on Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media, first reading. We have started the debate at first reading. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Ritvar Janson. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U126	Hello! Why is the draft law necessary, what does it say? In practice, the National Board of Electronic Media has found that on-demand service providers who have not submitted a notification to the Council for the provision of a service on-demand service, even after an administrative penalty... submit to the Council a notification of the provision of this service. There have been cases when the provision of a service on demand is not interrupted, and a situation arises, when both service providers who have declared their activities in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Law on Electronic Media and those who are acting without submitting a notification to the Council, and they are not subject to the obligations, restrictions and prohibitions laid down by the Law on Electronic Media. In such cases, on-demand services are provided not only without complying with the statutory rules for the establishment of a post-demand service, but also without providing information about their actual beneficiaries. Therefore, there is also no security about the genuine intentions of service providers. In parallel with those official media that have to comply with all the requirements of the law, an autonomous information space without any obligations, including without obligation to comply with the requirements of the law, is created. In order to avoid such practices, these amendments to the law are made. I call for support for the bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U127	Debate... Mrs. Schvekov, please apply in time. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U128	Thank you. I just wanted to say that I'm at the Saeima and if there's any disruptions in the Internet connection, then in essence... I'm in the office, in the Saeima. But when I talk about this draft law, I share what my colleague said, what Mr Cilevič said, because he is sufficiently competent in this area and, accordingly... on technological development and technological solutions. I see that in this proposed amendment to the Law on Electronic Media, this is time like a greeting from the supervisors to the so-called Free State Television. I am not a fan or follower of this television, but I believe that strengthening censorship and enhanced control even more without public education, without informing the public, is more the direction towards, let us say, creating a state image that is not too democratic and not too modern. What do I mean by that? There must be different views, and there must also be the right to express them in accordance with today's... at the same time. If public media do not fulfil their respective functions or if they do not have sufficient competence and quality to perform their functions and tasks, the public will be asked for other types of information, other types of client, including other forms of communication or socialisation. I assume that, with enhanced controls and sanctions, the objective that the institution in question wants will not be achieved. In general, only tension in society and public attitude towards public administration, towards public institutions... of which could suffer very, very significantly, in my opinion. And another moment. I do not want such amendments to be directed in any way in the future towards information and views expressed by political opponents on social networks or on different digital platforms, in order to develop these ideas and interpretations. I will therefore vote against this draft law, and it seems to me that the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs ( emphasising the word "human rights") has in fact turned into a commission on censorship, punishment and persecution cases. Consequently, I do not support the future progress of this draft law and call on progressive, democratically-minded people not to support this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U129	We are continuing the debate. The name to Member Boris Cilevič for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U130	Thank you, President-in-Office. I really regret that we do not somehow have such a substantive discussion on this very important issue. I cannot agree with what Mr Janson said that those non-registered service providers, and therefore those who have not submitted a notification, have no obligations or restrictions. No, restrictions are imposed on content regardless of who distributes that content on a platform and on what basis. For example, child pornography. It would be naive to hope that those involved in the distribution of such content will in some way make a fair declaration, register and so forth. No, no. Other methods should be used to combat such very serious infringements. The same applies, for example, to incitement to hatred or to the propaganda of war, and so on. It is simply misleading to expect us to force everyone to register and then, as we say, we will know everything and will easily be punished. This will not be the case, because those who actually distribute illegal content (regardless of how illegal it is) - they will, of course, avoid, they will, of course, change... make full use of modern technical capabilities to avoid responsibilities. That is the situation today. So it's such an illusion that we will achieve something. We see that, in order for such methods to really effectively combat unwanted content, really very undemocratic methods must be used. We know the experience in Turkmenistan, we know the experience in China. We see, for example, in Russia, that several platforms and also software distributors are now subject to the so-called landing requirement. So register there in Russia to be able to legally work in this market. But if we really want to be a democratic state, we need to look for another possibility: international cooperation in cases of genuinely serious abuses and so on. I very much expect at least a commission... We will indeed invite serious experts, as well as foreign experts, because this problem is not just a specific problem in Latvia. All democracies are now faced with legal and legitimate restrictions on freedom of expression, causing increasing resistance and increasing problems in their implementation. But this easy path will not bring a result. I fully agree that there is a problem. This unwanted, prohibited and criminal content is being distributed, but we need really effective methods to combat it, taking into account modern technology and the current situation. That is why the SASCAN Group will not support this proposal, and I very much hope that we will have a substantive and professional discussion on this very serious issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U131	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, Mrs Rukšāne-Šchipčinskas... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U132	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U133	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media". Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U134	The deadline for submitting proposals is 22 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U135	So there are no other proposals. The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading shall be 22 February this year. Colleagues, before going to the next draft law, I would like to remind you once again that if you are on Saeima premises and you have any problems, either with a network connection or with the devices placed at your disposal, please contact the Saeima Administration and you will immediately be given all the necessary assistance, and the chair of the sitting will find out that such problems exist. If you remain silent about this, we simply cannot identify such problems. So if there are any problems, please contact the Saeima Administration - about everything that prevents you from working properly in the e-Family. We are continuing with the examination of the draft laws. On the agenda - Draft Law Amending the Law on Budget and Financial Management, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhena‐Beeken. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U136	Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting! Colleagues! The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission examined the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Budgetary and Financial Management’ (No. 1278 Lp13). The amendments are necessary as the Competition Council’s legal status is changed by amendments to the Competition Law. The Competition Council shall become an institution of direct management under the supervision of the Cabinet of Ministers. It is therefore necessary to adapt the procedure for applying for an annual budget according to the legal status. The draft law under consideration provides for the incorporation of this procedure. The Commission was supported before the first reading. I call on you to support this too.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U137	Thank you. Members have not applied in the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amending the Law on Budget and Financial Management! Please vote mode! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U138	Thank you very much for your support. The time limit for submitting tenders shall be 5 p.m. on 3 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U139	No other proposals were received to the Bureau. The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading shall be 3 March of this year. The next item is the draft law on the market in financial instruments, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U140	Dear Chairman and colleagues of the Saeima sitting! The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments (No. 1274 Lp13). The purpose of this draft law is to exclude from the regulation of the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments regarding the convocation of shareholders' meetings and the public disclosure of decisions taken at the meeting and to include it in the Commercial Law. At the same time, special procedure for publicising the notice of the meeting of shareholders, draft decisions and decisions adopted at the meeting in the official system of storage of regulated information shall be maintained. The law is due to enter into force on 1 July 2023. We examined in the Commission and this draft law was approved before the first reading. That is why I call on you to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U141	Thank you. Members have not applied in the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments"! Please vote mode! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U142	Thank you for your support. The time limit for submitting tenders shall be 5 p.m. on 3 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U143	No other proposals were received to the Bureau. The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading shall be 3 March of this year. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Electricity Tax, second reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Jānis Cielēns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U144	Hello, honourable leader of the Saeima sitting! Dear colleagues, In its meeting of 9 February, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission examined draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electricity Tax” (No. 1284/Lp13) for second reading. For the second reading, one was received: a editorial proposal from the Legal Bureau. The objective is to align the terminology in point 5 of the second paragraph of Article 6 with the amendments to the fifth paragraph of Article 7. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U145	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U146	The Commission supported the draft law at second reading. On behalf of the Commission, I also call on the Saeima to support the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U147	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electric Power Tax”! Please vote mode! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U148	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is five days - 22 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U149	Consequently, the deadline for the third final reading is 22 February this year. Thank you. The next item is the draft law on Geospatial Information Law, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U150	Hello! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Geospatial Information Law”. The aim of the draft law is to extend the functions of the Latvian Geospatial Information Agency by establishing that the agency participates in the development of state policy in the field of geodetic, cartography and geospatial information. The project also intends to clarify the provision of the Law on Geospatial Information, which defines the institution that represents the Republic of Latvia in the institutions of the European Union and provides information to the European Commission on the implementation of geospatial infrastructure in the Republic of Latvia and on further development of the geospatial information infrastructure of the European Community. The project also provides for harmonisation and for the establishment of common rules for all specialities in the field of measurement, by providing for delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers to improve the field of geodesy of certification bodies and to approve the price list of its fee service. This draft law is supported by the Commission. On behalf of the Commission, I also call on you to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U151	So Members have not applied in the debate. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law on Geospatial Information Law! Please vote mode! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U152	I call on colleagues to take the opportunity to submit proposals for this draft law by 24 February.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U153	Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 24 February this year. Thank you. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Road Transport Act, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ralph Nemiro. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U154	Dear President, Yes, that is what we are working on with the draft law on "Amendments to the Road Transport Act". In fact, the draft law initially provided for a very wide scope, but the Commission divided the draft law into two draft laws. In particular, this draft law concerns the transport of passengers by order. Within the Commission, the draft law was approved before the first reading. On behalf of the Commission, I also ask the Saeima to support it at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U155	Thank you. In the debate, Members have not applied. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Road Transport". Please vote mode! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U156	The Commission will wait for the proposals within one month, i.e. until 17 March.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U157	Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 17 March this year. Thank you. The first reading of the draft law on the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Chile on air traffic. On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Member Krista Baumane. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U158	Dear President, Dear colleagues and colleagues! We work with the draft law prepared by the Ministry of Transport and submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers No. 1318/Lp13 - “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Chile on Air Transport”. The agreement will establish a legal framework for regular air services between Latvia and Chile. The Agreement establishes the rights of airlines of the Republic of Latvia and of the Republic of Chile, sets out the conditions of commencement of scheduled air services and the terms and conditions of operation to be complied with by airlines of both countries when carrying out regular passenger and freight services between the Republic of Latvia and the Republic of Chile. The Agreement also provides for the application of taxes and duties, the mutual recognition of licences and certificates, the settlement of disputes and other matters relating to the execution of air traffic on a regular basis. The conclusion of the agreement will make it easier to start and operate flights to Chile. Provides an additional route and guarantees a level playing field. The draft law was approved by the Foreign Affairs Commission on 9 February this year. I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U159	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law on the agreement on air traffic between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Chile! Please vote mode! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U160	The deadline for submitting proposals for second reading is 10 days, or 27 February of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U161	Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 27 February this year. The next item is the first reading of the draft law on the Common Aviation Area Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part. On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Member Krista Baumane. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U162	Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law drawn up by the Ministry of Transport and submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers No. 1319/Lp13 - ‘On the Agreement on the Common Aviation Area between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part’. The draft law was prepared for adoption and approval of an agreement signed on behalf of the Republic of Latvia last autumn by the Permanent Representative of our country to the European Union. The agreement will be based on mutual access to the air transport markets of the Parties on a level playing field and uniform rules, including in the areas of safety, safety, air traffic management, social aspects and the environment. The draft law was approved by the Foreign Affairs Commission on 9 February this year. I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U163	Members do not want to debate. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on the Agreement on the Common Aviation Area between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part! Please vote mode! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U164	The deadline for submitting proposals for second reading is 10 days, or 27 February of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U165	The deadline for submitting proposals is therefore 27 February. Thank you. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the Fisheries Act, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Gatis Zamurs. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U166	Hello, head of the Saeima sitting! Hello, colleagues! We work with Law No. 1250/Lp13 - Amendments to the Fishing Law. We have received five proposals at the second reading of the draft law. 1. - a proposal from the committee responsible. In Article 22, first paragraph, the word ‘written’ shall be deleted. This means that the transfer of native fish species into natural water bodies will no longer require a written harmonisation of the Institute. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U167	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U168	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. In Article 22, paragraph 1.1, the word ‘written’ shall be deleted. This means that also imports of alien or locally absent species will not require a written authorisation from the Nature Conservation Agency. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U169	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U170	3. - the proposal from the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Artis Tomas Plšs. Provision shall be made for the case of administrative infringement of licensed fishing, crayfish and underwater hunting rules and of fishing without fishing, crayfish or underwater hunting cards to be examined by the State Environment Service or the Administrative Commission of a municipality. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U171	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U172	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Provision shall be made for cases of administrative violation to be examined by the State Environment Service regarding the violations referred to in Paragraph 5 and Paragraph 6 of Section 30 of this Law. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U173	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U174	5. - the proposal from the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Artis Tomas Plšs. This provides for the addition of new transitional provisions - 31. - paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: "The first paragraph of Article 31 of this Law shall enter into force on 1 January 2023." The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U175	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U176	We have therefore examined all the proposals in the draft law on ‘Amendments to the Fisheries Act’. I ask the Saeima to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U177	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Fisheries"! Please vote mode! It's not about 80, it's against 1, it's not. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third, final, reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U178	The deadline for submitting proposals is 3 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U179	So the proposals are due by 3 March this year. Thank you. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the law on detention procedures, first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U180	Good afternoon to all colleagues! The aim of the draft law “Amendments to the Detainment Procedures Act” is to extend the possibilities of contact between the deaf and the deaf, as well as minors, by providing for the right to use the video communication opportunity. The project also intends to clarify the regulation on the storage and circulation of seized money, taking into account the decrease in cash turnover in prison stores and other issues. The draft law addresses a number of important issues relating to the extent of the rights of persons in custody. One of them is related to the rights of the process promoter in accordance with the right provided for by the Criminal Law to impose restrictions on communication and meeting of arrested persons. The law provides that these restrictions are implemented in the prison of investigations regarding both detention and communications with other persons. Detailed arrangements for visiting the investigation prison and the transmission of information to the State Border Guard in respect of this type of person are in place. The draft law also provides for regulation of the rights of persons in custody while in the medical part of the prison or in a prison hospital; this has not been sufficiently clearly regulated so far. In addition, the draft law provides for additions to the telephone conversations and video communication conditions of the arrested persons, thus extending the right of access of the arrested persons. In particular, this right is expressed in more detail in the sense that it is established that, in addition to existing rights, the deaf and deaf are entitled to twice a month video communication for up to 30 minutes in the presence of relatives, spouses or other persons in a prison of inquiry. It is also provided to supplement Section 18, Paragraph 1, with paragraph 4 of the Law by providing minors with the right to use the video communication opportunity twice a month for up to 15 minutes in the presence of relatives, spouses or other persons in the presence of a representative of an investigation prison. It is also stipulated that, in addition to the rights referred to in Article 18 of the Law, the... Thus, the deaf and the deaf minors have the right to use the possibility of a video communication - without any limit - for a period of up to 30 minutes in the presence of relatives, spouses or other persons in the presence of a representative of an investigative prison, subject to the authorisation of the leader of the proceedings. Also, in order to improve the regulation of the law on the perception of communication, the draft law provides to supplement the law with a new Article 13.3 “Regulations on the conduct of telephone and video communication”. The draft law also deals with the issues of the movement of the arrested money, the provision of the arrested with clothing and footwear, as well as the regulation related to the operation of the investigation prison shop, as I mentioned earlier. In addition, editorial clarifications are provided to align the concepts used by the law with those used by other laws and regulations. In the Commission, the draft law was approved and I therefore call on the Saeima, on behalf of the Commission, to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U181	Thank you. Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the law on detention procedures! Please vote mode! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U182	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 17 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U183	Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 17 March this year. Thank you. On the agenda of the next sittings - Draft Law Amending the Law “On Specially Protected Natural Areas”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Gatis Zamurs. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U184	Thank you. As already mentioned, we are working on the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Specially Protected Natural Areas” (No. 1220/Lp13). We have received 11 proposals within the Commission. All of them are proposals from the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Arthur Tomas Plēšs, and each of them concerns the inclusion of a particular species in the list of several protected nature areas of Latvia 2000 - of European importance. And then let's start talking about these species step by step. Proposal No 1 provides for the addition of the species Lapkoku praulbalis to the lists of species of several natural areas. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U185	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U186	Proposal No 2 on the addition of the Small Swan species to the lists of species in several natural areas. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U187	Members support the proposal of the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U188	Okay. Proposal No 3: List of several species of natural areas... to be added to the list of species ‘Ošu plāvrabonis’. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U189	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U190	Proposal No 4 - to add the Spdiļķis species to the list of species in several natural areas. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U191	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U192	Proposal No 5 - to add the list of species of a number of natural areas to the list of species "Shift hook". The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U193	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U194	Proposal No 6 - to add the species “Sea raven” to the lists of species in several natural areas. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U195	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U196	Proposal No 7 - to add the species “Big gaura” to the lists of species in several natural areas. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U197	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U198	Proposal No 8 – to add the species Rubenis to the lists of species in the Nature Park Silene and in the Nature Park Age Forests. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U199	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U200	Proposal No 9 - to add the species ‘Medium’ to the lists of species of the Nature Park ‘Riegupe’ and the nature reserve ‘Sventāja river valley’. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U201	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U202	Proposal No 10 - to add the species Mežirbe to the list of species in the nature reserve “Sventāja river valley”. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U203	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U204	And 11, concluding, the proposal to add the species Little eagle to the list of species of the protected landscape area “Nīcgales meži”. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U205	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U206	Thank you. So we have examined all 11 proposals submitted for the second reading of the draft law. I ask the Saeima to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U207	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the second reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Specially Protected Natural Areas”! Please vote mode! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third, final, reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U208	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 24 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U209	Thank you. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 24 February this year. The next item on the agenda is the draft law on the e-Justice Sharing Solutions Platform, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Sandis Riekstins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U210	Hello, colleagues! At second reading, we will consider the draft law on the Platform for e-Function Sharing Solutions (No. 1205/Lp13). Nine proposals were submitted to the second reading of the draft law. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The intention is to change the title of the draft law by replacing the abbreviation ‘e-case’ with ‘electronic case’. This was probably the most widely discussed proposal, and the state language specialists were also involved. However, the Commission decided not to support the proposal of the Legal Office.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U211	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U212	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is envisaged that the title of Article 3 should be changed. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U213	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U214	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Article 3 provides for the deletion of the reference to the Law on National Information Systems. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U215	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U216	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is envisaged to clarify Article 7. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U217	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U218	5. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Article 8 of the draft law is foreseen to be supplemented. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U219	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U220	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is envisaged to exclude point 1 of the transitional provisions. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U221	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U222	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is envisaged to exclude point 2 of the transitional provisions. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U223	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U224	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is envisaged to exclude the second sentence of point 3 of the transitional provisions. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U225	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U226	And nine. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The time of entry into force of the law shall be specified. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U227	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U228	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support to be given to the draft law on the second reading of the e-Justice Sharing Platform.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U229	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on e-Justice Sharing Solutions Platform Law! Please vote mode! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third, final, reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U230	The deadline for submission of tenders shall be 22 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U231	So the deadline for submitting proposals is 22 February this year. Thank you. The next item is the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism and Proliferation”. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Atis Zakaistovs. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U232	Colleagues! In the Commission we saw and supported for the first reading draft law No. 1324/Lp13 - Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism and Proliferation. The draft law provides for supplementing the law with norms establishing the legal basis for the activities of the cooperation platform of supervisory and control institutions and the objectives of cooperation between the institutions involved in order to maintain an additional cooperation mechanism ensuring that from 2024 all supervisory and control authorities have a common understanding of the risks of money laundering and financing terrorism and proliferation and that adequate preventive measures are applied to mitigate these risks. The following institutions will be involved in the implementation of the project: Register of Enterprises, State Revenue Service, Information Centre of the Ministry of the Interior, Court Administration, PMLP, CSDD and Financial Intelligence Service. Please support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U233	Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism and Proliferation”! Please vote mode! For - 81, for - no, for - 1. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U234	March 17th.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U235	Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 17 March this year. Thank you. The next item on the agenda of the sitting of the Saeima is the examination of draft decisions. On the agenda - draft decision “On order No. 2 February 2022 of the Cabinet of Ministers 59 amending Order of 9 October 2021. 720 ‘Advertising the Emergency’. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U236	In its meeting of 9 February 2022, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption examined the order of 2 February 2022 of the Cabinet of Ministers, which amended the announced emergency order. Amendments to the Ordinance provide: firstly, employers do not submit a list of contact persons in the Centre for Disease Prevention and Control; secondly, a contact person’s family doctor is informed only if necessary in order to obtain a sick leave; thirdly, family doctor’s practice in the event of increased stress may not provide services that are not critical to patients. For example, if the practice of family doctors is very burdened with community sufferers, then you may not be able to make a statement... commission services for drivers and weapons... permits. In the Commission, having heard representatives of the ministries, institutions, representative of the Ombudsman’s Office, amendments to the order of the emergency situation, as defined by the Cabinet of Ministers, were found to be justified, proportionate and necessary in the particular situation. I therefore call for support for the draft decision drawn up by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U237	Thank you. Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On Order No. 2 February 2022 of the Cabinet of Ministers 59 amending Order of 9 October 2021. 720 “Advertising the Emergency”! Please vote mode! For - 55, for - 1, for - 16. Decision adopted. The agenda of the next meeting was the examination of the statement. On the agenda - "Declaration of administrative penalties 13. Member of the Saeima for the period from 1 September 2021 to 5 January 2022.’ Member of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications Arthur Rubik. Please! Mr. Rubika, we can't hear you. We can't hear you. We see you, but we can't hear you. We still don't hear you. Mr Rubika, you have technical problems with the microphone. Is the microphone on? ( Pause) Mr. Rubika... We can't hear you. Or the head of the commission... The Commission therefore wants to harmonise who can read the statement. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Mr. Rubika, are you okay with the microphone right now? Please join Member Arthur Rubik. ( Pause) No, no, no. Mrs Pakule, can you give us information on the communication on behalf of the Commission? Since it is time for a break - after five minutes - then, in my opinion, we can declare a break a little earlier. I very much hope that the Commission will either address these technical problems or agree on an agreement that can represent the Commission on this agenda. Only registration of the presence of participants. It's been a success. So let's keep working at 3.30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U238	Dear colleagues, We continue the second remote emergency sitting of the Saeima on February 17, 2022 after a break. On the agenda - examination of the notification. ‘ Notice on administrative fines 13. Member of the Saeima for the period from 1 September 2021 to 5 January 2022.’ Member of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications Arthur Rubik. Please! ( Pause) No, Mr Rubika, unfortunately we can't hear you. Please, do we have the head of the commission... Please... So the name to Member Vital Orlov. Please! Report from the Commission
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U239	Hello, dear colleagues! Do you hear me?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U240	Let's hear it. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U241	Communication on administrative penalties for Members between 1 September 2021 and 5 January this year. On the basis of Article 179, first paragraph, point 5, of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications shall submit information on administratively punished Members in accordance with the data in the Penalty Register between 1 September last year and 5 January this year. The following Members are called under administrative responsibility for the specified period of time: Christa Baumann. On 4 November last year, a decision was taken in Chapter Two of the Third Administration of the Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau on the violation committed in accordance with Section 32(4) of the Law “On Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Activities of State Officials” (on the violation of restrictions and prohibitions imposed on state officials by this Law, as well as on the performance of functions of a state official in a conflict of interest situation). A fine has been imposed. The Decision entered into force on 25 November last year. Aldis Gobzems. On 26 August last year, a decision was taken by the Order Police Department of Riga Centre of the State Police Administration on an infringement under Article 25 of the Law “On Meetings, Processions and Pickets” (on violation of the organisation and procedure of specified meetings, moves and pickets). A fine has been imposed. The decision entered into force on 18 September last year. Ilze Indrickson. On 6 September 2021, the Patrol Police Unit of the State Police Administration of Zemgale Region adopted a decision on an infringement under Section 55(7) of the Road Traffic Act (on speeding of authorised speeds between 21 kilometres per hour and 30 kilometres per hour with mopeds, motorcycles, tricycles, quadricycles, passenger cars and lorries with a gross mass not exceeding 7,5 tonnes). A fine has been imposed. The decision entered into force on 23 September last year. Janina Yalinsky. On 24 September 2021, the Patrol Service of the Patrol Police Division of the State Police Administration of Zemgale Region took a decision on the violation committed in accordance with Section 55(4) of the Road Traffic Law (for the violation provided for in Paragraph Three of this Section if committed in a place marked by the road sign “The beginning of the settlement” or by the road sign “The residential zone”). There's a warning. The decision entered into force on 13 October last year. Ralph didn't die. On 17 October last year, a decision was taken in the administration of the police of Riga municipality in Latgale on violation of the law “On Emergency and Exceptional Status” according to Article 21 of the law (on violation of restrictions or prohibitions imposed during an emergency or exceptional situation). A fine has been imposed. The Decision entered into force on 3 November 2021. Eric Pucken. On 7 September of last year, a decision was taken by the Patrol Service Division of the Patrol Police Office of the State Police Courland Region Administration on 7 September of the previous year on an infringement under Section 71, third paragraph of the Road Traffic Law (on driving in the dark hours of the day without being lit by an emergency light alarm with a vehicle for which one of the passing beams is not lit). There's a warning. The decision entered into force on 24 September last year. Eric Pucken. On 25 October 2021, a decision was taken in the Patrol Police Unit of the State Police Administration of the Courland Region Police Office on the violation committed in accordance with Section 51, second paragraph of the Road Traffic Law (on the non-use of a safety belt or a safety helmet, as well as on the transport of a passenger who has not secured or whose head is not protected by safety helmets). There's a warning again. It entered into force on 11 November last year. Julia Stepanenko. On 18 October last year, a decision was taken by the State Police Administration of Riga Latgale Region Police Department regarding an infringement under Section 50(1) of the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management (for failure to comply with the requirements of isolation, self-insulation, quarantine or home quarantine, or assembly, as well as the requirements of trade or other provision of economic services as laid down in this Law and the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers on the basis of this Law). A fine has been imposed. The Decision entered into force on 4 November last year. Lubov Schvecova. On 17 August last year, a decision was taken in the Patrol Police Division of the State Police Administration of Vidzeme Region Police Office on the violation committed under Section 55(7) of the Road Traffic Law (on speeding the permitted speed from 21 kilometres per hour to 30 kilometres per hour with mopeds, motorcycles, tricycles, quadricycles, passenger cars and lorries with a gross mass not exceeding 7,5 tonnes). A fine has been imposed. The decision entered into force on 3 September last year. Normund Gun. On August 21st of last year, a decision was taken by the State Police Administration of the Order Police Administration of the Patrol Police Administration on August 21st of the previous year on an infringement under Section 55, 11th part of the Road Traffic Law (on speeding the permitted speed from 31 kilometres per hour to 40 kilometres per hour with mopeds, motorcycles, tricycles, quadricycles, passenger cars and lorries with a gross mass not exceeding 7,5 tonnes). A fine has been imposed. The decision entered into force on 8 September last year. The notification does not include information about administrative offences of Members of the Saeima in respect of which penalties have been imposed in accordance with Chapter 19 of the Administrative Liability Act, ‘Specificities of administrative infringement proceedings in certain categories of cases’.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U242	Thank you for your report. Dear colleagues, On the agenda - examination of a request from Members. Opinion of the Panel on the request of Members Viktoras Valaiņa, Edgars Tatars, Ulda Augulis, Jānis Vucanas, Gundars Dūkes, Jānis Dūklavs, Māra Kučinska, Raimonds Bergmanis, Janīna Jalinska, Armands Krauzes Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Artis Pleš, about the absolute desire of the people of Ķekava to ban gambling organisation. On behalf of the Commission, Ivars Puga, Member. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U243	Welcome, ladies and gentlemen. Colleagues! The Panel examined the request made by Members of the Saeima Viktoras Valaiņa, Edgars Tatars, Ulda Augulis, Jānis Vucanas, Gundars Dauges, Jānis Dūklavs, Māra Kučinska, Raimonda Bergmanis, Janina Jalinska, Armandas Krauze, Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Artis Tom Ples, about the absolute desire of the people of Ķekava to ban gambling (No. 75/P13). The Commission, voting in favour of three, four against, four abstentions and two Members, has acknowledged that the request made by Members must be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U244	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U245	Very respectful Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, This issue is ultimately not simple. The request, which we prepared and submitted, also requested clarification from the Minister, and the Minister had also provided it, but these explanations do not hold back any criticism. Colleagues, to make you understand better... So we accepted the changes at the Saeima... The Saeima accepted and the President of Latvia announced amendments that give municipalities the right to restrict the distribution of gambling, identifying the places where they can and cannot organise them. I think we remember all the beginnings of this rule and how it all happened. Everything began at the moment when the government, in principle, left the municipalities alone to deal with this issue. So the government received all the income - practically all the income! - but the municipalities left basically only problems - all those related to security; all those related to the payment of various benefits to those citizens who suffer from this addiction, this disease. That's the result... Well, it is quite natural that citizens living in the municipality should have the right to decide on it. If all the problems are left on their neck, they should also have some room to influence it, namely to decide whether such a form of business is acceptable in the territory concerned. I think Members, both in the debate within the Commission and in the debate from the parliamentary tribunal, made it clear that this is the aim of this provision. What do we see today? Today, we see exactly the same composition of the same Minister, the same Saeima, but what we see in the process of examining this request - we see that the Ministerial and the Saeima's decision is beginning to be interpreted in a very strange way - saying that the Saeima did not want it at all. And the Minister clearly also in this response to the request makes it clear that the Saeima did not want it at all, the Saeima wanted to limit it so much and not completely prohibit it. Here the Minister begins to speak on behalf of Members of the Saeima - interprets the regulation adopted by the Saeima. And interprets it extremely wrong, on it is based on all future decisions that follow, by which he restricts this action of Ķekava Municipality Council. Undoubtedly, this issue will be challenged in the Constitutional Court. And what the Minister requires... The Minister calls for an evaluation. But, colleagues, the evaluation has taken place, and public surveys have also taken place. Well, you can say... right or wrong... whether there's enough number... and whether its survey is sufficiently respectful, but now it is, and there are more than a thousand people participating in it. I think this is quite respectful. In preparing and following this request, there is no doubt that the ministry and political leadership... and here they place greater emphasis on their political leadership... more wants to scare other municipalities through this, who are thinking of making similar decisions. And here too... in the request... The Minister does not, to the end, state what is then the set of documents he hopes to expect from the municipality, hopes to see in this decision. The Minister simply says that you have not assessed this. And in principle, with this motivation and this reasoning... Any decision of this kind taken by municipalities may be rejected by the Ministry, with the following reasoning: there has not been a sufficient assessment. In my view, it only shows how much political interest the political leadership of VARAM at the moment... interested in not allowing such issues to continue, let us say that the municipalities will not move this issue further. They do not make it clear what they are hoping to expect from those municipalities. Basically... Despite all this great capacity of VARAM, it is important to note that VARAM has never, never had any competence at all to assess the regulation of gambling. VARAM also doesn't value any regulations in the field of health - where to place vaccination offices or where to place some... the hospital network. It is, however, a fundamental competence of the Ministry of Health. MANY people will hardly be able to tell us where we will provide oncology services and where we will cut blind bowels. THERE is not to do that! And just as it is with these gambling issues. It's never, never had a question of their jurisdiction. However, this is the special case that I cannot understand for reasons beyond my grasp... and so far, I did not hear in the Commission what were the reasons why VARO suddenly becomes, so to say, unique on this issue - it is starting to be interested in the legality of such a decision and it is beginning to interpret the Saeima... in this same name, it's not some prehistoric... This is the decision taken by Members of the Saeima in this parliamentary term, which we... Remember the motivation behind the vote. More than that. We can also remember what... look at the verbatim reports that Members have spoken to this vote and every time this issue fell on the Saeima's agenda. Therefore, it seems to me a very strange and incomprehensible act by the ministry. More! They are unable to explain what the Ministry's vision should be, what a set of documents should be so that the municipality can still accept... They have said very generally: you have to assess, you have to carry out a socio-economic analysis. Colleagues, we have just seen how VARAM itself made an administrative territorial reform with an analysis that is 'two plus two is four', and on this basis a reform must be carried out! At that level, it was VARAM's decision that came to the Saeima, and this Saeima voted for it. The municipality which conducted the survey is currently carrying out an analysis of the impact of the decision. They are told that nothing is right, and your decision does not count, because the Members of the Saeima did not actually give you that right - there's something to limit here; you can only move from street to street... Approximately this is the thinking of the VARIOUS in this matter at the moment. That is why, colleagues, I think this request is absolutely in favour, it is in place. The Minister did not, in substance, provide an answer to the question of what action should be taken by the municipality to enable such a decision to be taken. And more. I think it is high time to start discussions about how to start compensating citizens in municipalities... also part of the tax... for those gambling players who do so on the Internet. This issue, too, is, in my opinion, quite topical. If we're talking about the actual gaming halls... And in fact, in relation to the gaming halls, the disaster that the population is experiencing is in two ways. First of all, safety is at stake. The local government police often have to watch these gaming halls overnight. The other thing that is - it is the fight against these socially negative consequences, which has always led to some amount of money being channelled in the municipality to help combat it. Now that this gaming hall... de facto they are now closed all over Latvia, the problem with gambling addicts has unfortunately remained. And people continue to play gambling on the Internet. Of course, at the moment, it is becoming invisible at the political level. However, during the examination of this request, I was contacted by a number of local government specialists who pointed out that, however, this problem is becoming more and more acute. Despite the fact that these gaming halls are closed... People apply for benefits based on the fact that their husband has played all the money or that the family budget has been played on the Internet. This problem is becoming more and more acute in society. I think we cannot pretend to be blind. So here we need to think about how we can deal with it. It needs to be taken seriously. In my opinion, this has not been done. Finally, however, I would like to call on my fellow Members, at least those who have ever fought for the existence of this rule in this law - in this case the UK Group - to be consistent and not to abstain from this vote, but to really support this request, because you understand very well that what I am talking about - it is true and indeed it is. The Minister has interpreted the norm adopted by the Saeima on his own, unfortunately not as the Saeima Members had discussed it at all possible levels, spoken... and what it meant. I call for this request to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U246	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mr. Pugas... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U247	Yeah. I would just like to add that this request may not be very precise, because it was the wish of the participants of the survey and not the absolute desire of the absolute majority of the people of Ķekava to ban gambling. There are 6,000 inhabitants in Ķekava, but about one and a half thousand participated in the survey. But in general... I would like to remind you that this request was rejected by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2362-U248	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for Member Viktoras Valaiņa, Edgars Tatars, Ulda Augulis, Jānis Vucanas, Gundars Dauges, Jānis Dūklavs, Māra Kučinska, Raimonds Bergmanis, Janīna Jalinska, Armands Krauze, Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Arthur Pleš, “On the absolute desire of the people of Ķekava to ban gambling”! Please, let's vote! For - 26, for - 27, for - 3. The request made by Members has been rejected. Dear colleagues, We have reviewed the agenda for the second remote emergency session on 17 February. We are going on a break for 15 minutes, then to continue working on the agenda of the Saeima meeting on 10 February. From our technical support team's request - to use this time by restarting your computers. This will make it possible to improve the quality of connection, hearing and so on. The registration of Members' presence is over. I am closing the second remote emergency sitting on 17 February 2022. We're going on in 15 minutes.
