ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U1	Ladies and gentlemen, let us begin to review the agenda of the sitting on 15 September this year. First of all, the amendments tabled to the agenda of the sitting. Members Krišjānis Feldmans, Sandis Riekstins, Jānis Butāns, Reinis Znotiņš and Evita Zālīte- Grossa are asking for the draft law “Amendments to Labour Law” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks for the law “Rail Baltica Project Law” to be included on the agenda of the meeting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Viktors Valainis, Uldis Augulis, Armands Krauze, Janīna Jalinska, Romanas Naudiņš and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the law on exceptional increases in energy prices”. Whether Members have objections to the draft law (inter-dependence.) ... Please call me! Let's vote for... I am sorry, so Members had applied to speak about it. ‘ For” had applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis. ( The ring of noise.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U2	Very respectful Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, If you have reservations that this issue is on the agenda today, then I have a duty to go and try to convince you from this platform that it would be right to look at this issue today. Ladies and gentlemen, we have seen in recent weeks that the Public Service Regulator is approving new and new tariffs, and these new tariffs, regardless of whether they are in Riga or in Daugavpils, Rezekne, Salaspils, Ķekava, Ozolnieki - in all these settlements these tariffs, which are submitted and which the Public Service Regulator confirms, are significantly higher than they were in early summer. Colleagues, this law - the law on measures to reduce exceptional increases in energy prices - was essentially drafted in June by the government on the basis of completely different information than it is today. If we look from today's point of view, the aid thresholds laid down in this law, from which we start to offer any kind of support to citizens, whether it is for the purchase of wood, whether it is for the purchase of chips, or it is for the heating of district heating where it is made with gas, are all substantially higher than the real demand of this day. If the existing thresholds, currently established by the law, are maintained, then... For example, in Riga, the capital, heating bills will increase at least twice in the new season. If we look at other cities, the increase without changing this law will be three times and even four times higher. Despite all these aid measures, which... It is as fine as it is: 50 percent relief for every citizen in different groups. In essence, this relief only starts at a certain threshold. We offer to reduce these thresholds so that they can be paid to a person, we offer them not only to reduce but also to increase the amount of aid that every household can receive. The aid ceilings included in this law, too, must not increase more... Colleagues, in Purvciems, there will be twice as much payment on invoice in the two-room apartment. Also in a number of municipalities with apartment houses, two-room and three-room apartment bills will amount to hundreds of euros if this law is not changed and amended. Colleagues, I understand the lack of interest in this issue and the hope that all things will be done by themselves, but that will not be the case. These solutions need to be found more quickly. I think we cannot afford a situation like that with electricity bills: to start a discussion on electricity bills at a time when a number of people have already received these astronomical bills - hundreds of euro bills for a two-room apartment! Hundreds of euros per apartment! Colleagues, is that normal? I call on the Saeima to amend this law now so that people do not survive these drastic bills. If this law is not changed now, then it is likely that in October people will receive very high electricity bills, which will not be 40-50 percent. The smaller part of Latvian municipalities will be able to provide these 10, 20, 30 percent bills. In most of them they will also be, they will be in the capital with a order number of two times two... no matter where you live - one-room apartment, two-room, three-room, all of them will be once two. And that's not a bill for our citizens right now. We call for the thresholds to be reduced by this law. What has been recorded here is the level of aid, the level of aid fixed, the level of aid, too high, and the limits for granting aid are too low. Colleagues, I call for this agenda to be put on the table, not to put the issue on November or December. We do it right away and now! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U3	Thank you. Members had asked for a vote. I'm asking for a call! We will vote for inclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the law on exceptional increases in energy prices” on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 34, against - 52, abstaining - not. Draft law shall not be included on the agenda of the sitting. The Budget and Finance (tax) Commission is asking for the draft law Amending the Private Pension Funds Act to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is asking for the draft law Amending the Law on Credit Institutions to be included on the agenda of the meeting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is asking for the draft law Amending the Law on Investment Management Companies to be on the agenda for the meeting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Budget and Finance (tax) Commission is asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and their Managers” to be on the agenda of the meeting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is asking for the draft law Amending the Insurance and Reinsurance Act to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is asking for the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Insurance and Reinsurance Distribution’ to be included on the agenda of the meeting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Budget and Finance (tax) Commission is asking for the draft law Amending the Law on Investment firms to be included on the agenda of the meeting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Budget and Finance (tax) Commission is asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Law on the management of grants managed by the European Cybersecurity Competences Centre during the programming period 2021-2027”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption is asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Arms Movements” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Members are therefore asking for a vote. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft law on Arms Movement Law on the agenda of today's sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! 67, 18, abstain - not. Draft legislation shall be included on the agenda of the sitting. Members Jānis Dombrava, Rihards Kols, Juris Rancāns, Krišjānis Feldmans, Edvins Šnore and Ainars Bauskis ask to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to Immigration Law” (No. 1592/Lp13). Members Ilmārs Dūritis, Viesturs Liepkalns, Aigars Bikše, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis and Evija Papule are asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to Immigration Law” drafted by the Cabinet of Ministers (No. 1600/Lp13). And the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption asks that the alternative draft law on Immigration be included on the agenda of the sitting (No. 1677/Lp13). Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ ) and. We'll vote for everything together, huh? Please call me! We will vote in favour of including Mr Janis Dombrava, Mr Rihards Kola, Mr Juris Rancāns, Mr Krišjānis Feldman, Ms Edvins Šnores and Mr Ainars Baskas as their Member on the agenda of the Saeima's sitting (Amendments to the Immigration Law) (No. 1592/Lp13), draft law “Amendments to the Law on Immigration” drafted by the Cabinet of Ministers (No. No 1600/Lp13) and alternative draft law “Amendments to the Law on Immigration” submitted by the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption (No. 1617/Lp13)! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The three draft laws referred to are thus included on the agenda of the Saeima sitting. The National Security Commission is asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Ilmārs Dūritis, Viesturs Liepkalns, Aigars Bikše, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis and Evija Papule are asking to include in the agenda the draft law drafted by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Ukrainian Civil Support Law”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Valerijs Agešins, Jānis Urbanovičs, Sergejs Dolgopolovs, Andrejs Klementjevs and Vitalijs Orlovs are asking for the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Social Security” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Valery Agešins.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U4	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, In order to mitigate the negative impact of rapid inflation on the welfare of citizens, we submitted draft laws “Amendment to the Law on Social Security”, “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits” and “Amendment to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance” for consideration at the Saeima. I will talk about the need for the first draft law. The purpose of the amendment is to index all fixed benefits, including family state benefits. And on behalf of the Group, I would like to remind you that the Saeima decided in July this year to index public pensions two months earlier, with an average increase of 23 per cent. However, the guaranteed minimum income level, despite high inflation, is still not indexed. The guaranteed minimum income benefit is a material aid in monetary terms for the payment of the minimum daily expenses. And these daily expenditures have increased significantly as a result of inflation and the amount of this allowance is no longer in line with the current socio-economic situation in the country. The minimum income levels of these people are still calculated from 2018 statistics. Taking into account the significant increase in consumer prices, it can be concluded that the guaranteed minimum income level - 109 euros for the first person or the only person and 76 euros for the other persons in the household - is not sufficient to cover even the cost of purchasing food, not to mention expenditure such as housing expenditure and health care, and this is contrary to the legal requirement that basic needs are food, clothing, housing, health care, compulsory education. Taking into account the judgements of the Constitutional Court regarding the threshold of minimum income, the Saeima and the Government made amendments to regulatory enactments, however, in our view these amendments were formal, because the increase in the threshold of minimum income from 109 to 125 euros planned for 2023 will not be sufficient to ensure the life of persons in accordance with human dignity. The Ombudsman of the Republic of Latvia, Mr Jansons, has also called on the Government to review the minimum income levels regarding guaranteed minimum income and state social security benefits from October 2022. The purpose of the amendments is to instruct the Cabinet of Ministers to review the amount of guaranteed minimum income by 15 October 2022 and the procedure for reviewing it in order to compensate for the impact of rapid inflation on social security for deprived persons in accordance with the current socio-economic situation, starting from 1 November 2022. Such amendments will result in the protection and protection of persons with the lowest income and reduce the risk of poverty in society. From the state budget for this purpose it would be necessary to provide the municipalities with the necessary co-financing for paying the indexed guaranteed minimum income benefit from 1 November 2022. This should result in a reallocation of appropriations into the 2022 budget, with budgetary resources for raising the guaranteed minimum income threshold and paying the benefits. I would like to remind you that the European Commission and the OECD have pointed out that the minimum income threshold needs to be revised annually rather than every three years, otherwise it is hindering the reduction of income inequality and the risk of poverty. We therefore propose that this bill and two more items be placed on the agenda of the Saeima sitting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U5	Thank you. Do Members object to the inclusion of a draft law on the agenda of the sitting? ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Please call us! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Social Security” on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft law shall not be included on the agenda of the sitting. Members Valerijs Agešins, Jānis Urbanovičs, Sergejs Dolgopolovs, Andrejs Klementjevs and Vitalijs Orlovs are asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits”. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Andrejs Klementjevs.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U6	Good afternoon, honourable Members! You know, 13. The family is not supposed to be proud of the social block, but I will say that one of our good steps was that we almost doubled the family state allowance. Yes, it was about 12 euros. We increased it to EUR 25, and then EUR 50, 100... and 100 per child for those with more than three children. Good work, and I did not expect such a good result (fairly) but the government helped and found the funds - I think EUR 63 million were invested in this project. But inflation came, and today all of our works are in the wind, it's devalued. The reality today is that those families we supported with this allowance and children who could possibly afford more items from their parents feel very, very difficult times today. We do not want to get caught in populism and offer (as one another) five thousand, three thousand, we ask the government to develop the same model as pensions and index the allowance. We can take this case - family state benefit - in the Commission, contact the Ministry of Welfare, invite the Ministry of Finance and in the Commission to develop a logical algorithm to increase the benefit. If we want this financial aid to be expected in the future and if inflation does not completely destroy it, we need a decision before the end of this term. If we only want to play with numbers, then this number will look good, but in reality it will be impossible to buy children's food, some children's clothes today, because there is very high inflation in this segment - I think up to 35 percent. Please support, pass on to the Commission, and there we will logically, without populism, quietly find their numbers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U7	Whether Members have objections (Interface) Against inclusion of a draft law on the agenda of the Saeima sitting? ( Insights: “There is no objection! ” ; “Ir!” ; “Let’s vote!” ) Please call us! We will vote for inclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits” on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 32, against - 53, refrains - not. Draft law shall not be included on the agenda of the sitting. Members Valerijs Agešins, Jānis Urbanovičs, Sergejs Dolgopolovs, Andrejs Klementjevs and Vitalijs Orlovs are asking to include the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance” on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Please call us! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft law on social services and social assistance on the agenda of the sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 30, 53, abstaining - not. The draft law shall not be placed on the agenda. Members Krišjānis Feldmans, Sandis Riekstins, Linda Medne, Jānis Butāns and Uldis Budriķis are asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the Real Estate State Cadastre Law”. Do Members object to the inclusion of a draft law on the agenda of the sitting? There is no objection. Draft legislation shall be included on the agenda of the sitting. Members Ainars Latkovskis, Kārlis Šadurskis, Krišjānis Feldmans, Linda Medne, Rihards Kols, Juris Pūce, Dace Rukšāne-Ščipčinska, Raivis Dzintars and Raimonds Bergmanis are asking to include in the agenda the draft law “On the transfer of real estate to the municipality of Cesis”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. Draft legislation shall be included on the agenda of the sitting. Let us start by looking at the amended agenda. On the agenda - reports from the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Presidium of Saeima proposes that the draft law presented by Member Krišjānis Feldman, Sanda Riekstiņa, Ainars Bakša, Linda Mednes and Jānis Butāns be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U8	Good afternoon! We had to prepare this bill, because it was obvious that after the popular vote on the fact that Latvian is the only language of the country and this decision was made - very strict, in reality, it was nothing that was implemented to the end - in life, in life, in business. Thus, in order to ensure implementation of the results of voting of the respective people in life, this draft law has been prepared, which will strengthen Latvian as the only state language. I invite all those who stand for the Latvian language as the only state language to vote in favour of handing over the draft law to the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U9	Ms Jūlija Stepanenko, Member, has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U10	Dear colleagues, Honorable Latvian Society! I will now turn more to the thinking part of Latvian society, which is used to analysing, reading, studying - not just to follow some names and titles, but to understand the essence of things. Most likely, at the moment it is not worth talking to this hall, because people are not interested in what is happening, they have decided... and most of the colleagues in the Saeima will probably not listen to the voice of reason, but it is the outgoing government and it is the outgoing coalition, so we do not care what they think about. Colleagues, we understand that such initiatives are free of charge, these initiatives do not pay anything from the national budget... perhaps a little bit to ensure the administrative burden of collecting penalties, but overall this will certainly pay off. And such an initiative does not make Members look for coordination in the Ministry of Finance or municipalities. It is simply decided, and society is once again divided. You see, colleagues, this is, of course, much simpler than thinking about how we will survive this winter, and thinking about how people could survive in these economic conditions when buying food for themselves, because divided societies are the best soil for various abuses. While people look at each other with distrust and try to write comments in such a way that the police do not find something wrong and do not propose another thing, while you can feel completely free in your permissiveness and do everything that comes into your mind. But when the society is united, when the society does not look at each other, but begins to look at you (as happened in the community’s apocalypse), then you begin to nervously. You just started to nervous when the collection of signatures for the dismissal of the Saeima approached such a very interesting threshold. Now, to divide society, of course, you are the winners. But what do I want to say to you, colleagues? You probably don't meet voters standing on the street and telling about yourself and your work, because you're afraid, but we're doing it. And what people do, what they say...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U11	Colleagues, however, I call on you not to use the Saeima Tribunal for the election campaign.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U12	I'll tell you, colleagues, what people are talking about. They're scared, they're scared! - from such conduct, from the division of society. And, you know what's coming here? Latvians from Latvian families are coming, Russians from Latvian families are coming, one is Latvian, the other is Russian. And what do we hear? They no longer talk to each other that they buy food in separate stores and that they don’t look at each other. And it's your merit, you can be happy about it. But there are Latvians who are very afraid of what you... where you bring this country, our country, Latvia. They don't understand why you need it - those who think, those who study, those who understand the substance of things. Therefore, colleagues, if you think that this cheap method will bring you one or two votes, hope that nothing will happen to you. I call for a 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U13	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the law “Law on the provision of the status of Latvian language as the only state language” to the Legal Commission, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 66, for - 18, for - 1. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Dear colleagues, it's time for a break. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name For Inese Voika to read the registration results.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U14	Not registered: Boriss Cilevičs, Ilmārs Dūritis... Ilmārs Dūritis is, Janīna Jalinska, Ieva Krapāne, Edgars Kucins, Evija Papule... Evija Papule is, Jānis Urbanovičs, Jānis Vitenbergs and Gatis Zamurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U15	Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U16	Ladies and gentlemen, I call for seats to be held in the Saeima's Chamber so that we can continue to work on the agenda of the sitting of 15 September this year. On the agenda - reports from the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the Member Viktoras Valaiņa, Ulda Augulis, Janina Jalinska, Jānis Vacāns, Gundars Dauge and other draft laws submitted by the member “Amendment to the Law on the Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions” be referred to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U17	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I will ask you one question: do you think it is normal for you to promise educators on the back of the crisis? Do you think that this attitude towards Latvian teachers is fair? That is what this bill is about. The draft law is about fair treatment. I may have said provocatively in a way: to promise through the back, but how can I explain differently what it is that promise through the back. Sowing is a threat to a part of society or to a particular part of society. And, honourable colleagues, attitude in this process of a teacher strike is quite simple. If you strike more than one day, we will not compensate you! How can this be explained differently as a direct threat to teachers about what will happen to them if they act differently? Colleagues, yesterday's a generous offer from the government... whether it is respectful conversations, the conclusion of which is once again a threat to the educators - if you do not agree, you will not be at all. ( Milestones.) Ladies and gentlemen, is this the right attitude towards educators? Anyone here who thinks that this was not the case can see a reflection of yesterday's yesterday's news of how these negotiations were reflected. And there was a clear signal from the Minister of Education and Science that either this or nothing. Be happy about what is. But what is it? As the Prime Minister said - a very generous offer. Colleagues, how generous is this offer to those working at pre-school institutions in Latvia? Isn't it that this generous offer, as the Prime Minister has called it, is not close to zero? This offer is close to zero for university workers (there are also teachers). What is it to them? This government proposal also means that you will get the money, but you will have to work more. It's logical, but in a way it divides the educators. I can only say (Interfaces.) Thank you for the fact that the educators have stood and remained united in their positions, not standing against each other, because this proposal is against the educators. Anyone who has even gone into this matter a little bit knows that I am right. A number of municipal leaders have already mentioned that this offer is against teachers. As long as it is 56 million, no solution will be found. Perhaps it will be possible to change the attitude towards fair treatment and respectful negotiations, which have unfortunately not taken place at the moment. ( The box “Nemo! ”) ) Perhaps the attitude will change. At that point, we must be aware of how much money is actually needed for this sector, and that is not 56 million, and more money is needed. If we are talking about the generosity of the Prime Minister, then this bill puts both sides in the same position at an early stage. This bill puts Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņa in the same position. From next year it predicts to him exactly the same increase in salary as teachers. This draft law provides for the freezing of the Prime Minister's salary until an agreement with the educators is found. It's so simple. The Prime Minister will not have an increase of three thousand euros until the educators are respected. The same applies to the Ministers for Education and Science - an increase of two thousand euros when a teacher strikes. How does it go with a job assessment? What is it? Pedagogic strike - is that okay? Let us add two thousand euros to the Minister's salary and three to the Prime Minister. We call for these wages to be frozen until a solution is found. ( Internouncing call.) Monday will be a strike, and I call on you to do everything for the government to start doing something in essence.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U18	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions” to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! ( The drug is noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the Member Viktoras Valaiņa, Ulda Augulis, Janina Jalinska, Janis Vacāns, Gundars Mūre and other draft laws presented "Amendment to the law on exceptional increases in energy resource prices" be referred to the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Ainārs Vilcins, a Member, has applied for the floor. ( Pause) Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission the draft law "Amendment to the law on exceptional increases in energy prices", which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Credit Register Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes to refer the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On the Bank of Latvia” presented by the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission to the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Support Law” presented by the Cabinet be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Financial Stability Fees” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Conformity Assessment” be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Real Estate Tax” presented by Member Jūlija Stepanenko, Alda Gobzema, Karina Sprūde, Lubova Švekova and Ainārs Vilciņš be referred to the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Jūlija Stepanenko, Member, has applied to speak about”
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U19	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that this is not a question of language, nor of other things that are of interest to you at the moment, but of a practical nature. And at last sitting, you rejected it without listening. So let's repeat it again. On 1 October thousands of Latvian household owners will face a problem that has already been warned... including Members... for a long time, already in the summer, that those buildings the construction of which started before 1 October 2014... will be regarded as ruins because the State seems to be taking care of the fact that it is not allowed to live in an incomplete building, but, in fact, will simply take more tax, which is three percent of the value of real estate. No one has made a calculation of how many such buildings are in Latvia. We know only that there are about six thousand such buildings in Riga. Daugavpils - devastating number! The Latgale Group may not have listed anything. We have a group of Latgale Members, but we do not know what is happening in Daugavpils. Daugavpils - 2029 such buildings! You don't worry, Mr. Bondar? In Liepaja - about 420 buildings, in Adāži - about 1,000. And so - all over Latvia, there are such buildings in every city. And it's at all that these people will have to pay for gas, for electricity, for petrol, for all the things that will be expensive. Do you not think, however, that you should stop talking and think about people who are threatened with this increased bill with October 1 just because you haven't planned to cancel in time... Is that so? There's no such thing that people have an extra duty to stand in queues at the moment... They stood in those rows to get this extension, but did not stand it. And that's again... It is your responsibility. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U20	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission to the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Real Estate Tax”, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Political Organisations (Parties)” presented by Mr. Kaspars Ģirgena, Ms. Erika Pucena, Ms. Ieva Krapāne, Mr. Ramonas Petraviča and Mr. Māra Možvillo be referred to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Kaspars Ģirgens.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U21	Even today, I do not regret the fact that, at the time the budget was adopted in 2019, I voted against the increase in party funding. I saw the resistance that exists to those coalition parties, also when they were in the coalition themselves, about how much this funding is needed; about the fact that the President of Latvia wants the parties to receive more funding and be more independent of sponsors. A number of years have passed, and we can now draw conclusions on what I am talking about already in 2019. Have the parties really become more financially independent, or have their communication with citizens improved? Data have been collected and it is now clear that the funding that has been made available in the past has only helped the parties to get rid of their debts. And now... Yes, of course, I can answer that funding from sponsors has fallen, but this problem has not been completely eliminated. We still often see issues about gambling on the agenda; gambling is supported despite the opposition of the population. And the same thing is with the Skulte terminal, which is lobbying. These funds do not help to make the policy more transparent. After the number of members we can now see that there are 1,800 members for the same “Sagar” even reduced the number of members as it was in 2019. I can say, of course, to Development/About! - its membership has increased by 200 members. The new Unity has decreased, the Conservatives have increased. However, the number of their members is not the same as we can see in the neighbouring countries. The leading parties in Lithuania have around 20,000 members. We still have a long way to go, but the funding that has been allocated does not show that we are moving in the right direction with this increase in funding. It is more interesting to address people and explain that politics is a process with which we can influence our country. But unfortunately, also in the research that we can now read... For example, on the website lsm.lv there was a summary that political parties very much communicate with their voters and these political processes are very poor quality. Most of this funding is spent to promote before the elections. It is spent on advertising, video, social networks, but the period between the start of the elections and the next elections is poor quality and funding does not help. That is why I am still arguing for the need to reduce our funding. If the current ceiling is 800 thousand, it should be reduced to 200 thousand. And you have to deal with quality policies, people's speech. Brochures - beautiful, colorful - will not help. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U22	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Political Organisations (Parties)” to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 30, no one for - 47, no one. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Election Aggregation” presented by Kaspars Ģirgens, Ērika Pucena, Ieva Krapāne, Ramonas Petravičs and Māra Možvillo be referred to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Ēriks Pucens, a Member, has applied for this.”
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U23	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Hello, colleagues! The election time has begun, and each party shows what has been done and what it will do for Latvia in the future. But not only do political parties tell about their work, about their programmes, are also people who are involved in this debate; there are media that tell what they have done. He says better about someone than he says worse. But there are also survey companies that have tax debts; there are also companies that carry out their surveys very poorly, without even showing that there are many more parties in our country... And they consider these lots as small lots, they stay under “others”. So when these surveys are carried out, there are only power parties on a large scale, and there are also “other” parties. That is why we in the “Republic” Party are calling for an additional Article 32. In particular, we call on 60-day companies, such as SKDS and FACTUM, not to publish the data of this survey so that the public, so that voters can themselves be able to judge what to vote on by the information available. So I call, colleagues, to support the draft law and to hand it over to the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U24	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Internouncing call.) Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Election Aggregation” to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the member Kaspars Ģirgens, Ramonas Petravičs, Ieva Krapāne, Erika Pucena, Ainārs Vilciņš and other draft laws presented “Amendments to the Law on the Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions” be referred to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Kaspars Ģirgens.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U25	The issue of wages is now a very important topic that urgently needs to be addressed, because the energy crisis with inflation, which has now reached not only Latvia but also the rest of the Baltic States, proves that we need to increase the wage fund more quickly both for the Ministry of the Interior and for teachers, but this must be done on an equal and equal basis. We cannot increase the Prime Minister's salary by 30 per cent (about EUR 2500 in addition), ministers (EUR 1800 in addition), Members while, at the same time, teachers... Until recently, teachers had additional funding - EUR 70. And they have every right to demand... organise and participate in this strike. I would like to mention that the staff of the Ministry of the Interior are those who, by law, must not strike. We can see their reward and their percentage increase in 2023. We can read that the employees of the Ministry of the Interior will only be paid up by 10 percent. In my view, it's shameful! I can give you an example of a fire-fighter's assistant now... Someone who won't be in the Saeima... There is every possibility to apply for a fire extinguisher assistant for 650 euros (before tax) by 31 December. You can also try to become a firefighter, a rescuer, a driver and get EUR 716. It's safe! This vacancy is available until 31 December. I think that this vacancy will also be available for the next, all the other years, because you have to understand that a man has a family of EUR 716 (and tax is deducted from them!) It's very difficult. As a result, many officials of the Ministry of the Interior are working on double work to draw ends. And this winter will be hard. Members of the opposition are very often reminded of this, but hearing ears do not hear it. We therefore stand by the need for equality and the need for public administration staff to increase their remuneration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U26	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions” to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! 25, 40, abstain - not. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes to refer the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on the Simplification of Travels between the Populations of the Border Territories of the Republic of Latvia and the Republic of Belarus” presented by the Foreign Affairs Commission to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on Air Transport” presented by the Foreign Commission be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law submitted by the Foreign Affairs Commission “Amendment to the Law on the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on Mutual Assistance in Customs Matters” be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law presented by the Member Ritvars Jansons, Arvils Asheraden, Krišjānis Feldman, Jurs Puce and Ināra Mūrniece, be referred to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Mr. Ritvars Jansons, a Member, has applied for the floor.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U27	Hello! When the word “Lestene” is heard, it seems that the local name referred to by most of Latvia’s residents relates to the Church of Lesten and memorial soldiers. It is also understandable, because Latvia's cultural history... in time... The church in Leschen, built in the 17th century, was once proud of one of the most luxurious baroque interiors in Latvia. And during World War II... The largest military battle took place in Latvia during the Second World War on the Kurzeme Front, therefore also near Leschen. The first battle in the history of Latvia took place near Leschen, where thousands of citizens of the Republic of Latvia, who were involved in the series of occupying armies, fought against each other and fell. In the memorial tombs, fallen Latvian soldiers and lost partisans in the national partisan war were buried. The Lestene Church has been a monument to architecture of national importance for years. Today, church services and concerts are taking place. Reconstruction work is under way. Next to the church is Leschen Memorial, which began to be a memorial place for the soldiers who died in the Second World War – Latvian citizens. More than a thousand soldiers who died in World War II were buried in the Cemetery of Leschen Brothers, whose remains of mortals were found and reidentified in open places on the territory of Latvia and Russia. About 11 thousand fallen Latvian soldiers - legioners - have been engraved on a 100 plate instead of the memorial. The nearby old building gradually created an exposition related to soldiers buried in the Lestene Brothers Cemetery and battleplaces in the vicinity of Lestene. An important, complex memorial site has been created, which reflects the events of the Second World War in the territory of Latvia and preserves the memory of Latvian soldiers. In view of its history and importance in society, the status of the national monument was acquired by the whole of the said complex, and on 15 July the Minister of Culture Nauris Puntulis signed an order on the national monument of protected culture - the monument of architecture and historical event - the Lutheran Church of Lesten and the memorial site of the Second World War with the Memorial of Lesten. Undoubtedly, such an important object was, has and will need state support - the Saeima has regularly granted financial resources to the Cemetery of the Lesten Brothers; the State has supported the restoration of the Lesten Church. The church and memorial have also been supported by the municipality of Tukums. By adopting this law, there would be an intelligible procedure in which the state and the municipality can direct funds for the development of an object of national importance. The law would also lay down the procedure for the maintenance, use, protection and management of the monument. The monument has enormous development potential - it does not only carry out religious activities; commemoration events of Latvian soldiers take place. The monument can serve perfectly to maintain the historical memory of society, education and cultural events. War in Ukraine has heightened public attention by assessing the importance of the ability to defend its country. Further expositions about the development of Latvian soldiers in the Second World War can also contribute here. The frequency of cultural events in the church would, of course, contribute to the complete restoration of the church. The monument can also become an important tourist attraction. In the granite of the Leschen Brothers Cemetery, the words: “We look forward to the resurrection of righteousness.” They remind us that it is the responsibility of society and our country to know their history and to take care of this monument. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U28	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that Member Normunds Gunna, Juris Rancāns, Ulda Budriķis, Ainars Baškis and Sanda Riekstins refer the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on State Funded Pensions’ to the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Normunds Gunna.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U29	Hello, colleagues! Today we invite you to support the Conservative draft law “Amendments to the State Funded Pensions Act”. The purpose of the draft law is to extend the possibility for members of the funded pension scheme to use the accumulated pension capital at their discretion and according to their needs. The nature of the draft law is as follows: The draft law provides for the addition of the first paragraph of Section 7 of the law, which provides that a member of the funded pension scheme, when applying for an old-age pension (and thus, in the case of early retirement), chooses one of the following options for the payment of the funded pension capital, with paragraph 3 in the following wording: ‘The accrued funded pension capital shall be entitled to receive the bank account indicated by him and shall be used at his own discretion’. The draft law also provides for the addition of Article 7 of the law with a third paragraph stating that, before reaching the pensionable age, a member of the funded pension scheme is entitled to use the accumulated pension capital for the following purposes: firstly, to make the first contribution to the acquisition of mortgage credit for immovable property; secondly, to discharge and/or reduce mortgage credit liabilities; and, thirdly, to cover medical expenses. If the accumulated pension capital is used for these purposes, we are improving people's well-being and living conditions in the long term, as well as indirectly stimulating the national economy. The current version of the law does not allow to use the second level of pension capital accumulated to solve acute health problems, including at the moment it is not even allowed to use these accumulated funds for the payment of life-saving operations. I consider that such a restriction on the treatment of personal resources is not logical and proportionate. People must be given the opportunity to save their lives by using their own money. And what is very important in using the accumulated resources today is that this capital will not be subject to today's enormous inflation, which in a year or two will lead to the fact that the accumulated capital will probably not provide any additional to the first level of pensions, and that the profitability of the schemes is far from being able to compensate for the losses caused by inflation. And the amendments tabled do not have a direct impact on the national budget. I invite you to refer the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Funded Pensions” to the responsible Budgetary and Financial (Tax) Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U30	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Labour Law” presented by Mr. Krišjānis Feldmans, Mr. Sanda Riekstins, Mr. Jānis Butāns, Ms. Reinis Znotiņš and Ms. Evita Zālīte-Gross be referred to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law on “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media” presented by the National Security Commission be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Support of the Civil People of Ukraine” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the member Krišjānis Feldman, Sanda Riekstiņa, Linda Medne, Jānis Butāns and Uldas Budriķis refer the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the State Cadastre of Real Estate” to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the Member Ainara Latkovska, Kārlis Šadurska, Krišjānis Feldmana, Linda Mednes, Rihards Kola, Jurs Pūce and other draft law on the transfer of real estate to the municipality of Cesis be referred to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The following were changes to the Bureau's agenda. The Budget and Finance (tax) Commission is asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On the Bank of Latvia” at first reading without re-examination in the committee responsible. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Foreign Affairs Commission is asking to include in the agenda of the meeting the draft law “Amendment to the law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on the Simplification of Travels between the Populations of the Border Territories of the Republic of Latvia and the Republic of Belarus” at first reading without re-examination by the responsible commission. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Foreign Commission is asking to include in the agenda of the meeting the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on Air Transport” at first reading without re-examination in the committee responsible. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Foreign Commission is asking to include in the agenda of the meeting the draft law “Amendment to the law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on Mutual Assistance in Customs Matters” at first reading without re-examination by the responsible commission. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. Ladies and gentlemen, then on the agenda - reports by the Bureau on its own-initiative proposals. Members Ramona Petraviča, Aldis Gobzems, Kaspars Ģirgens, Jūlija Stepanenko, Ieva Krapāne, Lubova Švecova, Maris Možvillo, Karina Sprūde, Ainārs Vilciņš and Inguna Rībena have submitted their own proposal – the draft decision “On the fixing of price caps for natural gas and electricity”. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) There are therefore objections. We must therefore decide on the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal in the agenda of the next sittings, namely the sittings of 22 September. Mrs. Petravič will talk about it, if? ‘ Ramona Petraviča, a Member, has applied to speak about’.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U31	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The Government's inability to make informed decisions quickly and consistently during the Covid-19 crisis has caused significant damage to Latvia's economy and citizens' well-being. We are now in a similar situation. However, substantial income from value added tax, social tax and personal income tax is received by the state budget. Astronomical profit is achieved by Latvenergo and Latvijas gas, not by local or state residents. Every fourth citizen is at risk of poverty. As food, heating and electricity prices rise, this proportion will only grow. In order to prevent the above - the bankruptcy of businesses, the release of people - and to avoid a new wave of emigration, I have repeatedly proposed that a price ceiling be set for electricity and heating... in the smaller region, i.e. between the Baltic States, Poland and Germany. I have already mentioned at the previous sitting that such an approach has been supported by the European Union, by the Belgian Minister for Energy and the Austrian Chancellor in their presence. The Chancellor of Germany has said that the price ceiling for electricity will be introduced as soon as possible. An electricity and heating guarantee has been introduced in the United Kingdom, meaning that households will pay a fixed amount in advance. These are not individual cases, but a causal relationship, which also needs to be followed in Latvia. If colleagues in other countries do not think that their experience is convincing, I would like to mention two advantages of such an approach to dealing with the crisis. Firstly, immediate support for the least provided. Even now, a large part of society has to refuse to live in sufficiently heated or adequately lit apartments, and a large part of society has to give up not only good food, but also have to reduce its quantity significantly... or even vitally important medicines. And this applies not only to seniors, but also to families with children who will have to live in cold and dark. These people need the immediate help offered by imposing a price ceiling. If they were to be implemented, the expected large autumn heating and electricity bills would be eliminated, as well as real income levels would increase, but given that, in a crisis situation where the price of electricity on the stock exchange fluctuates by 1,000 per cent in the course of the day, this would also help to allow households to plan expenditure. Up to now, the notified compensation for heating costs of 350 million is insufficient and will benefit only a small part of the population. Secondly, long-term support for economic operators. As shopping centres such as Alfa and Acropolis shorten working time, sports halls decide to stop operations and small businesses are preparing for bankruptcy, they need to provide real and tangible support. Colleagues, while Latvian society is getting into poverty, Latvian entrepreneurs are in bankruptcy, Latvenergo has concluded for the first half of the year with a record profit of 142 million euros! We have to give this money back to the people of Latvia, not leave it in the budget. Please support the setting of price caps for electricity and heating and - so that they are the lowest in the region. Please support the draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U32	Thank you. Let's vote. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft decision on the establishment of a price ceiling for natural gas and electricity in the agenda of the next sitting of the Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 33, against - 46, abstaining. Consequently, the draft decision is not on the agenda of the next sitting of the Saeima. Is there a proposal for a referral to one of the commissions? Please turn on the microphone for Ramon Petravič. That's the microphone for Mrs. Petravič... Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U33	Budget and financial (tax) commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U34	Budget and financial (tax) commission. So there is a proposal for a transfer to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. We must vote on this. Please call me! We will vote for the transfer to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission of the draft decision on fixing the price ceiling for natural gas and electricity! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 31, 46, abstain - not. Consequently, the draft decision has not been referred to the Commission and has been rejected. Members Ramona Petraviča, Jūlija Stepanenko, Ieva Krapāne, Karina Sprūde, Maris Možvillo, Lubova Švecova, Ralfs Nemiro, Kaspars Ģirgens, Aldis Gobzems and Inguna Rībena have submitted an own-initiative proposal – draft decision on the implementation of state measures to stabilise energy prices. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) There are objections. We must therefore decide on its inclusion on the agenda of the next sitting. ‘ Ramona Petraviča, a Member, has applied to speak about’.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U35	Colleagues, the rapid increase in electricity and heating prices The Latvian households bring poverty, businesses - bankruptcy and local governments - into a situation where they will no longer be able to provide public utility services. This has already been pointed out by the Latvian Municipal Union by sending a letter to each group with proposals and existing problems. The expected negative impact in autumn and winter will only increase, however, the government still does not have a clear action plan for stabilising energy prices or a comprehensive support package for Latvian citizens and entrepreneurs. From 1 October, an electricity price guarantee will be introduced in the United Kingdom, meaning that there will be fixed price caps over the next two years. In addition, a discount on electricity charges will be introduced. Germany has also introduced price caps, which are already the third package of large-scale aid after equalisation and discounts. Similar support mechanisms are already offered in most Western Europe. Latvia's approach to such support is late and currently almost non-existent, which is unacceptable and dangerous to Latvian citizens. Five vitally needed mechanisms should be included in the development and implementation of the energy price stabilisation action plan: firstly, ensuring that heating prices are stabilised at the level of the population's solvency, with reference to the average heating costs of the previous year. Secondly, to involve the state-owned companies Latvenergo and “State Forests of Latvia in the supply of heating resources”, in developing the regulatory framework in order to change their strategic objectives in the short term. Third, to ensure that the fibre is available for heating at an adequate price. Fourthly, apply the abolition of the cost of electricity system services. Fifthly, introduce additional support mechanisms for critical and high energy infrastructure. These forms of support must be offered immediately in order to avoid an increase in the proportion of the population at risk of poverty or poverty and to ensure an adequate quality of life and well-being in the country. We must bear in mind that the energy crisis does not end only with households, but also with the negative impact on private sector entrepreneurs, schools, hospitals and social care institutions. The neglect of these institutions would mean the loss of human lives, so I invite you to stand up for the request for the Cabinet to develop and implement an action plan for energy price stabilisation without delay. Please support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U36	Thank you. Colleagues, we must therefore vote in favour of putting this draft decision on the agenda for the next sitting of 22 September. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft decision on the implementation of state measures for energy price stabilisation on the agenda of the Saeima's next sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft decision shall not be placed on the agenda for the next sitting. Is there a proposal to transfer this own-initiative proposal to one of the commissions? Please a microphone member, Petravič.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U37	Please hand over to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U38	So there is a proposal to hand this own-initiative proposal over to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. We must vote on this. Please call me! We will vote for the transfer of the draft decision on the implementation of state measures for energy price stabilisation to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 31, no one for - 47, no one for - 47. The draft decision has not been referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission and has been rejected. On the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Draft decision “On the dismissal of the judge of Riga district court from the office of judge of Second Tiltiņa-Zariņa”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U39	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, During the meeting of the Legal Commission on 6 September, the draft decision “On the dismissal of the judge of Riga district court, Anta Tiltiņa-Zariņa from the office of a judge” was reviewed. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I invite the judge of Riga district court, Antru Tiltiņš-Zariņš, to be released from office of the judge at his own wish.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U40	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the dismissal of the judge of Riga district court from the office of judge of Second Tiltiņa-Zariņa”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 69, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Draft decision “On the dismissal of the judge of Vidzeme district court Kārlis Jansons from the position of judge”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U41	During the meeting of the Legal Commission on 6 September, the draft decision “On the dismissal of the judge of Vidzeme district court Kārlis Jansons from the position of a judge” was reviewed. The members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I invite Kārlis Jansons, the judge of Vidzeme district court, to be dismissed from office of the judge at his own wish from September 16, 2022.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U42	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the dismissal of the judge of Vidzeme district court Kārlis Jansons from the office of judge”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. Decision adopted. The draft decision ‘On the appointment of Lauras Smukules as a judge of a district (city) court’. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U43	At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 6 September this year, the draft decision “On the appointment of Lauras Smukules as a judge of a district (city) court” was examined. The members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I invite Laura Smukuli to be appointed judge of district (city) court by 26 September 2022.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U44	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the appointment of Lauras Smukules as a judge of a district (city) court”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. Decision adopted. The draft decision ‘On the appointment of Ilona Sabīne Sviķe as a judge of a district (city) court’. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U45	At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 6 September, the draft decision ‘On the appointment of Ilona Sabīne Sviķe as a judge of a district (city) court’ was considered. The members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I invite Ilona Sabini Sviķis to appoint as a judge of a district (city) court by 26 September 2022.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U46	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the appointment of Ilona Sabīne Sviķe as a district (city) court judge! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. Decision adopted. The President of the Republic of Crimea is hereby authorised to designate the person(s) empowered to sign the Agreement on behalf of the European Union and to sign the Agreement on behalf of the European Union and the Swiss Confederation on behalf of On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U47	At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 6 September, the draft decision ‘On the appointment of Mika Čevera as a judge of a district (city) court’ was considered. The members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call on Mikas Čeveras to appoint the judge of the district (city) court from September 19, 2022.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U48	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the appointment of Mika Čevera as a judge of district (city) court. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. The decision ‘On the appointment of Gunta Lauska as a judge of a district (city) court’. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U49	At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 6 September, the draft decision ‘On the appointment of Gunta Lauska as a judge of a district (city) court’ was considered. The members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call on Gunti Lauski to appoint as a judge of a district (city) court by 19 September 2022. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U50	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the appointment of Gunta Lauskas as a judge of district (city) court! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Waste Management Act”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member Viesturs Liepkalns on behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U51	Good afternoon, very honourable President of the Saeima and honourable colleagues! The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined and prepared the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Waste Management” (No. 1542/Lp13) for the second, final, reading. The aim of the draft law is to ensure adequate disposal of waste from local authorities and the parties involved in waste management until the full start of operation of new waste management regions, as well as to extend the deadline for the development of regional waste management plans until 1 July 2023. In total, four proposals were received by the Commission. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is envisaged to supplement the transitional provisions with an explanation of the scope of the new version. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U52	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U53	2. - Proposal from Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Gata Zamura. It is envisaged to replace the time for the conclusion of the contracts referred to in point 54 of the transitional provision... from 31 July this year... 31 October of this year. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U54	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U55	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Provision shall be made for supplementing point 54 of the transitional provisions with provisions on the non-extension of waste management contracts if the waste is no longer stored in that place after 31 December 2023. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U56	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U57	And 4. - Proposal from Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Gata Zamura. It is envisaged to delete the date of entry into force of the draft law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U58	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U59	Colleagues, we have examined all the proposals in the draft law on "Amendments to the Waste Management Act". This draft law was approved by the Commission. I also call on you to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U60	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on "Amendments to the Waste Management Act" in the second, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law on the World Postal Convention and its Final Protocol, second reading. Member Atis Lejiņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U61	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members, Honourable Members! We are examining the draft law, as has already been said, on the World Postal Convention and its Final Protocol. The Foreign Affairs Commission has not received any proposals. I call for the draft law to be adopted at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U62	Please call me! Let us vote on the draft law on the World Postal Convention and its Final Protocol at second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft Act amending the Protocol on persistent organic pollutants of 24 June 1998 to the United Nations Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Pollution of 13 November 1979, second reading. Member Atis Lejiņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U63	I think I don't have to read that long name. This is about air pollution. We received both this time two proposals from the Legal Commission (Interface.) , and we unanimously adopted them. I therefore call for the vote on approval at second, final, reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U64	No, no, no, pag, pag! We need to look at the proposals. So it's 1. - The Legal Bureau's proposal...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U65	Yeah, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U66	... which the Commission has supported. Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U67	Yeah. And 2. - also a proposal from the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U68	No, office, office... Proposal from the Legal Bureau, which has been supported by the Commission. Members are in favour. And now...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U69	I call for the draft law to be adopted at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U70	Please call me! We will vote on the draft law on amendments to the second, final reading of the United Nations Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Pollution of 13 November 1979 on persistent organic pollutants! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on Land Guard of the Republic of Latvia”, third reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U71	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Colleagues! In the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, we have examined the draft law “Amendment to the Law of the Republic of Latvia on Land Guard”. No proposals have been received. I call for support for the bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U72	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law of the Republic of Latvia on Land Guards” at the third reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The law is passed. Draft law “Law on Cultural Centres”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Ilga Šuplinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U73	Hello! Lobby dyna! Oh, my God! The Commission for Education, Culture and Science has examined 11 draft law “Law on Cultural Centres” before the third reading (No. 41/Lp13) proposals. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editative nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U74	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U75	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Provision shall be made for editorial and legal clarification in the first, fourth and fifth paragraphs of Article 3. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U76	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U77	3. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Janson. Partially supported, included 4. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U78	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U79	4. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The second paragraph of Article 4 shall be revised. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U80	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U81	5. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Janson. Agrees with the proposal of the Legal Bureau. Partly supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U82	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U83	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The first paragraph of Article 5 shall be legally clarified, providing that the procedure for the provision and compilation of official statistical data shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U84	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U85	7. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Janson. Partly supported, included 8. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U86	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U87	8 / 8 - a proposal from the committee responsible. The rule of law is clarified, adding that cultural centres may receive financial resources not only from the founder and the state but also from other financial sources. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U88	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U89	9. - a proposal from the committee responsible. A duplicate article of the draft law shall be excluded. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U90	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U91	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Janson. Partially supported, included 11. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U92	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U93	11. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supplementing the transitional provisions of the draft law with paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 by providing that, firstly, the municipality shall within a specified time limit provide for at least one cultural centre located in its administrative territory the status of a methodological cultural centre; secondly, the Cabinet of Ministers shall amend the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers relating to the collection of statistical data in the field of culture not later than 30 June 2023. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U94	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Ritvar Janson.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U95	Yeah, this... I will speak as Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture. This 11th proposal, as is usual for the law in the transitional provisions, lays down the dates of implementation of the law, time limits. But I want to say thank you in general. The law is such an important step in defining the objectives, functions, legal basis, and funding arrangements of the cultural centres, and above all it is important for the employees of the cultural centres themselves to raise their own awareness, including the society that is in the area of the cultural centres. And it is a happy work that employees of cultural centres also do in ensuring the process of the Song Festival. It is a real pleasure that this draft law promoted by the Ministry of Culture was developed by the Education, Science and Culture Commission. Thank you to all the members of the Commission, thank you to the chairman of the Commission, Mr Asheraden, for his support, thank you to the senior legal adviser to the Legal Bureau, Mr Lilita Wilson, for the wise advice. I call for support to be given to both the 11th proposal and the draft legislation as a whole.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U96	I closed the debate. Members support proposal 11.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U97	All 11 proposals have been examined. Please support the draft law at third, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U98	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law on "Law on Cultural Centres" in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Normunds Gunna.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U99	Good afternoon, colleagues! The Commission of Social and Labour Affairs has prepared for the third reading of the draft law “Amendments to the law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance””. We have received nine proposals for the third reading. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Article 1 of the draft law, which provided for the replacement of the word ‘calendar’ by the word ‘work’ in the introductory part thereof, is to be excluded. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U100	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U101	2. - also a proposal from the Legal Office. Article 2 of the draft law, which provided for amendments to be made to a new wording of Article 10.2 of the law, is to be excluded. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U102	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U103	3. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. It is envisaged to supplement the second paragraph of Article 10.4 by regulating the conditions of the non-transferable part of the parental allowance. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U104	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U105	4. - a proposal from the Commission on Social Affairs and Labour. Provision is made for the expression of paragraph 4.1 in a new version, which sets the period for the payment of maternity benefit. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U106	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U107	5. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. It is envisaged to add to point 4.2.4, after the words ‘on parental leave’, the words ‘or on unpaid leave granted as a result of the need to care for a child or because of parental leave do not generate income as a self-employed worker’. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U108	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U109	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is envisaged to exclude the seventh paragraph of Article 10.4 of the draft law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U110	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U111	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Article 5 of the draft law, which provides for the date of entry into force of the new version of the articles in the transitional provisions, is to be excluded.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U112	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U113	8 / 8 - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Article 5 of the draft law is to be recast.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U114	Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U115	Commission-supported, yes.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U116	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U117	9. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. The law shall enter into force on 1 January 2023. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U118	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U119	So, all the proposals have been examined. I invite you to support the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance” at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U120	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance” third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Vocational Education”, third reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Arvils Asheraden.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U121	Hello, dear colleagues! Let's see the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Vocational Education". A total of 41 proposals have been examined by the Commission. So it's 1. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. There is a need to clarify the term "a strategy for the development of vocational education and training institutions" by stating that other vocational education and training institutions... that vocational education institutions develop it for a period of seven years rather than five years. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U122	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U123	2. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U124	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U125	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U126	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U127	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U128	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U129	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U130	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U131	6. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. Partially supported and included 9. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U132	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U133	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U134	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U135	8 / 8 - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U136	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U137	9. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U138	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U139	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. Partially supported and included 11. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U140	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U141	11. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U142	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U143	12. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U144	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U145	13. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U146	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U147	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U148	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U149	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U150	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U151	16. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U152	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U153	17. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission has partially supported and included 18. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U154	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U155	Proposal No 18 Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U156	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U157	19. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U158	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U159	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U160	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U161	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission has partially supported and included 22. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U162	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U163	22. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U164	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U165	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U166	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U167	24. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partially supported and included 25. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U168	Members agree
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U169	25. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U170	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U171	26. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U172	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U173	27. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U174	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U175	28. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U176	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U177	29. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U178	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U179	30. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U180	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U181	31. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U182	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U183	32. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U184	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U185	33. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U186	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U187	34. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U188	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U189	35. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U190	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U191	36. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. The Commission has partially supported and included 37. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U192	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U193	37. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U194	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U195	38. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. Partly supported and included 39. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U196	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U197	39. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U198	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U199	40. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. Partly supported and included 41. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U200	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U201	41. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U202	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U203	Therefore, colleagues, all the proposals have been examined. I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U204	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Vocational Education” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The law is passed. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Education Act’, third reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Arvils Asheraden.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U205	Thank you. Colleagues, let's see the bill "Amendments to the Education Act". 1. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U206	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U207	2. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U208	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U209	3. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U210	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U211	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U212	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U213	5. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U214	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U215	6. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U216	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U217	7. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U218	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U219	8 / 8 - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U220	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U221	9. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U222	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U223	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U224	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U225	11. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U226	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U227	12. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. The Commission has partially supported and included 13. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U228	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U229	13. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U230	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U231	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U232	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U233	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission has partially supported and included16. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U234	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U235	16. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U236	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U237	17. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U238	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U239	18. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. The Commission has partially supported and included 19. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U240	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U241	19. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U242	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U243	So, colleagues, we have examined all the proposals for the draft law "Amendments to the Education Act". I call for the third, final, reading draft law to be voted on.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U244	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Education Act” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education”, third reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Arvils Asheraden.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U245	Thank you. Colleagues, we start to examine the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education” in the third, final, reading. The Commission has received 35 proposals. 1. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U246	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U247	2. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U248	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U249	3. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U250	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U251	4. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U252	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U253	5. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U254	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U255	6. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U256	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U257	7. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U258	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U259	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission has partially supported and included 9. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U260	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U261	9. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U262	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U263	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U264	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U265	11. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. The Commission has partially supported and included 12. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U266	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U267	12. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U268	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U269	13. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. The Commission has partially supported and included 14. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U270	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U271	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U272	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U273	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U274	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U275	16. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U276	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U277	17. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U278	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U279	18. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U280	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U281	19. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U282	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U283	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U284	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U285	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U286	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U287	22. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U288	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U289	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. The Commission has partially supported and included 24. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U290	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U291	24. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U292	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U293	25. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission has partially supported and included 26. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U294	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U295	26. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U296	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U297	27. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U298	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U299	28. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U300	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U301	29. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U302	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U303	30. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U304	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U305	31. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U306	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U307	32. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U308	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U309	33. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U310	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U311	34. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. The Commission has partially supported and included 35. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U312	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U313	35. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U314	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U315	We have therefore examined all 35 proposals. I call on the Saeima to vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Higher Education, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U316	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U317	Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U318	Draft law on the amendment to the electoral law of the European Parliament, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U319	Dear Members, Honourable Members! The Legal Commission has examined the draft law on the amendment to the electoral law of the European Parliament and has decided to support it and direct it to the Parliamentary sitting at first reading. The purpose of the draft law is to align the legal framework for Members of the European Parliament convicted of committing a criminal offence with what is provided for in cases where a criminal offence has been committed by a Member of the Saeima. The question of where a Member of the European Parliament can be withdrawn and when his mandate expires has been left to the European Union's regulatory framework for the functioning of the European Parliament by each Member State. Thus, in view of the fact that the procedure for the withdrawal of a Member of the European Parliament is not laid down in Latvian law, if one of the members of the European Parliament elected by Latvia were to waive parliamentary immunity and be extradited for criminal prosecution and sentenced for committing a criminal offence, this conviction would enter into force, the parliamentary officer would nevertheless retain his mandate and Latvia could not delegate another to work in the European Parliament. It is therefore necessary to lay down the procedure for the withdrawal of a Member of the European Parliament convicted of a criminal offence from the office of a Member of the European Parliament. I would also like to add that in the debate on this draft law at first reading, the Legal Commission decided that, when examining the proposals put forward for second reading, it would also decide whether to improve and how to improve the regulation of the law on other possible cases of withdrawal of a Member of the European Parliament, as well as its legal provisions, where... the procedure for applying it, including the procedure for notification. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U320	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on the European Parliament Election Law. Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 70, for - 12, for - 1. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U321	On behalf of the Legal Commission, please set a deadline for the second reading - 23 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U322	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 23 September this year. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Expropriation of Public Property”, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission – Member Inga Goldberga.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U323	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government has examined and supported, at first reading, the draft law drawn up by the Ministry of the Interior “Amendment to the Law on Expropriation of Property of Public Person” (No. 1547/Lp13). The draft law provides that the provisions of the Law on the Expropriation of Property of a Public Person shall not apply if the state property used for the implementation of measures ensuring operational activities, the true belonging to which is hidden, provides that the decision on disposal of this property shall be taken by the head of the entity of operational activities, is to be disposed of. In turn, the property, whose true belonging is not hidden, is disposed of in accordance with the general procedure laid down in the Law on the Sale of Property of a Public Person. After hearing the parties involved, including representatives of the National Police, the Commission supported the draft laws at first reading. On behalf of the Commission, I also call on you to support the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U324	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Expropriation of Public Property” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U325	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 20 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U326	So the deadline for the proposals is 20 September this year. Dear colleagues, it's time for a break. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name Inese Voika to report the results of the registration as soon as the results are available.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U327	Not registered: Boriss Cilevičs, Anda Čakša, Janina Jalinska, Ieva Krapāne, Edgars Kucins, Evija Papule (Dep. E. Papule: “I am!” )... Evija Papule is, Juris Pūce, Jānis Tutins, Jānis Urbanovičs, Jānis Vitenbergs, Gatis Zamurs and Evita Zālīte-Gross. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U328	Interruption until 3.30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U329	Dear colleagues, I call for seats to be held in the Saeima's meeting room. We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on Creeding Companies’, first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Budget and Financial Taxation, Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U330	Dear Chairman and fellow Members of the Saeima. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Corporate Governance’ (No. 1557/Lp13) before first reading. The purpose of this draft law is to protect non-member recipients of savings services; to specify the conditions for increasing the assets and share capital of the credit institution; to strengthen the internal control mechanisms of credit institutions; and to promote capital adequacy. The Commission has examined and supported the progress of draft laws at first reading in the Saeima. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U331	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Corporate Governance”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 63, against and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U332	September 22nd. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U333	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 22 September this year. Draft law ‘Amendments to the law on the declaration of cash at the national border’, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U334	Colleagues, this draft law ensures direct application of the European Union regulation in Latvia regarding the control of cash at the state border. The amendment to the draft law extends the definition of cash to include travel cheques, bills and high liquidity items, as well as prepaid cards. It specifies the functions of the controlling competent authorities, such as the State Revenue Service and the Financial Intelligence Service. The form to be used to ensure that all Member States apply these rules in a uniform manner is also clarified and administrative responsibility is established for the transfer of the amounts not declared - up to 20 per cent of the value of the amount. The Commission supported the draft law at first reading. I also call on the Saeima to do so.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U335	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on “Amendments to the Law on the Declaration of Cash at the State Border”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 69, against and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U336	One week, September 22.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U337	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 22 September this year. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on Land Guard of the Republic of Latvia”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Raimonds Bergmanis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U338	Hello, dear colleagues! The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption reviewed draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Land Guard of the Republic of Latvia” at its meeting on 7 September this year (No. 1426/Lp13) at second reading. These amendments are related to the Bank of Latvia, and the next draft law we will look at is related to the activities of the Bank of Latvia. No proposals were received for the second reading. I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U339	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law of the Republic of Latvia on Land Guards” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one to - 67, against and refrain from - 67. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U340	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 20 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U341	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 20 September this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the National Armed Forces”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Raimonds Bergmanis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U342	At the same meeting of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption on 7 September, the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the National Armed Forces” (No. 1427/Lp13) at second reading. As I said, it is also related to the activities of the Bank of Latvia. Two proposals were received for this draft law. 1. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. This is due to changes in terminology, the introduction of the term ‘military staff’. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U343	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U344	2. - also a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. It is related to the time of the entry into force of the law and intends to replace the figures and words ‘1 January 2023’ with ‘1 November 2022’ by the words ‘1 November 2022’. This proposal is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U345	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U346	All the proposals have therefore been examined. I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U347	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the National Armed Forces” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U348	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 20 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U349	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 20 September this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Railway Act”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Sandis Riekstins.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U350	Hello, colleagues! The Commission of Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Railway Law” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers (No. 1560/ Lp 13), decided to support the draft law and to direct it to the first reading of the Saeima. The draft law was drafted by the Ministry of Transport and its aim is to update the use of the state owned or agreed land in the railway infrastructure area, in accordance with the current regulatory enactments and implementing the Cabinet of Ministers Protocol No. 18 and the fulfilment of the tasks set out in the Prime Minister’s resolution. The Commission has supported the draft law. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U351	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on amendments to the Railway Law at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 70, it's against and abstains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U352	The deadline for submitting proposals is 22 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U353	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 22 September this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Aviation”, second reading. Member Viesturs Liepkalns on behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U354	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Dear colleagues, The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined and prepared for consideration at the Saeima’s sitting the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Aviation”” (No. 1510/Lp13) for second reading. I would remind you that the draft law is designed to determine the possibility of implementing a construction project in the territories around the military aerodromes and military airfields and to determine the procedure for compensating the related expenses for the operation of the state defence object. No proposals were received by the Commission. The Commission decided to support the draft law at second reading. I also call on you to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U355	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Aviation” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 71, for - no, for - 1. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U356	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 22 September of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U357	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 22 September this year. Draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on Budget and Financial Management’, second reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U358	Madam President, Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues! We are working on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Budgetary and Financial Management”. Draft law for second reading. 17 proposals have been received. I would like to remind you why the draft law was presented. Firstly, so that we take a historic decision and we do not have to look in the budget at the very nature of the same proposals twice in a row (i.e. to make a significant economisation of time). Secondly, to have a financial and economic debate in the Saeima from April next year. That's important, because otherwise we're from this section... We've been all right through. On the proposals. All 17 proposals submitted come from the Minister of Finance. 1. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. It is presented according to the reason for the change. And supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U359	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U360	2. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Technical. Supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U361	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U362	3. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. This is a clarification of the definition. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U363	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U364	4. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Clarifying the definition. Supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U365	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U366	5. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. This is a clarification of the definition. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U367	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U368	6. - the proposal by the Minister of Finance, Mr Reira, which is submitted in line with the objectives of the change. And supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U369	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U370	7. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. This is a technical clarification. And it is supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U371	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U372	8 / 8 - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. These are presented in line with the objectives of the change. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U373	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U374	9. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. It's technical. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U375	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U376	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. This provides for the exclusion of the second paragraph of Article 22. This is supported by a corresponding change in the numbering of the following articles.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U377	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U378	11. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. This is supported by a corresponding change in the numbering of the following articles.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U379	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U380	12. - Minister of Finance, John... Oh, no... Yes, it's from bill No. 1561/Lp13.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U381	Yeah, just like the 11th proposal was... This included draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U382	Yeah, just like 11. Yeah. And this is a revision of the version. Supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U383	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U384	13. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. In line with the objectives of change... And this is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U385	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U386	Proposal 14 is from Draft Law No. 1561/Lp13. This is supported by a corresponding change in the numbering of the following articles.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U387	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U388	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U389	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U390	16. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. In line with the objectives of the law and the new situation... It is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U391	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U392	Finally, Proposal No 17 - Draft Law No. 1561/Lp13. The proposal is supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U393	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U394	Thank you. We have therefore examined all the proposals. Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U395	Please call me! We will vote on the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Budget and Financial Management" at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U396	The deadline for submitting proposals is five days - until 20 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U397	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 20 September this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism and Proliferation”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Atis Zakaistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U398	Colleagues! In the Commission we worked on a draft law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism and Proliferation (No. 1324/Lp13), we prepared it for second reading. Four proposals have been received. 1. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U399	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U400	2. - Mr Zakatistova, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, my proposal. Sets the order in which the entities of the law... how to deal with non-compliant entities. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U401	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U402	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Clarifying. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U403	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U404	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Clarifying. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U405	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U406	Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U407	Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism and Proliferation”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U408	The proposals are due to expire on 20 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U409	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 20 September this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Information Systems of the Territories”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U410	Good afternoon! For a start, see the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Information System of the Territories” (No. 1491/Lp13), which is prepared for second reading by the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. 1. - Proposal by Ilona Kronberga, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U411	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U412	2. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Partially supported, included 3. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U413	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U414	3. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U415	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U416	4. - Proposal by Ilona Kronberga, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U417	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U418	5. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U419	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U420	6. - Proposal by Ilona Kronberga, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U421	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U422	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is partly supported and included in 9. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U423	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U424	8 / 8 - Proposal by Ilona Kronberga, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice. This is also partly supported and included in 9. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U425	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U426	9. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U427	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U428	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U429	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U430	All the proposals have been examined. I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U431	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Information Systems of the Occupied Territories”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U432	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 22 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U433	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 22 September this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Protection Zones”, second reading. Member Viesturs Liepkalns on behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U434	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined and prepared for second reading the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Protection Zones” (No. 1509/Lp13). The draft law has been designed to establish an opportunity for implementation of construction projects in defence bands around state defence facilities, providing for the procedure of reimbursement of related expenses for the operation of state defence facilities. A total of 11 proposals were received and examined by the Commission. 1. - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ilze Indrickson. Proposals 1 to 5 as well as 9 can be viewed together in substance, so I will give the most important part to proposal 1. These are the proposals made by the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ilze Indicicsone, which proposes to withdraw protection zones around wind power plants within the framework of the Protection Zone Law. In particular, provision shall be made for the deletion of either the term or Article concerned or the references to those Articles. Having assessed the regulation of existing protection bands, the Ministry of Economics has concluded that the protection zone as a burden and the restrictions that it agrees with no longer has any basis, taking into account technological aspects and their development since the development of this regulation 20 years ago. The proposal provides for the exclusion of the words ‘around wind power plants’ in the first paragraph of Article 29. This proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U435	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U436	2. - the proposal by the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ilze Indicicenes, which provides for the exclusion of paragraph 3 of the second paragraph in Article 29. This proposal was also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U437	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U438	3. - the proposal by the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ilze Indicicenes, which provides for the exclusion of Article 32.1. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U439	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U440	4. - the proposal by the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ilze Indricksones, which provides for the exclusion of the figure "32.1" in the second paragraph of Article 33. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U441	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U442	5. - the proposal by the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ilze Indricksones, which provides for the exclusion of the figure "32.1" in the ninth paragraph of Article 33. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U443	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U444	6. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It is partly supported and included 7. - in the proposal of Minister for Finance Janis Reira.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U445	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U446	And seven. - the proposal by the Minister of Finance Mr. John Reira, which intends to reword the article of the bill. Pursuant to the law on disposal of the assets of a public person, the State may dispose of land and municipality to the municipality - to dispose of land not only by transferring it free of charge, but also by making a change, therefore, it is planned to incorporate this proposal into the draft law also for the application of the alternative to the transfer. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U447	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U448	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Legal Bureau aimed at clarifying the existing version. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U449	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U450	9. - the proposal by the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ilze Indicicenes, which provides for the exclusion of Article 58.1. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U451	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U452	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U453	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U454	And 11. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission at its meeting on 15 December 2021...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U455	That's it, 11. - the last one - the proposal is supported by Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U456	Okay, okay, okay, I just report just about the substance of the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U457	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U458	Yeah, that's...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U459	There was no objection. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U460	... At the meeting of 15 December 2021, when examining the draft law on “Amendments to the Law on Protection Zones” (No. The Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development was instructed to prepare a proposal for regulation on the application of the Baltic Sea and Riga Gulf coast guard band, until local municipality plans are improved in accordance with the current regulation. The proposal in question has been developed in cooperation with the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. And the Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U461	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U462	Very good. Ladies and gentlemen, we have examined all 11 proposals submitted. I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U463	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Protection Zone Law at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U464	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 22 September of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U465	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 22 September this year. On the agenda - draft law on the accession of the Ministry of Defence of Hungary to the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the National Defence Department of Canada, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Denmark, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of the Republic of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Department of Defence of the United States of America on the establishment, administration and operation of the Centre of Excellence of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation for Strategic Communications of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of Defence of the Republic of Canada, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of the Republic of Canada, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Ministry of Defence of Defence of the Federal Defence of the Federal Defence of the Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the Slovak Republic of the United and the United States of Defence and the United States Department of Defence of Defence, the United States, as well-to-established's's's's's's's's's'''''s''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''' On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Member Krista Baumane.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U466	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Draft Law No 1543/Lp13 is about Hungary joining the NATO Strategic Communication Centre of Excellence. ( Interface: “Sorry in more detail! ”) ) Foreign Affairs Commission (interim.) ... The Foreign Affairs Commission, acting unanimously at its meeting on 7 September at 10 a.m., supported the examination of these draft laws at first reading. Unanimous. I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U467	Please call me! We will vote on draft law on the accession of the Ministry of Defence of Hungary to the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the National Defence Department of Canada, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Denmark, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of the Republic of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Department of Defence of the United States of America on the establishment, administration and operation of the Centre of Excellence of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation on Strategic Communications of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of Defence of the National Defence of the Republic of Canada, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of the Republic of Estonia, the Ministry of Defence of the Federal Defence of the Federal Defence of the Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of Defence of the Federal Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of Defence of Defence of the Republic of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of Great and Northern Britain and the Defence of the United States Department of Defence of Defence of the United States, as well-established Senior Authority for the first-run ‘Trans-run ‘Trans-led’s’ (Sup). Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please have a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U468	The deadline for submitting proposals is 10 days, or 25 September of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U469	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 25 September this year. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on National Security”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Ivan Klementjev.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U470	Hello, Madam President. Dear colleagues, We are working on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on National Security” (No. 1410/Lp13) at second reading. Four proposals have been made. 1. - a proposal from the finance minister, Mr Reira. The request to replace the words ‘the Financial and Capital Market Commission’ in the second, third and fifth paragraphs, with ‘the Bank of Latvia’. The Commission supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U471	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U472	2. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. The Commission supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U473	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U474	3. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Requirement to exclude the words ‘and capital’ from paragraph 1 of the third paragraph of Article 39. The Commission was in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U475	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U476	And 4. - the last - including the proposal by Minister of Finance Reira. The request to replace the words ‘the Financial and Capital Market Commission’ by ‘the Bank of Latvia’ shall be replaced by ‘the Bank of Latvia’. The Commission supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U477	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U478	In general, the Commission also supported this draft law at second reading. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U479	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on National Security Act! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was approved at second reading. Please have a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U480	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 22 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U481	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 22 September this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Mobility”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Ivan Klementjev.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U482	The Commission examined the draft law amending the Mobility Act (No. 1411/Lp13) at second reading. No proposals have been submitted. Overall, the Commission supported this draft law at second reading. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U483	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Mobility” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U484	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 22 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U485	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 22 September this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Land Guard of the Republic of Latvia”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Ivan Klementjev.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U486	The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption reviewed the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Land Guard of the Republic of Latvia” (No. 1409/Lp13). This draft law provides that in case of the mobilisation of landguards, the landguards are counted into the active service. The procedure by which national guards are credited to the active service in case of mobilisation shall be determined by the Minister of Defence. 1. - a proposal from the Minister of Defence, Mr Pabriks. Designed for non-military mobilisation and advanced preparedness regime. It is the President of Latvia, the Member of the Saeima, the Secretary General of the Saeima Administration and the Presidium of the Saeima, members of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Commissioners of the European Union, the Ombudsman and the President and Vice-Presidents of the Bank of Latvia, the Constitutional Court... and so on, and so on. It's a taste list. The Commission supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U487	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U488	2. - a proposal from the Minister of Defence, Mr Pabriks. Execution of the Landguard's service as well. It is also planned to participate in combat preparedness tests, which are organised according to the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers... “To 72 hours every two years - to participate in combat preparedness checks, which are organised in accordance with the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers; to 72 hours every two years; to participate in combat preparedness checks, which are organised in accordance with the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers, in case of the mobilisation of landguards, until the day when the decision of the Cabinet expires.” The Commission supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U489	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U490	3. - a proposal from the Minister of Defence, Mr Pabriks. It's also a... in the first subparagraph, the word and the number ‘to 55’ shall be deleted; The Commission supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U491	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U492	4. - The proposal from Member Māra Možville. Request to replace the number ‘55’ in the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law with the number ‘65’. The Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U493	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U494	5. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Pabrik. In addition to Article 14, paragraph 5.1: “The commission set up by the Minister of Defence may, in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Cabinet of Ministers, authorise the admission of a Latvian citizen who has been retired from military or other public service or who has been excluded from the Land Guard for disciplinary violations into the Land Guard but not earlier than five years after the date of his leave or exclusion.” The Commission supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U495	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U496	6. - a proposal from the Minister of Defence, Mr Pabriks. A maximum age is foreseen for the service in Earthguard. Here it is mentioned that the maximum age for the service in the Land Guard is 65 years, with the exception of landguard specialists, landguard instructors and officers of landguards. The Commission supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U497	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U498	7. - a proposal from the Minister of Defence, Mr Pabriks. Provision is made for compensation to the landguard. If he has successfully participated in the Earthguard tasks and training process for more than 30 days in a calendar year, he may receive compensation once a year. The Commission supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U499	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U500	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. It is foreseen that ‘the Landguard shall pay compensation of three months' salaries according to the service of the Landguard and the post to be occupied, if the Landguard has at least secondary education, training of the Commander of the Landguard, appointment of the Landguard as a officer and award of a lieutenant’. The Commission supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U501	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U502	9. - also a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. In Article 35, first paragraph, point 3, the words ‘at the date of his duties’ shall be deleted. The Commission supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U503	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U504	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - also a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. It shall be provided that in the first subparagraph the words ‘material loss’ are replaced by the words ‘asset loss’. The Commission supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U505	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U506	11. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. A procedure for the recovery of damages is provided for. The Commission supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U507	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U508	12. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Pabrik. Partially supported, included 13. - the Commission's proposal. In the Commission...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U509	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U510	13. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Provision shall be made for damages. The Commission supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U511	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U512	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Defence, Mr Pabriks. Tasks of the Earth Guard Veterans. According to the Office of the SRSG on Children and Armed Conflict, he was responsible for recruitment and use of children in Ituri from 2002 to 2003. The Commission supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U513	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U514	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Defence, Mr Pabriks. The compensation is provided for the Veterans that ‘For one of the eight hours of the task of the Land Guard Veterans provided for in Article 44 of this Law, the Veterans of the Land Guard receive compensation of EUR 30, as well as the maintenance dose or compensation thereof for the soldier’. The Commission supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U515	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U516	16. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Pabrik. Provisions: “If the Veterans of the Land Guard have suffered health damage in the performance of the tasks provided for in this Law, he shall be entitled to paid health care in accordance with the procedure and in the amount prescribed by the Cabinet of Ministers.” The Commission supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U517	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U518	And the last one is 17. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. It is envisaged to supplement the transitional provisions with paragraph 18 as follows: ‘The compensation provided for in Section 34(15) of this Law shall also apply to the landguard who has obtained at least secondary education after successfully completing the training of the commander of the Landguard, has been awarded a lieutenant rank and the landguard has been appointed as officer from 1 September 2020.’ The Commission supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U519	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U520	All the proposals have been examined. And the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption has supported this draft law for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U521	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Republic of Latvia on Land Guards” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was approved at second reading. Please have a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U522	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 22 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U523	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 22 September this year. Draft law “Rail Baltica Project Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Sandis Riekstins.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U524	The Commission of Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined the draft law “Rail Baltica Project Law” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers (No. 1569/Lp13) and decided to support and direct it to the plenary session at first reading. The draft law has been drafted by the Ministry of Transport and its aim is to promote the construction and implementation of a national facility of national interest - Rail Baltica, a European standard-wide public railway infrastructure, within a given time limit. The Commission has supported the draft law. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U525	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Rail Baltica Project Law” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U526	The deadline for submitting proposals is 22 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U527	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 22 September this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Private Pension Funds Act”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Vita Anda Steel. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U528	Colleagues! The draft law “Amendments to the Private Pension Fund Law” is designed to create legal conditions for the registration and distribution of pan-European private pension products in Latvia and to implement the requirements of the European Parliament and Council regulations on pan-European private pension products (PPE) in national legislation, thus ensuring direct application of these regulations. The Pan-European Private Pension Product Plan provides an alternative to the third level of the Latvian pension system, focuses on voluntary participation, long-term and ensures portability in Europe. This does not change the current (Sitting driver knocks down with a hammer.) In the Latvian pension system, but it complements it. This will help shift savings towards capital markets and boost investment and growth in the EU. The more savings, the more investment funds, the more benefits of the PEF Plan are competition and more choice, the wider range of financial institutions for the provision and distribution of the PEF Plan will be defined. This ensures portability. Savings can be brought to another country, which will increase the attractiveness of pension services, especially among young people and mobile workers. Financial institutions will be able to provide their PPP plan with a single registration across the European Union. The draft law comes with a package of draft laws as it is also necessary to amend the laws and regulations of entities that will be entitled to register and distribute this plan. These will be the next six draft laws on our agenda today. But first of all about the draft law itself, ‘Amendments to the Private Pension Funds Act’. The Commission has asked for urgency to examine this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U529	Members have not applied to speak about urgency. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Private Pension Funds”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U530	The Commission has supported the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U531	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading draft law on Amendments to the Private Pension Funds Act! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U532	Deadline for tabling proposals - 29 September, second, final reading - Parliament at its meeting on 13 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U533	Consequently, the deadline for the proposals - 29 September this year, consideration at the Saeima sitting - 13 October this year. Draft Act Amending the Law on Credit Institutions, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U534	To ensure the direct applicability of the PEF Regulation, we need to amend the laws and regulations of all entities that will be entitled to register and distribute the PEF plan. Amendments are required by the law on credit institutions. The Commission also requests urgency for this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U535	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U536	The Commission has supported the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U537	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U538	Submission of proposals - 29 September, consideration - Meeting of the Saeima on 13 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U539	Deadline for the proposals - 29 September this year, consideration by the Saeima - 13 October this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Investment Management Companies”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U540	This draft law also requires amendments, as investment management companies will be one of those who will be able to register and distribute the PEF plan. The Commission is asking for urgency for this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U541	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Investment Management Companies”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U542	The Commission supported the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U543	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading draft law on Amendments to the Law on Investment Management Companies! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U544	Proposals - September 29, consideration - October 13 of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U545	Consideration of the proposals - 29 September this year - Parliament at its meeting on 13 October this year. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and their Managers’, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U546	Alternative investment funds will also be the registrants and distributors of PPPs. The Commission is asking for urgency for this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U547	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the urgent recognition of the draft law on Alternative Investment Funds and their Managers! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U548	The Commission has supported the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U549	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and their Managers! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U550	Deadline for tabling proposals - September 29, consideration - October 13th Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U551	Discussion of the proposals - 29 September this year - at the sitting of the Saeima on 13 October this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Insurance and Reinsurance Act”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U552	These amendments are also part of a package that empowers institutions in Latvia to deal with the PEPP plan. The Commission is asking for urgency for this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U553	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Insurance and Reinsurance” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U554	The Commission has supported the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U555	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading draft law on Amendments to the Insurance and Reinsurance Act! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U556	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 29 September, consideration by the Saeima at its sitting - 13 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U557	Deadline for the proposals - 29 September this year, consideration at the Saeima sitting - 13 October this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Distribution of Insurance and Reinsurance”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U558	This draft law is also part of the package. The Commission is asking for urgency - just like others.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U559	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Distribution of Insurance and Reinsurance” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U560	The Commission supported the first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U561	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Distribution of Insurance and Reinsurance”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for consideration of the proposals and the time limit for consideration at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U562	Deadline for tabling proposals - September 29, consideration - October 13th Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U563	Deadline for the proposals - 29 September this year, consideration by the Saeima - 13 October this year. Draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on Investment firms’, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U564	This is the final draft law in the legislative package, which will also give the right to help brokers deal with PEPP plans. The Commission is asking for urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U565	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on investment firms "Amendments to the law on investment firms! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U566	The Commission supported the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U567	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Investment firms! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for consideration of the proposals and the time limit for consideration at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U568	Deadline for tabling proposals - September 29, consideration - October 13th Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U569	Thank you. Discussion of the proposals - 29 September this year - sitting of the Saeima on 13 October. Draft law “Law on the management of grants managed by the European Cybersecurity Competences Centre during the programming period 2021-2027”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Reinis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U570	Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Law on the management of grants managed by the European Cybersecurity Competences Centre during the planning period 2021-2027” (No. 1558/Lp13). This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme or measures coming under this item, and any other expenditure on technical and administrative assistance not involving public authority tasks outsourced by the Commission under ad hoc service contracts. The aim of the draft law is to ensure effective, transparent and correct implementation of grants managed by the European Cybersecurity Competence Center in Latvia, which complies with the principles of sound financial management. Such a law will be particularly important in the context of Europe, as the number of cyber attacks doubled between 2020 and 2021 in most European Union countries. Therefore, it is important to develop both start-ups and Latvia's capacity to respond to growing cyber threats. In the budget and financial (tax) commission, we have examined this draft law, supported it, and we ask for it to be urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U571	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on the management of grants managed by the European Cybersecurity Competence Center during the planning period 2021-2027! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U572	I call for support to be given to the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U573	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading draft law “Law on the management of grants managed by the European Cybersecurity Competences Centre during the planning period 2021-2027”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for consideration of the proposals and the time limit for consideration at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U574	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 22 September this year, and consideration at the sitting of the Saeima - 29 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U575	Thank you. Deadline for the proposals - 22 September this year, consideration at the Saeima sitting - 29 September this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Arms Movement Act”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Edwin Šnore.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U576	Hello, dear colleagues! The Saeima Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption in its meeting yesterday was examining the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Arms Movement”. Its aim is to limit the movement of weapons. It is about Russian and Belarusian citizens who have the right to reside in the Republic of Latvia and non-citizens of Latvia. At the Commission meeting, we wanted to expand the argument on the movement of weapons among non-citizens, so I will mention the main arguments here. They are related to public opinion studies in Latvia after the annexation of Crimea 2014. In 2016, the Security and Strategic Research Centre of the Latvian National Defence Academy carried out a study that found that more than 40 percent of non-citizens surveyed believe that Russian-speaking rights in Latvia are violated to such an extent that Russian intervention is necessary and justified. It was also found in this study that there were more of the non-citizens surveyed in Latgale who showed that in case of war they would support Russia than those who would support Latvia. Finally, this year's study by the Ebert Foundation, published in July by the magazine Ir, concluded that the most supporters of Russian aggression were in the category of non-citizens in Latvia. These are basic arguments which have led to changes in the conditions for the movement of weapons to those categories of the population. The Commission examined this draft law and supported it for its first reading. Please support the urgency of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U577	Mr. Clementyev, you didn't want to talk about urgency, did you? Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Arms”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 61, for - 14, for - 1. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U578	The Commission supported the draft law for first reading and calls on the Saeima to support it at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U579	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivan Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U580	Dear colleagues, This is a very serious bill. The Commission examined it yesterday, also debated it, but since this draft law is being seen in a rather hasty manner, it was not possible to request any additional data or to assess what happened to its owners... with weapons. It is currently planned that the weapons permits issued to both Belarusian and Russian citizens will be revoked with effect from 1 June 2023. But this draft law... on 189 citizens of the Russian Federation and four citizens of the Republic of Belarus... If I look from that point that these people can be affected - in the case of an invasion by neighbouring countries in our country - then... 189 and four - 193 people - with your gun or with hunting weapons (I want to remind you that they are not automatic weapons, they are hunting weapons)... It must be difficult for them to influence something in that invasion. But if there are, for example, a special group, so-called specnaz, with 190 people, all with automatic weapons, with stingers, then... Of course, then professional soldiers can be affected. But I want to remind you that in order to get an arms permit, both Latvian citizens and other citizens... that there is a very complex procedure for obtaining an authorisation for the possession or possession or use of weapons for hunting purposes. It costs money, and you also need to follow strict rules, and the police come home from time to time and check how you store those weapons. And we need to shoot out our weapons from time to time. So everything is very well controlled by the Ministry of the Interior. If you're a hunter... I don't know if there's a hunter here, maybe someone is... It should also be borne in mind that hunters are testing every person who wants to join their hunting group. And if you're like an inadequate person, then who's the main person in that hunting association will hardly take you in his group because there can be a big problem. So far, according to statistics, there are no violations both for Russian citizens who have a permit for weapons and for Belarus... there are no violations of both the carrying and holding of weapons. I do not believe that these people are threatening the national security of our country. Yesterday, the commission was in such a version that national security... The Academy forms a research in the Latgale area and surveyes people, and I guess there's a lot of interest... that they are not loyal, in the event of an invasion, they will fight on the other side. It was noted in that report, but I did not read it myself, we did not have a report of this kind. But today I tried to open national security... study of the Academy. The study is available in English, but unfortunately it cannot be loaded. So... Well, I don't know who wrote that study there. And that is why the Social Democratic Party 'Harmony' is opposed to this bill and will vote 'no'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U581	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U582	On behalf of the Commission, I can add that the study referred to by Mr Klementjeva has also been presented in our commission in particular, shown on the wall as a PPT. There was a chance to get to know it. Thank you. That's it.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U583	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Arms"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for consideration of the proposals and the time limit for consideration at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U584	The deadline for submitting proposals is 21 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U585	And consideration of the Saeima sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U586	Review of the Saeima sitting - September 29.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U587	Thank you. Deadline for the proposals - 21 September this year, consideration by the Saeima - 29 September this year. Next, honourable colleagues, the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Immigration" (No. 1592/Lp13) tabled by Members Jānis Dombrava, Rihards Kols, Juris Rancāns, Krišjānis Feldmans, Edwins Šnore and Ainars Bauskis. There is also a draft law on ‘Amendments to the Immigration Act’ (No. 1600/Lp13) submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. And there is an alternative draft law drawn up by the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption, Amendment to the Immigration Act (No. 1677/Lp13). Member of the Commission responsible, namely the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption, Edwin Snore.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U588	The Commission examined these draft laws at its meeting yesterday. It was decided that the first two drafts would be merged into one and an alternative draft was prepared. Therefore, on behalf of the Commission, I am calling for the first draft law referred to here, Amendment to the Immigration Act (No. 1592/Lp13) to reject.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U589	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on all three draft laws is taking place at the same time. Now we are opening a debate on all three draft laws. ( Internouncing call.) Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U590	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, It seems to me that a non-selective ban on Russian citizens visiting Latvia may have serious consequences for the Latvian economy, namely in the real estate sector. Several representatives of the real estate sector regret that already this segment is stagnating, prices are falling and that this season there will also be apartments and houses that cannot be managed. Several people who own legal property in Latvia will not be able to come to our country, so in a very short time - in three months! - these assets will be available to creditors, namely bailiffs and insolvency administrators. In my opinion, it is the composition of the applicants (two parties - the National Union and the Conservatives) that shows that this bill will be in favour of this tsunami, and it will be in favour of this tsunami. Please do not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U591	Name to Member Ivan Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U592	Dear colleagues, There were times when we were afraid to open up the Immigration Law for decades at all. Now we open it very often, and unfortunately we always do it as hasty. We cannot go into that bill. Above all, the changes that we want to make in this law will be difficult to implement. We see what happened in the Ministry of the Interior, in the Office of Citizenship and Migration Affairs - this year they should have issued 640 thousand new documents of the Republic of Latvia - to issue new or exchange ID cards and passports - but they were unable to do so. We should have changed... A month ago we amended the law to extend the term of an ID card or passport to people to the next year and they could participate in the Saeima elections. Well, it's an emergency! But when we talked and asked (for how long!) to allocate additional funds or increase capacity in terms of people, staff, numbers, unfortunately this was not done because there are no free people, trained people who can sit there and work there to issue a document... if you have no problems. I want to remind you, for every document issued by the PMLP, people pay money, but... it is not. And the fact that we are now asking to cancel... or to demand that thousands of people also have the knowledge of the national language - either, it does not enter anything, so to speak, in European frames. Do you see, for example, in a European country that would expel a person simply because he does not know how to speak that or another language? If an organization invites a person to work at a university or university so that he can read lectures, then that university is responsible for the language in which the professor or professors will read their lectures... they are responsible for this. On the issue of the withdrawal of temporary residence permits, I would like to remind you that when we had an economic crisis, it was passed here in the Saeima, the rule that money... for a major contribution to the Latvian economy, people were able to obtain a residence permit. Around one billion had been invested in obtaining residence permits. While in the European Union for five years, of course, many of them do not live here; only bought or opened a business and left for another European Union country. But that mechanism was working. And they did not violate Latvia's state laws. And you know very well, if they had any debts or tax evasion, they didn't extend this... residence (not clear to be heard) . These are also people who are fulfilling their responsibilities and paying money for our economy, which is not so bad. Because this law cannot be enforced, there will once again be problems, and we will put even more pressure on the Ministry of the Interior, on the Authority for Citizenship and Migration Affairs. A political party will vote against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U593	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U594	With regard to the “Conciliation”, I wonder why they are often called the Kremlin Party... In this case, it is Russian citizens who will be subject to the law, and they are more concerned than Latvian citizens who, in some way, will also be subject to this law from a security point of view, for example, in the future, criminals will not be able to stay in Latvia (which I think is right if we are talking about Russian citizens) or those who do not pay taxes or those who receive a negative opinion from the security authorities. That is right, and it is very good that this draft law is moving forward. There are, of course, a number of provisions at second reading relating to this draft law that will need to be clarified, but I call for support for it and for it to be allowed to move forward.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U595	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U596	Dear President, Honourable Members! Recently, due to the various demonstrations that support Russia and condemn Ukraine, and the demonstrations that have taken place in NATO countries - USA, Canada -, allies - Australia, New Zealand, South Korea - and the European Union - in Germany, Italy, Greece, Malta and elsewhere... millions of Russian and former USSR citizens have participated in these demonstrations, with both residence permits, dual citizenship and triple citizenship, which have immigrated in these democratic countries. Those who are interested in these things can see a very good lesson from one former Russian special service officer who believes that there is an amazing carelessness in the European Union and NATO countries, bordering on folly. There are different ethnic groups that have gone through Soviet times. It is extremely interesting that ethnic Germans who have left and obtained various permits - either citizenship or residence permit - have immigrated to Germany. Most of them (after surveys) are still in favour of Russia, they are offended by the German authorities that they have been harmed with education, with other issues and that benefits are not high enough. ( Some have even three nationals, such as Abrahamovich, who has three passports: an Israeli, Portuguese and Russian passport.) These people spread Russian ideology everywhere. A large part of them are agents of various Russian special services. When we adopt these amendments to the Immigration Law, it is imperative that the security services be examined in the negotiations - not just at the embassy, but in the negotiations, in the dialogues - by anyone who wishes to obtain a temporary residence permit or by another arrival, asking for his opinion on issues such as the treatment of the occupation of the Baltic States, the treatment of the Ukrainian war and other issues. The evidence is also that the Russian specialists who were promoted here, IT company employees and others, wherever they come to work, lay out TV plates in mass with Russian propaganda channels and openly advertised Russkij die. This has been identified in these reports by the security services. Not that one or two, but most of the newcomers do not change their views. Security and special services in many countries have not created special sections of Russia and they have no experience to filter everything that is happening, but they are millions of propaganda carriers and russki die distributors. Especially in those companies where many refugees from the countries of the former Soviet Union or the USSR have been admitted. So I think... And there is also a warning: never to issue Schengen visas to anyone but to issue only national permits or, if there are no such in some countries, to create a national entry permit without the right to travel to other countries. I call for support for this draft law. And no specialists should be allowed to enter Latvia until they have been thoroughly tested in security services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U597	Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U598	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear Members, honourable Members, Thank you to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption for its rather operational work. We see that there are three draft laws relating to the immigration law. The final draft law, which is the compromise tabled by the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - I understand the alternative law - is a compromise solution. I will, of course, support this too. But why will I also vote in favour of this draft law, tabled by Members? It's more the way to the second reading. I understand that there was a wide-ranging discussion in the Commission on certain norms, where the Ministry of the Interior referred to the implementation of the European Union Directive, which confers rights on Russian citizens, third-country nationals, residence permits related, for example, to research work, projects, studies... to finish them, nine more months... Yes, I understand that the combination of words "European Union Directive" always... may be a whip, but please remember the very recent Council meeting of the European Union, which spoke about the visa ban on Russian citizens on a wider scale, and the main opinion that came from both the Council of the European Union and the European Commission, the Eastern European countries, especially those bordering Russia, can apply more stringent measures in their national regulation for the entry of Russian citizens... including in the countries of residence. Consequently, we see that a conditional soft restriction on visas has been adopted in the European Union - an extended deadline for the examination of applications, an increased amount of money to be paid for a visa but one - at the same time, the European Commission and the Council of the European Union make it clear that countries bordering the Russian Federation can introduce additional restrictions. The Baltic States and Poland have already decided not to allow Russian citizens who have been issued with the... Schengen visas have been issued, but here we are also talking about other legal reasons for stay. As I said, there is a European directive, the blue cards, which I still understand, remain in the version of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption. I allow Members to know the difference between a directive and a regulation. A Directive is a direction that is gradually being taken over by the Member States but also provides for derogations from the application of this Directive and, where national security is concerned, it may be an argument for a derogation from one or another of the provisions of the Directive... to apply to a particular Member State. I really call for strictness towards the citizens of the Russian Federation and for the right to a residence permit arising from Latvia's international obligations, that is, from the Convention on the Status of Refugees, from the asylum law... as well as family-related matters, including marriage rights, and guardianship. But with regard to everything else, we absolutely have to say that we do not issue time-limiting permits, whether this is related to scientific research, projects... I would also like to ask myself: which Latvian institution is currently carrying out research projects with one of the state or municipal institutions of the Russian Federation? I think we're going to turn... this way. a clear signal. The other thing, which also does not appear in the alternative version of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption, which I understand Members agreed conceptually... I understand that many people have concerns about what those Russian citizens who work for a long time here and who are married will do. To the second reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Immigration, we will submit a proposal that the Minister of the Interior has the right to grant a temporary residence permit in specific cases. Colleagues, this is the time when we have to make a general audit of what, how and to what extent has been issued. I do not think that those who have worked for a long time here will have a problem with maintaining a residence permit, but each case should be assessed on its own. And they will not be tens of thousands, we know what the number is, but in the present situation we need to move towards much stricter regulation. I call for the second reading to be accompanied by appropriate adjustments and for no fear of a combination of words - that in such a case, the European Union directive will be violated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U599	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U600	A moment ago, in this debate, there was a concern that the adoption of the particular draft law in one of the possible versions would result in nothing other than the collapse of the real estate sector in Latvia. I have to tell you this: nothing like this will happen, maybe something good will happen, maybe, perhaps a Latvian multi-child family will finally be able to get to real estate, for example, in Jurmala. ( Milestones.) Immediately began a pleasant naughty side of the huddle. Maybe the builders who have focused on the limited labour resources on the construction of extremely expensive, exclusive property, which does not bring any benefit to the economy as such, including, for example, for regions, or somewhere in Riga, because none of the middle class representatives can simply afford to buy... Maybe something will change. Perhaps in a situation where there is no one working in the construction sector, at last the builders will build housing for the middle class - and perhaps with more than two rooms and perhaps with a square of less than 200 square meters - for such an average Latvian family. I call everyone! - to support these draft laws, which now prefers better, so that we can ensure that the residential areas of the average, large children's families in Latvia, young specialists, and perhaps also start to focus on housing in the regions. Many parties write in their programmes - housing needs to be built in regions, but there is no place to live. I am sorry that while Russian oligarchs can be sold real estate, I do not see such a special business argument simply not to live at its expense. I call for a focus on housing in the regions - not only in words and writing in their programmes, but also in their works. There will be a request. I invite you to support which version you like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U601	Name to Member Ivan Klementyev for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U602	What Mr Feldman said about free space... will then be released many areas. Please remind me, maybe I don't know very well how much area is provided for per capita according to our Latvian law. It seems to me that 36 square meters are provided, which is very low. In Europe, I think it's about 52 square meters. So that's the area we have... There is already a great deal of space available at the moment. 30 percent of historical homes (walk in the evening) are empty, and in districts are also empty. If you drive in the countryside, in small towns, you see how many inhabitants do not live in their apartments. It's really that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U603	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U604	On behalf of the Commission, I can say that my task was to call for this draft law to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U605	So we will vote in favour of the draft law tabled by Members. Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Immigration" (No. 1592/Lp13) at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 29, against - 43, refraining from - 1. Draft law has been rejected. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U606	So that's the next one. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) ... The next draft law - Amendments to the Immigration Law (No. 1600/Lp13). On behalf of the Commission, I call for the rejection.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U607	So this is the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers. Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Immigration" (No. 1600/Lp13)! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, 73, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft law has been rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U608	The next draft law is the alternative draft law "Amendments to the Law on Immigration" drafted by the Commission (No. 1677/Lp13). This draft law unites norms from both previous draft laws, and its essence is to review the conditions of residence of Russian and Belarusian citizens in Latvia by requiring to submit a certificate of state language knowledge to the recipients of permanent residence permits. The draft law also provides for the establishment of a competent authority to verify the origin of the transaction money of the holders of residence permits, as well as a number of other rules. I call on you to decide on the urgency of this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U609	Please call me! Vote on the alternative draft law on amendments to the Immigration Law (No. 1617/Lp13) declared urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U610	I call for support to be given to the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U611	Please call me! Vote on the alternative draft law on amendments to the Immigration Law (No. 1617/Lp13) first reading support! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -63, against -13, refrains - not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U612	Deadline for the proposals - at 14.00 on 19 September this year, and consideration - at the sitting of the Saeima on 22 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U613	So the deadline for proposals - 19 September by 14.00 this year, and consideration - at the sitting of the Saeima on 22 September this year. Dear colleagues, The Bureau has a proposal to continue without interruption. ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Thank you. Members are in favour. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law “On the Bank of Latvia”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U614	The aim of this draft law is to enable the Bank of Latvia to involve the National Armed Forces in ensuring physical security of real estate and cash transportation as early as 1 November 2022. This possibility is provided for in the new law “On the Bank of Latvia”, which will enter into force on 1 January 2023. However, in view of the geopolitical situation, in order to start this cooperation more quickly, already with 1 November, amendments to the current law “On the Bank of Latvia” are necessary. The Commission calls for urgent action to be taken on this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U615	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On the Bank of Latvia” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 69, against and refrains. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U616	The Commission supported the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U617	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On the Bank of Latvia” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 70, it's against and abstains. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for consideration of the proposals and the time limit for consideration at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U618	The deadline for tabling proposals shall be one day - 16 September, and consideration at the sitting of the Saeima - 22 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U619	Thank you. Deadline for the proposals - 16 September this year, consideration at the Saeima sitting - 22 September this year. Draft law “Amendment to the law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on the Simplification of Travels between the Populations of the Border Territories of the Republic of Latvia and the Republic of Belarus””, first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U620	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The Foreign Affairs Commission dealt with the procedure... on the evaluation of all bilateral agreements between the Republic of Latvia and the Republic of Belarus, taking into account the involvement of Belarus in Russia's military aggression against Ukraine. Belarus supports Russia both as an area of attack against Ukraine and maintains Russia, an aggressor state, a military force. We have therefore prepared both this draft law and the next two on the suspension of these contracts. All the mutual obligations mentioned in these treaties, as well as international obligations, have been fulfilled by Latvia in good faith and remain committed to act in accordance with the requirements of international law. On 24 February 2022, the President of the Russian Federation announced a “military operation” in Ukraine and the Russian armed forces launched a comprehensive military attack against Ukraine, including from Belarus. The invasion of Ukraine's territory constitutes a gross violation of Ukrainian sovereignty and territorial integrity, which is in contradiction with Russia's and Belarus's obligations under Article 2 of the UN Charter, which reflects the imperial general rules of international law. Belarus violates international obligations concerning the prohibition of aggression, which - in accordance with paragraph 3(f) of United Nations General Assembly Resolution 3314 of 14 December 1974 - includes a prohibition on allowing another country to use its territory for aggression against a third country, as well as a general obligation on States to prevent the deliberate use of their territory for acts that infringe the rights of third countries. Belarus violates these obligations by deliberately allowing Russia's military aggression against Ukraine from its territory - allowing Russia to shoot ballistic missiles from its territory, allowing the transportation of Russian military personnel and heavy weapons, tanks and military carriers, allowing Russian military aircraft to fly across the Belarusian airspace to Ukraine, providing filling points and storing Russian arms and military equipment in Belarus. The international community has repeatedly condemned Belarus's involvement in the Russian war against Ukraine. In view of the violations of the general mandatory rules of international law committed by Belarus, we have already said in the Foreign Affairs Commission that we consider it necessary to take measures recognised under international law to put an end to these violations and to compensate in full for the infringements already committed. In the light of the assessment by the Foreign Affairs Commission of 8 June and 15 June 2022 of the violations of international law committed by Belarus, the Foreign Affairs Commission decided to suspend the conclusion of bilateral agreements until Belarus terminates the violations of international law concerning Ukraine and fully compensates Ukraine for the violations of international law already committed. Colleagues, on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, please acknowledge this draft law as urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U621	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on the Simplification of Travels between the Populations of the Border Territories of the Republic of Latvia and the Republic of Belarus”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 59, against and refrains. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U622	On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U623	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on the Simplification of Travels between the Populations of the Border Territories of the Republic of Latvia and the Republic of Belarus”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for consideration of the proposals and the time limit for consideration at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U624	The Foreign Affairs Commission asks the Saeima to examine this draft law now at second, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U625	Do Members have objections to the examination of the draft law at the sitting of the Saeima without re-examination by the committee responsible? ( Interfaces: “No! ”) ) There are no objections. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on the Simplification of Travels between the Populations of the Border Territories of the Republic of Latvia and the Republic of Belarus”” in the second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendment to the law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on Air Transport”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U626	Colleagues! As I said, this draft law is related to the previous draft law that we have just examined; with the same motivation and reasoning contained in this draft law... In particular, a bilateral agreement. In particular, on 7 September 1995, the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on Air Transport was signed in Minsk. This Treaty and its Annex were adopted and approved by the Saeima by law on 25 April 1996 and entered into force on 31 May 1996. This amendment of the law is necessary to ensure suspension of the contract and its annex in accordance with the requirements of Section 14, Paragraph Two of the Law “On International Treaties of the Republic of Latvia”. In particular, given that the contract and its annex have been approved by the Saeima by law, only the Saeima is entitled by law to suspend the operation of that contract and its annex. On behalf of the Foreign Affairs Commission, I ask the Saeima to declare this draft law urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U627	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on Air Transport”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U628	On behalf of the Foreign Affairs Commission, I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U629	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the law “On the Agreement on Air Transport between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for consideration of the proposals and the time limit for consideration at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U630	On behalf of the Foreign Affairs Commission, I ask the Saeima to support the draft law at second, final, reading in this sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U631	Are Members opposed to the examination of the draft law without re-examination by the committee responsible? There is no objection. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on Air Transport” at second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendment to the law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on Mutual Assistance in Customs Matters””, first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U632	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, As I said, like the previous two draft laws... With the same reasoning, the Foreign Affairs Commission, on the same basis, urges the Saeima to suspend the operation of this treaty. As the draft law was incorporated, the law would enter into force on 10 October 2022. On behalf of the Foreign Affairs Commission, I ask you to recognise the draft law as urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U633	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on Mutual Assistance in Customs Matters”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 61, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U634	On behalf of the Foreign Affairs Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U635	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on Mutual Assistance in Customs Matters” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for consideration of the proposals and the time limit for consideration at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U636	On behalf of the Foreign Affairs Commission, I ask the Saeima to support the draft law at the second, final reading of this Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U637	Do Members have objections to the examination of the draft law at the sitting of the Saeima without re-examination by the committee responsible? There is no objection. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on Mutual Assistance in Customs Matters”” at second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - examination of a request from Members. Opinion of the Appeals Board Member Viktors Valaiņa, Jānis Dūklavs, Ulda Augulis, Jānis Vucanas, Gundars Dauges, Romana Money, Janina Jalinska, Armanda Krauze, Ramonas Petravičs, Ralfas Nemiro's request to Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš "On the intention of the Cabinet of Ministers to urgently increase deforestation intensity, threatening the conservation of biodiversity and progress towards sustainable, balanced forest management". On behalf of the Commission, Ivars Puga, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U638	Colleagues! The inquiry panel examined the request made by Members Viktors Valaiņa, Jānis Dūklavs, Ulda Augulis, Jānis Vucanas, Gundars Dauges, Romana Naudiņa, Janina Jalinska, Armanda Krauze, Ramonas Petravičs, Ralfas Nemiras to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “On the intention of the Cabinet of Ministers to urgently increase the intensity of deforestation, threatening the conservation of biodiversity and the progress towards sustainable, balanced forest management” (document No. 6186) and, by voting in favour, seven against, one abstention and one Member, admitted that Members' request should be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U639	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U640	Dear colleagues, I understand - evening, but yet this request... The purpose of the request was to show that Krišjānis Kariņš, in essence, deceived all environmental organisations, who believed that the head of the government would not, however, direct this issue of tree felling volumes further without the harmonisation of environmental organisations. What we have heard in the Commission is that the new understanding of what is a harmonised issue is that reports are simply heard and we can move forward calmly. In my view, this does not mean that the issue is harmonised. And I think a number of colleagues will agree. But, colleagues, in terms of the forest sector... what we wanted to understand when we submitted this request: will this decision not ensure that our wood will simply be exported more than it has been before, if we increase the volume of cuts; that it will simply be exported, taken away? Unfortunately, during the commission meeting we are not convinced that the country has any strategic plans to keep... and how to ensure that logging does, however, serve the needs of local producers so that this production can have a higher added value. More! What concerns us at the moment is that in the forest sector... All in all, the forest... companies, public administrations are now appointing people who have little to do with the forest sector, and this is unfortunately a very, very dangerous trend. If it's the main forest... the manager of the company is appointed by the banker, it raises the question - with what aim is it doing? This is not acceptable to us. In essence, Mr Kariņš did not reply to the Commission's request why the question was moved further without a hearing in the sector. I therefore call for this request to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U641	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added on behalf of the Commission? No, no. Please call me! We will vote for Member Viktors Valaiņa, Jānis Dūklavs, Ulda Augulis, Jānis Vucanas, Gundars Dauges, Romana Money, Janina Jalinska, Armanda Krauze, Ramonas Petravičs, Ralfas Nemiras' request to Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš "On the intention of the Cabinet of Ministers to urgently increase deforestation intensity, threatening biodiversity conservation and progress towards sustainable, balanced forest management"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The request is rejected. Changes tabled to the agenda of the Bureau meeting Members Jūlija Stepanenko, Lubova Švecova, Aldis Gobzems, Maris Možvillo, Karina Sprūde and Ainārs Vilciņš are asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to Covid-19 infection management law”. ‘ Jūlija Stepanenko, Member, has applied to speak about”
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U642	Dear colleagues, We have already called on you to finally abolish these norms on fuel. In general, it would be good to repeal the entire law, but if you still want to stick to it, if there are any articles that are necessary for the functioning of the institutions, then... there are articles that are openly detrimental to human life - and these are articles on regulating the relationship between employers and employees, which include the possibility of requiring a community certificate, and are being used again. People write again, come and tell about relevant orders in their workplaces; once again we hear about the need for community certificates for students. It is also necessary to remove the extraordinary government powers that have been granted since June 2020. There is still an obligation on the basis of these government powers to carry masks, to observe the distance and everything else, and people are still being punished for not wearing masks and for not presenting a document justifying that they do not have to wear these masks. These stories continue from December. Is it really not enough once?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We call on these articles - at least these articles! - remove from the law, cancel. It's finally time. I think you too need to understand this if you do not understand it. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U643	Do Members object to the inclusion of a draft law on the agenda of the Saeima sitting? Please call me! We will vote for inclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on communicable Management” on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 27, against - 42, refraining from - 1. Draft law shall not be included on the agenda of the sitting. We have reviewed the entire agenda of the sitting. I must inform you of the sitting scheduled for today to answer Members' questions. Member Cilevičs, Lochmeles, Kucina, Krišana and Tutinas asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs about the issue of visas for the returnees. The written reply received shall be granted to the applicants. Member Cilevičs, Lochmeles, Kucina, Krišana and Tutinas question to the Minister for the Interior about the situation in the field of repatriation. The written reply received shall be granted to the applicants. The urgent question that members of Rubiks, Clementyevs, Kucins, Tretyaka and Tutins submitted to the Prime Minister is “On your avoidance to provide answers to questions about “booking” of gas needed by Latvian households”. The question has been referred to the Minister for Economic Affairs, the written responses received do not satisfy the applicants, but the oral Members do not want to ask questions. Member of the Minister for the Interior of Petravičas, Pucena, Krapāne, Ģirgens and Možvillo “On the use of resources (material and labour) to ensure the security of Riga Praida event in 2022”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister shall inform him that he is unable to appear and give an oral answer. On the question of Member Stepanenko, Gobzem, Srūde, Švekova and Vilciņš to the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development “On Disconnection of villages of Skulte and Cleans from Power Supply”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister shall inform him that he is unable to appear and give an oral answer. Members' questions have been received. Members Rubiks, Agešins, Tutins, Orlovs and Krišāns submitted the question “On the Latvian “Emergency Action Plan” that we put to the Minister of Economics. Members Rubiks, Klementjevs, Niconovs, Ribakovs and Kabanovs submitted the question “On Compliance of the Implementation Procedure of the LNG terminal offered by the Government with the Public Interest of Latvia”, which we hand over to the Minister of Economics. Members Petraviča, Možvillo, Ģirgens, Nemiro and Vilcins submitted a question “On the number and use of Covid-19 vaccines reserved, purchased and delivered”, which we hand over to the Minister of Health. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name For Inese Voika to read the registration results.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U644	Colleagues! Not registered: Mārtiņš Bondars, Boriss Cilevičs, Anda Čakša, Sergejs Dolgopolovs, Ilmārs Dūritis, Marija Golubeva, Janīna Jalinska, Ieva Krapāne, Armands Krauze (Intermediation: Armands Krauze is!) )... Armands is, Edgars Kucins, Ralfs Nemiro, Evija Papule, Ēriks Pucens, Ivans Ribakovs, Karina Sprūde, Mārtiņš Šteins, Jānis Tutins, Jānis Urbanovičs, Jānis Vitenbergs, Gatis Zamurs and Evita Zālīte-Gross.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2409-U645	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
