ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2364-U1	Dear Members, Honourable Members! The agenda of the second remote emergency session of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 24 February 2022 is open. On the agenda: reports by the Bureau on own-initiative proposals submitted. Dear colleagues, So on the agenda is the question of the own-initiative proposal submitted by the Foreign Affairs Commission. Owned proposal: Draft Decision on the Communication on the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine. If a Member objects to the examination of this own-initiative proposal at this sitting, please apply. In the absence of any objections by Members, we will therefore begin to consider the draft parliamentary decision on the Communication on the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine submitted. Member Rihards Kols on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2364-U2	Madam President, I have a very respectful sitting. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The Foreign Affairs Commission has prepared a draft decision to the Saeima on the Communication on the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine. Colleagues! It is 24 February 2022 and today is probably the biggest military attack on a sovereign state since the end of the Second World War. There's a war going on. Russia has attacked Ukraine and Belarus is taking part in this attack. The Foreign Commission has just supported the draft decision of the Saeima on Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity, in which it strongly condemns the military aggression of the Russian Federation in Ukraine and requests the Russian Federation and Belarus to immediately stop further military aggression, to withdraw the armed forces from Ukraine's territory and deescalate the situation, to engage in the search for a diplomatic solution, as well as to end further aggression and provocations against Ukraine and to respect the obligations set out in international treaties. In the statement, we believe that Russia's and Belarus's participation in international organisations that defend peace, security, human rights and the rule-based international order is incompatible with Russia's and Belarus's unprovoked and unwarranted aggression against Ukraine. We therefore urge the European Union to take immediate action by imposing maximum sanctions against the Russian Federation, Belarus and their officials responsible for this attack on Ukrainian statehood; and to encourage the Council of Europe to exclude Russia from it. That's serious. In his address this morning at 5.45 a.m., Russian President Vladimir Putin threatened any country that would intervene with the consequences that they had never seen. Let's not pretend we don't understand – Putin has threatened the world with nuclear war. Aggression War is a war crime. It is a crime against humanity. The illegality of the aggression is one of the cornerstones of international law, just as the elimination of it is one of the fundamental tasks of the United Nations. Those who knew or needed to be aware of a crime against humanity and who did not do what they could to prevent it are co-accountful. Russia is responsible for the death and destruction that this war is currently sowing and carrying. And Russia will answer for that. Sanctions. Russia must be isolated from the civilised world: to disable SWIFT, Visa, Mastercard, to deny the operational reserves of the Russian Central Bank, to freeze assets for the entire elite; to prohibit entry into the European Union and NATO, except for certain persons, as well as to block Russian propaganda channels. In the centuries-long struggle between autocracy and democracy, between dictatorship and freedom, Ukraine is today a front line. And that's also our front line. Colleagues! I call on you to support the draft decision on ‘Communication on the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine’. There is nothing here to debate. Ukraine is being attacked by unprovoked, pointless and savagely brutal attacks. It is also an attack on Europe as a whole, on global peace and security. In the centuries of struggle, as I said, Ukraine is on the frontline. I think we are with the Ukrainian people. Favorite Ukraine! Let's drink praise! Glory to Ukraine! Glory to the heroes! I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2364-U3	Members have applied for a debate. The Parliament's draft decision on the Communication on the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine has been launched. As the first word for Member Aldim Gobzem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2364-U4	I would like to ask for a combination of time. Oh, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't... It's okay. Dear people! This morning, together with all of Europe, we have woke up in another world. Russia, our neighbour, has launched a military invasion in Ukraine. The war has begun in the centre of Europe. In this war, it is clear who is the aggressor and who is the victim. The possibility of war in the form of a permit has been talked about for several months now. Most of us felt that this was impossible in the 21st century. We called for a rational... In our view, the rational reasons why, in the 21st century, when the world lives better than ever before in the history of civilization, war is impossible. We said that human and economic losses are too great to justify war. We considered that any geopolitical or economic goals could be achieved without victims and destruction. We must admit that we have made mistakes. Charges are exploding near the borders of our country and people are dying. It's February 2022, and it's happening in Europe. Dear people! In the coming days, we will be forced to reassess many things and events in our personal life and the life of our country. With other eyes, we will look at what is good or not what has happened to us. We will look at our family, children, our country, our history, our neighbours and our fellow people with other eyes. We will really appreciate what is important and what is temporary and only an illusion. I call on all of you this morning to stop your daily life and, as far as possible, to stand by yourself and to think about what really matters in this life. Definitely, every one of us has his own. But I am sure that all of us are united about our country, about Latvia. Without it we are nothing, just an anonymous record in the history book. Only when everyone has agreed with us where we are on Latvia can we start thinking about what to do next. First. I call on Latvian politicians to start thinking about state of emergency, not everyday categories of questions. I call for the agenda of the Saeima and the organisation of the Cabinet of Ministers to be reviewed. We need to establish a governance model for the time being that allows the necessary decisions to be taken quickly and without delay. It must be understood that it is the Saeima and the Cabinet of Ministers that is and will be an example for our citizens. Our responsibility to the country today is greater than ever in the history of Latvia's new times. Secondly. We must admit that our life and lifestyle will change in the near future – I think, economically and psychologically. When the first shock has passed, a long and painful period of uncertainty will come. The President of Latvia and the Head of Government will have the task of ensuring that we are ready to survive this period above all economically. This will cover public expenditure, banking, energy supply and other critical supplies. It is the economy that is the first to suffer from the war that is still taking place in another country. Finally and most importantly. I call on Latvia's citizens, citizens and non-citizens not to look for the perpetrators inside the country, not to look for the greatest and smallest patriots. I invite you to remember that our enemy wants us to be fragmented and show each other their fingers. We are divided, the enemy has already won. We win if we are united. Unified for your country and your people. Together at each other's side. Irrespective of the fact that we may have a different view of certain domestic policy issues. I stress that this is the time not to look for the perpetrators and to be united. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2364-U5	The name to Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2364-U6	Dear President, The events are undoubtedly extremely worrying. For many people of Latvia, this makes it possible to remember – especially for the elderly – the aggression of Russia, the Soviet Union, to be more precise. However, the habits have not changed: Russia's invasion of Georgia, Russia's invasion of Crimea. And already at that time, the international community pointed out violations of human rights; Russia was threatened with sanctions. Its sanctions were, of course, introduced, but it has given nothing to radically altering Russia's regime, not Russia's, but Russia's regime... its follow-up. Peace situation in a country where... In the sovereign country of Ukraine have been different... Of course, each country has its own problems, which then do not exist, but come as a world policeman forever and introduce its own adjustments regardless of what the country is dealing with or failing – it has unfortunately been an integral part of Russia's policy. Provocatives, disinformation. And here we have come to this day, as the Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Commission said, with what is totally unacceptable to both the international community and humanity as a whole. The hostilities are currently very close to us. In Western Europe, we see statements by various world leaders – calls for more urgent action, calls for less urgent action. But, of course, the issue of this communication on our agenda today is absolutely in place and must be adopted immediately. In this case, I would not like to go into internal political small-scale, small-scale disputes, perhaps sometime between us, colleagues, but at the moment we would expect statements from our foreign minister, defence minister and other ministers on how our society can feel. Public concern may be high enough, but our senior public officials must make a statement, and this must be done immediately. With only a little bit of the diplomacy Russia is taking. I do not believe that it is diplomacy at all. It is a continuous notification on the basis of altered facts. This has happened continuously, I do not know how much more than Russia has violated the agreement, and Western society has hoped that these agreements will no longer be violated. They have been violated by each other all the time. That is why we, being very close to Ukraine, must submit a statement as soon as possible, with a very good understanding of the situation that the Russian regime has, perhaps even the mental attitude of the Russian regime, because we understand very well what future action might be. Russia has ignored absolutely everything. In peace, in the human rights organisations in which it takes part, it has promoted completely distorted facts and has consistently sought to mislead the public, including its own. Where we still talk about the audience of neighbouring countries! In my opinion, it is quite clear that any flow of information, flow of propaganda information coming from this country must be stopped, so that our citizens' minds could not be misled with information, distort information, perhaps even for distorted stories, provocative stories, because unfortunately, as the time of Russia's invasion in Ukraine, in Crimea, shows, the interpretation here could have been very close to the reality rather than to what was presented to us here in the country. So this statement comes in an absolute time. It is, of course, worth debating this in the sense that we, as all the Members of the Saeima, are very well aware and have heard from our ancestors what the consequences of war are, as a war occurs, when human rights are not taken into account at any time. Therefore, my fellow Members, I am calling for this day to be devoted to this extraordinary, very worrying and unfortunately very close event in the territory of our country, which we very much wanted not to wait for. Diplomatic attempts took place as far as possible, but as we can see, they failed. Of course, not because of our diplomats, but because of one neighbouring regime. I condemn it in full. The history that we have had in the context of the Soviet Union... we remember it very well, and we should not forget it at this time in particular. The condemnation is absolutely in place. Thank you very much to the Foreign Affairs Commission for this report, for taking swift action. Our common view, I hope, is understandable and joint to all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2364-U7	The next floor to the Member in the debate, Krista Baumane.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2364-U8	Dear President, Dear colleagues and colleagues! This morning, four o'clock in the morning, I was awakened by a text message from my fellow Member of the Ukrainian Parliament that the war started. As soon as she sent me a message about a child who died in the region of Harkov, in the town of Chaugin, in the residential area, from Russia's artillery shooting. We were afraid that this would happen, and we warned the world in international fora, in meetings of officials, in the media and in social networks, but it was even more a surprise for people, according to the reaction of several of our Western colleagues. ‘ We did not believe that this would happen,” they admitted. Now those pink glasses have finally fallen. All the illusions about the power of restraint and the hope of diplomacy have disappeared, and the picture is quite clear. Putin is an aggressive dictator who extorts after the Second World War the long and carefully built international order based on law and, most likely, he wants to restore the Soviet Union, whose collapse was, in his opinion, a major disaster of the century. The world must not allow this to happen. We must not allow this to happen. The Saeima's statement sets out in great terms what should be done both in relation to Russia and in helping Ukraine. Next, it is the task of Members, Government and diplomats – to clarify both sanctions and assistance (and we are already working on it) (A sound defect.) ... propagandaists and some oligarchs, but also their family members and associated enablers... To give them the opportunity to live in the luxurious property of Western Europe, which buys money for it, to disconnect Russia from SWIFT, decisively activate rather than gently apply the rules of international organisations that are binding on Russia. We and our Baltic colleagues have already started to direct the Russian delegation's exclusion procedure from the Council of Europe and are working with our colleagues from other Member States to support this initiative. Latvia has already started to help Ukraine with more capacity, both by sending weapons and other military assistance, offering medical assistance, rehabilitation services and preparing to receive refugees. Finally. We need to do even more to strengthen the security of our country, including by increasing the defence budget to two and a half per cent of GDP, as called for by the Minister of Defence. Dear colleagues, I call for support for this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2364-U9	Name to Member Aldim Adamovich.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2364-U10	Good morning, honourable Head of the sitting! Good morning, colleagues! Indeed, the incredible has happened, and it is terrible that the war has begun. The leadership of the Russian Federation has ordered the invasion of Ukraine. There's a lot of news coming up right now... and at times also Russian media news about many things that are not happening at the moment. As Head of the parliamentary group of MEPs, I have contacts with the Rada Members as well as with the management of several municipalities. I have to say, this information is really different. The fact that the Russian troops are currently trying to destroy several airports, aerodromes, as well as military objects – it is true, but it also receives a strong counter-warning, which is reported by the Ukrainian side. Indeed, Ukraine will by no means give up, and our moral and emotional support has so far been. Of course we will continue to do so, but we will also call tomorrow... I would like to inform my colleagues that tomorrow, at 13.00, a meeting of the Group of Members' Group will be convened to facilitate cooperation with the Ukrainian Parliaments. Let us also try to attract a couple of Rada Members and perhaps our local government leaders to actually discuss practical things that could perhaps be dealt with in the near future with support for refugees, because yesterday there was also information that Russia could start trying to blackmail the children of the government, the family of the parliament. Therefore, the following steps must also be taken. Of course, I call – and we all call! – to introduce the most severe sanctions from the Member States of the European Union and NATO, also looking at various international cultural and sporting events, to completely ignore Russia in this area to a peaceful solution to the situation. I would also, of course, like to thank all my colleagues and many local government leaders who took part last week in action to demolish the Ukrainian flag at the Freedom Monument, to raise the Ukrainian flag in several local governments. And, of course, so far we have supported Ukrainian children, Ukrainian soldiers with rehabilitation. We will continue to do this, and clearly our full support for the Ukrainian people. So tomorrow we meet at 13.00. Hopefully, representatives of the Ministry of the Interior will also participate to discuss some practical matters. I call for my unanimous support for the draft decision on the Communication on the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2364-U11	The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2364-U12	Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting! Dear colleagues, Thank you to the Foreign Affairs Commission for the report that has been prepared, I also join the text of this report and support Ukraine. I would like to draw attention to a couple of practical things that we can each do, what every citizen of Latvia can do. I'll start with the first: at 12.00, in 10 minutes, the Cabinet of Ministers' meeting begins on events in Ukraine. I call on the Cabinet to open a wallet at this point and to provide financial support to Ukraine, as well as to send arms, civilian assistance and necessary items to Ukraine. Ukraine resists, Ukraine will fight, Ukraine has opportunities to win. We now have to do everything to give them real support, both with words and with practical actions. What can every citizen of Latvia do at this moment? First. A picket is taking place at the Russian Embassy. I call on every citizen of Latvia to join this picket, to be there continuously and to show a clear attitude of the people of Latvia about these events. Secondly. I invite the people of Latvia and members of the Saeima to address the NEPLP... and, welcoming the action of the NEPLP, blocking Russian propaganda channels already today, I call for them to be replaced by Ukrainian television channels so that Latvian citizens, especially the Russian-speaking people of Latvia, see a reflection of events in Ukraine. Thirdly. I call on every citizen of Latvia to understand that this will be a process that will result in different things. Among other things, I call on everyone to be prepared to host Ukrainian women and children in their homes, who are currently unable to defend their country, and to provide any kind of help we can do. Fourth. I call for the boycotting of Russian products, assets and other things relating to the Russian Federation that can support and finance this war in any way. Five. Colleagues, I am calling for you to join Earthguard. I'm inviting you to visit... in summer there will be an opportunity to apply for reserve training in the Latvian army. Although there is no direct threat to Latvia at the moment, I call for readiness. I call on us to take responsibility, to support our country in every way and to be united, but also to support Ukraine in practical activities. Thank you. Favorite Ukraine!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2364-U13	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2364-U14	Russia has started a war in Europe with its own country, Belarus. At this point in time, the Kremlin's occupations are committing crimes against humanity. Unfortunately, the influence of the Kremlin is deeply rooted both in Latvia and in Europe. Thousands of Russian citizens live among us who voted for the bloody dictator in Putin's last presidential elections. The impact extends to the media, sport, education and the economy. In the near future, the Saeima will decide how to break Russia's influence in Latvia. But at the moment, we do not need to hesitate and we need to show clear support for Ukraine. I call for active action in the Cabinet of Ministers. I call on you to speed up and vote on the draft decision already drawn up by the Foreign Affairs Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2364-U15	The name of Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2364-U16	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Hello, colleagues! My morning as many of us started with a message from friends and colleagues in Ukraine. One of the news messages was from Valentine, who among his video friends told about artillery shots in Harkov, the second largest city of Ukraine, on the Russian border. Valentin was calm, but still shocked. He has been active on the front line since 2014 and has seen hostilities in his life, but the Russian attack even surprised the city. Therefore, I want support for the Ukrainians to be expressed widely in both the Saeima's statement... and not only in the vote, but also in the words that many of us are saying today. The world and us, including Latvia, have provided support to Ukraine over the last eight years since the annexation of Crimea, providing support in various ways according to the situation. We do not hesitate, nor do we hesitate, to support Ukraine morally, practically and militaryly. ‘ Stinger’s missiles from Latvia have already arrived in Ukraine. Today, our Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs, together with other Foreign Ministers, is based in Ukraine, and it seems to me that it is important and symbolic that these days they are on the ground – in Kiev. Today, the presidency of the Baltic Assembly will also meet on this issue, where we will discuss our support to Ukraine together – the Baltic parliamentarians. We are working and we will work with the European Union and NATO partners to ensure further support. Latvia's responsibility and possibilities to influence decisions on economic support to Ukraine... and will need more than ever, and the European Union can and will ensure that it is firm. On the other hand, Russia must also be subject to the most severe sanctions. It is important to stress that our aim is peace and that Russia has the opportunity to sign on to it at any time. Only Russia and – perhaps we should say things in the right words – its President Putin himself has begun this war, and Russia has the opportunity to end it today. It is hard to see war in Europe in the 21st century, but that is our reality, and we have to deal with it. Ukraine will be able to do so, and we will be with them – the Saeima, the government, but every citizen of Latvia. A picket is already taking place at the Russian Embassy, and this must continue because the dictators like it and have a good silence. We will be willing to welcome Ukrainians, support Ukrainian needs, and here every citizen of Latvia can put his or her hand. Our aim is peace and territorial integrity of Ukraine and freedom of the Ukrainian people and state. Freedom and security of Ukraine is freedom and security of Latvia, freedom and security of Europe and the world. And here, the unity of Latvia is important. Today I hope for full support from the Saeima, and that would then be the first time in this, 13th Saeima, when we will speak with one voice of support to Ukraine. Favorite Ukraine! I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2364-U17	Name to Member Raimond Bergman.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2364-U18	Dear colleagues,
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2364-U19	Mr. Bergman, we don't see you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2364-U20	You see now?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2364-U21	No, Mr. Bergman, we hear you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2364-U22	Do you hear that?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2364-U23	Yeah, but it's not...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2364-U24	You hear me? You see me?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2364-U25	One moment, one minute. Here, on the host of the sitting, you are not visible.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2364-U26	But how can I... Can I switch to another computer? Can you turn on, please, John Dūklav's computer? Where can I... Is that so? ( Independence: “You see! Everything, you see!” ) See? You hear that? ( Intercretion: “Now hear! ” ) Highly respected colleagues! People of Latvia! The state of Latvia must be united today as never. The Union of Greens and Farmers calls on every citizen of the country to realise that the united attitude of the people, condemning Russia's political, military aggression against Ukraine's statehood, is now crucial. For us – every citizen of Latvia – it is important: peace, ability to assess the consequences of Russian aggressor's attacks on Ukraine's statehood, territorial integrity and independence. We invite you to be aware that Latvia's State Security (Sound Break.) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2364-U27	Colleagues, technical break in the sitting – five minutes. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2364-U28	Colleagues, the error in the e-Saami has been eliminated. Mr Bergmanis, please apply again to the system so that we can give you the floor with a time report. Name to Member Raimond Bergman.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2364-U29	Thank you. Colleagues, once again... I do not want to be joking at this point, but we know how these statements were made and modelled, and all these statements have been recorded in the Russian Federation, but I will have the power to repeat what I said. So, again. Dear colleagues, people of Latvia! Residents of Latvian people, people who live here in Latvia! The state of Latvia must be as united today as ever. The Union of Greens/Farmers calls on every citizen of the country to realise that the united attitude of the people, condemning Russia's political and military aggression against Ukrainian statehood, is now crucial. It is important for us to have the peace of every citizen of Latvia, to have a real and harsh assessment of the consequences of Russian aggressor's attacks on Ukraine's statehood, territorial integrity and independence. We invite you to be aware that the security of Latvia is not only a reliance on the allies of NATO and the National Armed Forces of the Republic of Latvia, but also in the hands of every citizen of the country – regardless of nationality and religion. We are leaving the things that divide us and knowing that the cohesion of the people today is a guarantee of security for our country tomorrow – not only for us, but also for our children and future generations. At the moment, the Ukrainian people have such confidence in the heart – we are on our land and we will not give up! Together with Ukraine for victory!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2364-U30	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2364-U31	Dear colleagues, I must be one of the very few Members (it seems that we are only two) who have felt on their skin what war means to spend in the cellar of day and night, thinking that this cellar may at any time become a family tomb. It remains in memory for life. And therefore the resolution of any conflict through war is undoubtedly condemned. And so I support this statement, even though, to be honest, to reduce emotions... thinking more about future action, action, the next steps, some things I would not have put here, because here's the main idea in this statement is that war in the world must not be allowed. The globe is very small. We are a limited number of people living on this planet and cannot allow wars to happen... be used as a way of resolving issues. In general. Any place, from the side of any country. And today, I would very much like to remember, even though, when it comes to our reaction, to support the victim, and it is the Ukrainian people, that we would also remember that the Russian people are also suffering in this case, because it is regarded as a nation of an aggressor country in the world. It's a problem, it's a tragedy for people, it's a tragedy for nations. And I think that if we want to think seriously about the security of our country, the most important thing in this case is not the budget for defence, not the number of guns, but how much we are united, how much we are able to reject any attempts to split us, divide us to rule, whether from inside or outside. I would like to say once again: I support this call as an invitation to cease all hostilities in the world, as an invitation to end this particular bloody war, no matter what motive it may be. I also call on my colleagues to support this call because it is our attitude to a problem called "peace and war". Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2364-U32	The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2364-U33	Colleagues! This statement is a clear statement by all of our fellow Members and, I hope, by a very large part of society, to the world. There is something that may have forgotten a little, not in the report itself, but in this sitting of the Saeima. Currently, people are following the media with excitement, are following the news from Ukraine and, with great concern, are following what the government is doing and how it behaves. I had hoped that our President of Latvia would also actively protect the interests of the people of the country and will be at his post as the chief executive. Unfortunately, our President of Latvia is now in Germany. I hoped that the Prime Minister would speak here because the people, I hope, follow this sitting of the Saeima and want to receive confirmation that not only the Saeima Members, the Parliamentary Presidium, the Commission, but also the highest official of the State – the President of the State – and the highest person of the State executive, who is the Prime Minister, will be united with the Saeima, will speak to the people, will talk about problems both internally, how we can bring society together more quickly and outwardly, how we can react as a state, agree in a common position and tell the world that we, although we are a small country, are proud of the state and the ability to give a helping hand to those who are having difficulty, not forgeting that we must also be very united internally and must be able to join together and help those who are difficult at this difficult time. I hope and believe that all the nations currently living in Latvia are united in this position and are ready to defend their people, our common country at any time, as well as to provide assistance to those who are currently having difficulties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2364-U34	The name of Member Ramona Petraviča.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2364-U35	Colleagues, I listen to your speeches, and very good words, but it will sound harsh... But yet... When it comes to unity, which you all stress, we must be united, of course, we must be. But what has already happened in our society? The government has divided society between the privileged and the rest. There's a hate in the company. Segregation and its psychological desire for someone to be privileged is so much minded and so eager to keep it... How, then, can we become united in one day? Tell me, how will people – the 62 thousand who have been unemployed for months – be able to help and receive Ukrainian women and children? Undoubtedly, everyone and everyone should, but first of all, we must think about ending the sowing of hatred, the segregation of people, the division of privileged and others, and only then will we be able to help someone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2364-U36	The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2364-U37	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, Today we are talking about this statement prepared by the parliamentary commission on Foreign Affairs. And first of all, I would like to say thank you very much to the Foreign Affairs Commission for having produced such a document operationally. And I can say right away that I will call for strong support and I hope that we will all support the adoption of this document. But what do I mean? This is a document in which we express our common attitude and our common vision of the priority actions to be carried out. I now ask for the floor as the Head of the Latvian delegation to the Baltic Assembly and, at the same time, the President of the Baltic Assembly. During the last week, the Presidency of the Baltic Assembly has already addressed the general public, international organisations, both at the time when there were signs of the intentions of the Russian President and at the time when the recognition of the independence of the two territories was announced. Now it's... This is the third moment from which we... We very much hoped that the moment would not come, at least not to the extent that we are seeing this hostilities at the moment. And, of course, at this point too, we have to talk. The Baltic Assembly has had a long enough experience in such diplomatic negotiations, because then, in 2014, after Crimea... Then in various formats, where members of the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Assembly met with members of the Russian State Council, we still kept the illusion that there is possible parliamentary diplomacy and it is possible to talk about things and try to explain what parliamentary democracy means in the sense of European countries. Unfortunately, I must say at the moment that I personally and, I think, many of my colleagues, who have been working for a long time at the Baltic Assembly, have lost this illusion. This communication, prepared by the Foreign Affairs Commission, calls for negotiations to be opened to exclude the Russian delegation from the Council of Europe. However, delegations of Russian State Council members are active in a number of international interparliamentary organisations. One of these is the Baltic Sea Parliamentary Conference, which is scheduled for next Monday's meeting of the Standing Committee. The meeting was due to be held without knowing about these events. And Mrs Voika has already mentioned that the presidency of the Baltic Assembly is convened today at 14.00. One of the issues we will address at the presidency of the Baltic Assembly (in every case I will raise such a question) is that perhaps also in the Baltic Sea Parliamentary Conference... the other ten countries, nine countries, because Russia is there too, but so without Russia... There are 11 countries together, without Russia – ten... that we must encourage the issue of the fact that those members of the Russian State Council (and, as far as I understand it, the entire Russian State Council have given permission to use troops outside the Russian borders, given this mandate to the President)... that they do not have the right to participate in such interparliamentary fora. And I also call on the other parliamentary delegations, which operate in formats where the Russian delegation is present, to consider this question: do we really still have any illusion about the use of parliamentary diplomacy? I don't think so. But this statement by the Foreign Affairs Commission certainly calls for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2364-U38	The debate is closed. Mr. Cole, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2364-U39	On behalf of the Commission, I thank all the Members who also took part in the debate for their views and positions. Absolutely everything is to be supported, and I call here on every Member in his or her fields of competence and responsibility to move all these proposals forward as well. And really we are with the Ukrainian people in our thoughts and actions. I call on Members to show this position unanimously by voting in favour of the Saeima statement. God bless Latvia!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-24-PT13-2364-U40	Thank you. The decision must therefore be taken by vote. The draft decision ‘Declaration by the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine’: ‘The Saeima of the Republic of Latvia: strongly condemns the military aggression and large-scale invasion of Ukraine by the Russian Federation; strongly condemns the involvement of Belarus in the military attack against Ukraine; stresses that the unwarranted invasion of the Russian Federation on the territory of Ukraine constitutes a gross violation of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine, which has been expressed in violation of Russia’s commitments resulting from Article 2 of the UN Charter and from the mandatory rules of international law, as well as from Russia’s commitments made by the signing of the Budapest Memorandum and undertaking to guarantee the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine; calls on the Russian Federation and Belarus to immediately cease further military aggression, to withdraw the forces from the territory of Ukraine and to deescalate the situation, to engage in the search for a diplomatic solution, as well as to terminate further all forms of aggression and provocation against Ukraine and to comply with the obligations imposed by international treaties; reaffirms the strong support of the Republic of Latvia to Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity within its borders, as highlighted to the UN Resolution of 27 March 2014, confirming and to strengthen the legal protection of the protection of Ukraine and respect to respect to respect to the protection of national law law law and respect to the protection of the protection of trade and to respect to respect to the sole legal legal law with respect with respect with respect with respect as respect as respect as respect as respect to legal legal legal and to respect to respect as respect as respect as respect to legal legal legal and to respect to legal legal legal legal as as to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to calls on the Council of Europe to raise the issue of the withdrawal of the Russian Federation from it, including in the areas of security and defence; stresses the importance of providing military support to Ukraine through the provision of defence weapons in accordance with Article 51 of the Charter of the United Nations, which allows individual and collective self-defence; stresses the need for NATO to rapidly strengthen security and the presence of allies in the eastern flank of NATO, including through the activation of consultations on Article 4 of the North Atlantic Treaty; considers that the participation of Russia and Belarus in international organisations that defend the peace, security, human rights and rule-based international order is incompatible with the unprovoked and unwarranted aggression of these countries; calls on the international community to actively support Ukraine, calls on the United Nations and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe to consider violations of the international rights and obligations of the Russian Federation and to express a sharp condemnation; calls on the European Union to take immediate action with maximum sanctions against the Russian Federation, Belarus and their officials responsible for this attack on Ukrainian state.’ Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “Declaration of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine”! Please vote mode! No, 93, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The decision was adopted unanimously. Dear Members, honourable Members, We have therefore examined the agenda for the second sitting of the Saeima on 24 February. I would like to inform you that we will be on break for 30 minutes and return to the agenda of the first remote emergency session on 24 February at 13.00. Only the registration of participants in this meeting. It's been a success. So we return to the first remote sitting of the Saeima at 13.00.
