ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2403-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! We will begin the extraordinary session of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on August 30, 2022. On the agenda: reports by the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, “Amendment to the Law on Personal Documents”, be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes to refer the draft law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Supporting the Economic Effects of Sanctions and Anti-Dumping Measures against Ukraine” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Jānis Vitenbergs.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2403-U2	Dear President, Colleagues! The Ministry of Economics has prepared and the government has examined and continues to direct the draft law “Amendments to the law on support for the sanctions and the economic consequences of the anti-Ukrainian military aggression”. These amendments are intended to help those of our large manufacturing companies, which may have problems with this rapid rise in prices, and which may have problems with the movement of financial resources, so that they can compete internationally. There is an urgent need for action on our part here. I call for these amendments to be supported. They intend to support these undertakings for the period from 1 February to 31 December this year. Administration of this support programme will be carried out by the State Building Control Office. The aid will take the form of a grant. According to the Ministry of Economics, this will help more than 250 large companies, the backbone of our economy. In parallel, this programme is coordinated with the European Commission. It is therefore very urgent to adopt these amendments to the law in order to be able to draw up the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers and approve them. When drafting the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, it will also be known exactly what support criteria companies will need in order to qualify for this support. As it is clear that they are undertakings which are the direct beneficiaries of high electricity costs in the production process, these undertakings will have access to this aid, and they are waiting for this aid as well. The next project also foresees the same, including programmes that have already been in the past. And companies have recognised that they have been successful; they have been easy to administer. So entrepreneurs expect such support from us. I therefore call for this bill to be passed on to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2403-U3	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Extraordinary Increase in Energy Prices” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Aldis Gobzems.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2403-U4	Good morning! The things that need to be done this autumn and prepared for winter to help Latvian society – pensioners, families with children, not too wealthy people – are the following. First of all, Latvia and the management of Latvenergo should decide to leave the Nord Pool power exchange and move to fixed electricity prices. The speculation on Nord Pool, which is actually fraud, has historically been the decision of Krišjānis Kariņš. He himself is proud of it publicly – that thanks to him we will now be in the "free" market. We see where this "free" market has led, because there is in fact no free market. The first stage is therefore the withdrawal of Nord Pool. It is clear that the existing coalition of power will not do this. Nor will it do the next thing that should be done this winter. That is, this autumn and this winter, for the next six months, i.e. until spring, so that people can overcome these times of crisis for all households (I stress – for all households!) 100 kilowatt-hours (first 100 kilowatt-hours!) , plus for each child – another 50 kilowatt hours, for free. At the expense of Latvenergo. At the expense of the abnormal profits of Latvenergo, namely by returning Latvenergo's profits to people. What does that mean? This means that in the next six months all Latvian pensioners must have electricity free of charge (and Latvia can afford it, just want it), knowing the average electricity consumption of each Latvian pensioner. You'll ask me (those who don't understand): where to get the money? I repeat: Latvenergo's profits. In a crisis where children will no longer be taken to the swimming pool and will not be able to take them to hockey halls, when companies will not be able to work with electricity, and when people with disabilities have to meet with Members in candlelight rather than with electricity, Latvenergo's profits are inadequate, and it is conscious that people simply have to get money. That is the policy of Unity. If there will be Unity and Unity satellite parties, all – all who claim to create a coalition with Unity – dear people, you will continue to dress up! Therefore, listen again – Latvia can afford... Just as Ulmanis was so strong at the time and built HES, so today... Today Gobzems from the tribunal says: Latvia can afford every pensioner this winter... to grant electricity free of charge for a period of six months. For each multi-child family, Latvia can afford to allocate 100 kilowatt-hours for each child (i.e. for the family as such). And for each child – 50 kilowatt hours. You can afford it without thinking at all. And nothing will happen to Latvia. If we can send 300 million to another country, then 130-140 million of Latvenergo's profits can be returned to our people. And this is the only major task that needs to be done this autumn in terms of electricity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2403-U5	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, so the agenda of the sitting has been examined. Please call me! Please register the Members! Dear colleagues, now it is a statement. The Commission will go to work. As soon as the Saeima's Bureau receives draft laws examined by the Commission... first reading... We will convene another extraordinary sitting. So you'll get information on your mobile phones. Name Dagmarai Beitnerei-Le Gallai for reading the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2403-U6	Not registered: Valery Agešins, Uldis Augulis, Krista Baumane, Aigars Bikše, Jānis Cielēns, Anda Čakša, Gundars Dzintars, Marija Golubeva, Janīna Jalinska... Janīna Jalinska is, Artuss Kaimiņš, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Armands Krauze, Ralphs Nemiro, Eriks Pucens, Juris Pūce, Juris Rancāns, Ivans Ribakovs, Dace Rukšāne-Ščipčinska, Andris Skride, Ilga Šuplinska and Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2403-U7	Thank you. I closed the extraordinary session of 30 August this year.
