ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U1	Colleagues, we will begin the meeting of the Second Extraordinary Session of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 30 August this year. I'm inviting you to take your seats in the Chamber... Colleagues, can we get started? Thank you. So on the agenda, we're looking at the draft laws. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on Documents for Persons”, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission – Member Inga Goldberga.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U2	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government reviewed the draft law drawn up by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law on Documents for Persons”. The draft law was drafted by the Ministry of the Interior. The Cabinet asks that the draft law be declared urgent. The draft law was designed to provide for an opportunity for Latvian citizens, non-citizens and stateless persons to whom an identity document issued in Latvia has expired within the period from 1 March 2020, to use it for identification in the Republic of Latvia until 30 April 2023, of course, if the document has not become invalid for other reasons. According to information collected by the Office of Citizenship and Migration Affairs on 4 August 2022 between 1 March 2020 and 4 August 2022, the period of validity of 26,661 Latvian citizens or non-citizens aged over 15 years have expired and there is no personal identification document at their disposal. This will lead to a total of 301 134 documents being completed by 30 April 2023. As a result of such a situation, it is argued that since 2020, the prevalence of Covid-19 virus, when a national emergency situation and related restrictions were periodically imposed, was affected by unforeseen circumstances that had a significant impact on both the customer service capacity of the PMLP and the ability of individuals to arrive and produce an identity document. The solution is, by nature, similar to the one provided for in Section 8(1) of the Law on the Activities of State Institutions in Emergency Situations related to the Distribution of Covid-19. The date stipulated in the draft law – March 1, 2020 – was chosen in connection with the rapid increase in the prevalence of Covid-19 during that time and the respective restrictions, which hindered the availability of personal identification documents. The date stipulated in the draft law - April 30, 2023 – has been chosen according to the approximate periods of restrictions established in previous years and predicting possible limited possibilities of persons to appear in the administration for the preparation of personal identification documents during this period. The use of such a document in the project is limited to processes or services that the person requests, receives or implements on-site. The document will not be used to authenticate the identity in an electronic environment. It will not make it possible to receive electronic services or to sign documents because, upon expiry of the validity period laid down in the ID card, the certificates contained therein will also expire and cannot be longer than the validity period of the document, nor will it be possible to obtain a new certificate with an expired ID certificate. During that period, while respecting the principle of reasonable application of legal norms, persons who comply with the range of entities of this draft law will not be subject to administrative liability for the administrative violations provided for in Section 17(1) and (3) of the Law on Documents of Persons. Section 9(1) of the Law on Personal Documents provides that, starting from 1 January 2023, a mandatory identity document for a citizen of Latvia or a non-citizen who has reached the age of 15 years is an identity card. That provision shall remain unchanged and the obligation in question shall be maintained. On behalf of the Commission, I call on the Saeima to recognise the draft law as urgent and to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U3	Thank you. The Commission is therefore asking for the draft law to be declared urgent. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Documents of Persons” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 74, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent. The Commission had also asked it to support it at first reading... but we are starting a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U4	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, The law is clearly necessary and we also support the urgency of this draft law. The problem is that this draft law was needed months ago, three months ago, when we encouraged it, that such changes are necessary. To some extent, it is now the last moment. But I draw attention to the fact that this draft law sets a deadline of eight months - eight months - until this law works. Who should pay attention to the Saeima - so that the PMLP really respects this deadline. Earlier, three years ago, when changes were made to the laws on how to obtain new identity documents, the Saeima had a discussion on whether the PMLP would be able to deal with the duties assigned to them. As a result, we see people standing in long lines for hours. Even today the service is being offered - the service is being offered! - purchase of a line. People can pay money to get a line to get an identity document faster. Today, if someone wants to apply for an identity document, he has to be in the queue, as we have said in the Commission today, two months. By adopting this law, problems do not diminish: lines at the PMLP remain, state preparedness for such a challenge... remains. Problems in eight months if everything goes on as it has been... Nothing will change. I call for support for this draft law, but at the same time for the responsible ministry and government as a whole, to think about how to prevent, as soon as possible, the nature of the bardac that is currently taking place in the PMLP at the service of this document. As we also spoke to the Commission (from various personal experiences, as well as from the people) when entering... The PMLP itself provides this service in an average of 10 minutes. It's as if everything was fine, but what's going on outside the PMLP door is not an explanation for common sense. During the winter, seniors, young people, and people who should work at that time stand in long queues of days. And this is only because the government has not been able to prepare itself for these challenges within three years. Colleagues, I call for support for this draft law, but also for careful consideration of how these institutions are currently working.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U5	The name to Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U6	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, At the moment, we are witnessing that the Ministry of the Interior has not done its job properly and that the work of the PMLP has, in principle, been sufficiently poor. I'll explain why. First of all, this draft law is, in general, a legal anachronism for the reason that, if a person wishes to obtain an identity document and even has done so in good faith, he can exercise all the rights and obligations that the document gives him. In turn, the extension of the validity period - it opens the door in some way (the hall of noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) to the possibility of using a hunter's certificate which has already expired, such as an invalid driving licence.... What exactly is the difference? In many countries, the passport is issued by the following procedure: the person goes to the passport office, takes pictures, fills in the necessary documents, and the passport is sent by post. At the moment, there is a situation where if a Rigaian (a real example) wants to get a passport, then he has a record in the Prize after a few weeks. A person must give one day to go to this passport issuing body to complete all documents, and then give another day to go after it. For example, in England, Royal Mail sends a passport or other document by post. But the main problem is that now it is mandatory to have both a passport and an identity card, the so-called ID certificate, which means that the PMLP is being loaded on double... for a person to get both a passport and an ID card that is completely useless. Many seniors have an unlimited passport and do not need an ID card at all. So... For example, if you were also going to go outside the European Union, especially to those countries where there is... visa, with an ID card, you will only go to the Embassy door, and that's all because the visas are placed in the passport. It would be perfectly normal if this law were to be arranged directly with these two details: first of all, it would not be necessary to have an ID card or a certificate, and second time driving to the relevant institution would simply not exist – a passport or an ID card would be sent to a person by post. What, then, do we no longer trust “Latvijas Pasts”? So, I think, here is a typical and pure proof of government failure. The Ministry of the Interior has also established laws and regulations regarding the necessity of an ID card. The Ministry of the Interior is also responsible for this. That is why the Ministry of the Interior is currently presenting a correction of its error in such a form of legal anachronism. My call for you, my fellow Members, to put forward proposals in order to facilitate this procedure and thus solve the problem fundamentally. The other thing is worth talking about. Here we have been mentioned both the community's time and this issue, which is linked to a situation in which a person needs to go to the place where the passport is issued... Komvid's time isn't an excuse! Driving licences are issued very quickly by the Road Safety Directorate: there are no lines, no records, or have to go back to get them. So - should take over good practice from the CSDD. On the other hand, the work of the Office for Citizenship and Migration should, in this case, however, be considered with regard to dose criticism. Colleagues, that is why this draft law should be supplemented accordingly. The deadline for tabling proposals is certainly necessary, and I will certainly object to re-examination... without a review by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U7	The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U8	Hello, Speaker of the Saeima! Hello, colleagues! Last time, I asked how many of you understood the bill. Now I ask, How many of you have read your passport from cover to cover? I did it, I read it. This passport contains one sentence (Laughter) ... one very important sentence (interfaces.) That will make you think twice. Namely - a sentence that the passport belongs to the Republic of Latvia. What does that mean? This means that the state has entrusted its instrument to the citizens of the country. We are now faced with a document that... the State has not taken steps to restore it in time. Ms. Rose, Chairman of the PMLP, as early as August last year, when we and the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption were at the meeting in Latgale, the problem was raised - that the deadline was approaching fast... a very large number of passports will expire. No one was... did not say that this issue should be dealt with quickly; that there would be any problems. No, it's gonna be fine. And more. The question arose: will we really do all this before the elections? Unfortunately, we see that this has not happened. And why didn't it happen? It's not because... as we read at the moment, it is the community that is guilty. Now I have an enticing question for colleagues: do you know where five million were spent, giving the science 10 projects each half a million? Let us ignore the famous salad recipes, but there are two projects to improve the ventilation facilities of the public authorities in order to prevent the community from spreading. Have any of these projects been implemented so far? I asked this question, if I am not mistaken, four months ago, to the officials of the Ministry of Health who said in a word: “Well, we know somewhere that this project is there, but it has not been used.” So five million have already been shot in the air, or put in a beautiful shelf, and nobody! - not be bound by what the State has bought for its money. And now I come back to the question of passports. I understand that most of the Members have read it, however, because it caused laughter in the hall... My view is that, at present, the PMLP should work as much as 24 hours a day to exchange passports in a timely manner. And so that the state does not care for... treat my instrument, not with the same negligence as it has been before, but rather with a much more serious issue. Public institutions should now work outside the usual time - not from nine to four, but even on Saturdays and Sundays. And maybe you have to start working six and finish eleven at night, when people can get there. And something else. If I remember correctly, the PMLP bought mobile stations to be able to issue identification cards and also passports. Where are these machines? Why are they not used? Why should people still go to the PMLP units if this could be solved in the nearby municipality by the PMLP during the departure sessions where people could arrive at their time? Unfortunately, there is no answer to this question either. And the answer is not because the public authorities are currently only thinking about their own benefits. The Covid is now a very good cover for everything that cannot be done. And that will happen again and again: this obscuration with the community will continue. All of the country's failings that we are currently experiencing will be able to continue to move calmly to the community. And now, too, to the war. There's a tendency to shift to war. War and Communion - two things: the ideal combination that allows you to do nothing. Colleagues! I really call on you to think very seriously about the progress of this draft law. I will vote 'no' because I believe that the country has not taken care of its document; that the country has not had tasks at the heights and that it must stop pulling the cat behind the tail, because, apologies, this animal is dead. There are possibilities to produce and deliver new passports to citizens at any time, at any time of the day, if the organisation of work is correct and if the forces are correctly distributed. I believe that Mrs Rose would teach you how to organise it if there were an order. I do not think that the issue should be moved forward at this point. I repeat myself, but, as you know, the repetition is the mother of knowledge. And maybe those who don't listen will hear this somewhere with the tip of the ear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U9	Name to Member Ainārs Vilciņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U10	Good afternoon, everybody! As colleagues said: "Debe to Train." Come to the tribunal for the first time, talk to Members and ask them to listen... There's such a strange worry... With regard to this document, which has been produced quite quickly, I would like to ask precisely all those who have submitted it: is it useful? So the question is this, given that we live in a digital environment and it is possible to clean up the paperwork really quickly. Three years ago, just three years ago, it was promised that all the papers - both passports and ID cards - could be arranged in a timely manner. Now it seems to me that we are fighting the consequences. Why don't you look at the cause? The proposals were very good for both Member Nemir and Member Možvillo, who said that we should finally start working. If we need it (Miscellaneously.) ... It is interesting that it is interesting for Members to listen to what is happening in the Chamber, not to hear what is said by what is coming to say. So once again, I will ask all the Members who are currently in the Chamber not to support this draft law, because there is still a whole month to solve the problem. And, as we understand, if this... is extended until April next year. then the problem does not disappear because it is expected that there will be already 300 thousand in April for which its passports will be invalid. So for this moment... I'm going to ask you to listen and not to direct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U11	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U12	The question of passports and ID cards is, in fact, the question of the attitude of power towards citizens of the Republic of Latvia. If our power forces citizens of the Republic of Latvia to stand in long queues and drive all over Latvia to get their identity document, then, dear people, understand what the power is thinking about you. It seems to me that an identity document is not a document for which a citizen of the Republic of Latvia has to pay money and which has to stand in line from four in the morning... Whether you should travel to Smilten to apply to remove this document from Valka the next day or the next day. In addition, this happens at a time when we are at a distance. Even the sittings of the Saeima committee are held at a distance to us. Everything is so modern! It happens at a time when every bank... both before and after financial “capital renovation”... send this card home when the debit or credit card expires. It seems to me that if the country has set a deadline for any of these documents and this deadline ends, then the state should take action itself and send the document to people at a distance... without officials who are unable to carry out their duties. There is still such a little thought in this regard. If there is already a shortage of staff in the Office of Citizenship and Migration Affairs, then perhaps it is necessary to move from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to politicalism. Perhaps the former Minister for the Interior should go to Golubeva's help in printing these documents. She was proud that some warrant had been given a good job. Maybe all of these Ordered Ministers have to go and make their passports for our people, not really how successful they have been in running the country for 20 years and how many years there... with all of the entities referred to in points (a) We're talking about having some smart... I don't know what they're gonna do there smartly... Passports can't be made for your people. Passports! One document, less than two million copies! You don't have enough typography? When you have to advertise and put on the walls of buildings or pen you have to print or something else, then the printing works are located, the money is located, everything else. But when people need to make an identity document, it's nothing again. Then, just the Orders... Is that not the case? That's it. That's it! Then put on the fist, the flags, and--the way forward! Show me one! - to develop a world country like Scandinavia (you are heading towards Scandinavia!) , where people stand in queues for months to get their country's passport. Is that so in America? Finland? Sweden? Which country is that? Is it in Lithuania or Estonia? No, not in any, it is only in Latvia. Because our country is actually led by people who are not interested in our country, who are not interested in our country's citizens; who are interested in empty tastes with flags and hordes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U13	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U14	Dear colleagues, A lot of correct words have been said today, because indeed the problems here were, there are and remain. Maybe let us remember how we amended the Saeima Election Law, allowing the use of ID cards in the Saeima elections... and so on. But that's not what we're talking about today. Naturally, the Ministry of the Interior had long had to take care that this draft law did not come as a matter of urgency and just before the elections. Undoubtedly. Naturally, the Authority for Citizenship and Migration has its own problems and needs to be corrected and, as far as I know, its problems have been identified. Today, it is a very simple matter. The State has set the period of validity of the identity documents. And today, in view of the situation called out by the community, the behaviors and so on, but still... to help live people fulfil their civil duty to go to the elections, extend their term of validity until such and such time. That's the time I understand... and I think that the Saeima's control here should be... also intended to sort out these things in general, but today's decision and today's draft law are not about the desire to punish the Ministry of the Interior or the PMLP, but to help people solve the problem they are not guilty of. That is why I am calling for possible criticisms to be made today on future occasions, but to support the relevant draft law, because it is really necessary for people, not for officials and Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U15	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U16	Thank you, colleagues. Many of the questions mentioned here and many others were raised during the committee meeting. The Commission agreed that this solution is indeed the most optimal solution at this point in time and would be acceptable, but the Commission also agreed that a separate panel meeting would be held in the near future to discuss all other issues on how to improve and how work is already being improved in the administration of Citizenship and Migration Affairs. I therefore call on the Saeima, on behalf of the Commission, to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U17	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Documents for Persons”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U18	During the meeting of the Commission, it was stated that it would be necessary to clarify further the rules between the Parliament’s Legal Office... and representatives of the Ministry of the Interior also expressed this, so the Commission decided to set a deadline for the submission of proposals - one hour and a second reading - at today's, 30 August, extraordinary meeting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U19	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone for Uldis Budrik.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U20	Hello, colleagues! I would propose a deadline for the submission of proposals - 15 minutes and for the examination - for today's sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U21	So there are proposals: the deadline for proposals is one hour and 15 minutes. We must vote for the next. Let us vote in favour of the deadline of the proposals, one hour. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the deadline for submitting proposals to the draft law "Amendment to the Law on Documents for Persons" - one hour! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 17, for - 52, for - 7. So the deadline for tabling proposals is one hour is not supported. The deadline for submitting proposals remains in force - 15 minutes... Up to 11.50? By 11.50 a.m. And consideration - today, August 30, Saeima sitting. Thank you. First reading of the draft law “Amendments to the law on support for the management of sanctions and economic consequences caused by Russian military aggression against Ukraine”. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U22	Hello, colleagues! We can see the draft law “Amendments to the law on support for the management of sanctions and economic consequences caused by Russian military aggression against Ukraine”. The draft law was designed to mitigate the effects of military aggression on energy intensive manufacturing operators, which are reflected in additional costs resulting from a sharp increase in energy prices. The draft law provides for aid in the form of grants to energy-intensive manufacturing companies, i.e. companies with energy costs of at least 10 per cent of the total costs. The support programme has been established in accordance with the European Union's temporary crisis framework for State aid measures. The Commission is asking for urgency and support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U23	Mr. Cabanov, you want to talk about urgency? The urgency? Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the law on support for the economic consequences of the sanctions and countermeasures imposed by the Russian military aggression against Ukraine”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The draft law has been declared urgent. Can we start the debate? Let us start a debate. Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U24	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to Article 2(4) of this draft law, namely, among those who will not receive support, are both entities of international and national sanctions, which are correct, as well as companies which have legal and natural persons from the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus as their founders. It is the latter that I would like to talk about. If a Russian citizen has long lived in Latvia on the basis of a permanent residence permit and has been performing legal economic activity here for decades... When in the middle of that... Is the influence of the Russian Federation spreading, or can it be likened to a state of the Russian Federation? It is clear, however, that such persons cannot under any circumstances have an impact on the Kremlin's policy towards Ukraine. Let us take an example. One businessman, a Russian citizen, suddenly learned that Russia is attacking Ukraine while living in Latvia. Did he have the opportunity to renounce Russian citizenship, to naturalize or otherwise change his status in this half-year? You understand that was impossible. Thus, in my opinion, the Ministry of Economics has arbitrarily excluded several plants from the list of eligible undertakings from the draft law - namely companies with a turnover of millions of euros, with a large workforce, with large workshops and a production cycle that requires energy. The export potential of their companies is high, but currently the Russian and Belarusian markets account for most of the orders packages and they are closed. In my opinion, the Republic of Latvia should support all Latvian companies belonging to Latvian citizens, non-citizens and permanent residents. Citizenship does not seem to be a criterion for supporting businesses. We do not know anything about the political views of the owners of these companies. I am convinced that these people respect Latvian laws and provide work for many hundreds of Latvian people. I hope that colleagues will listen to my objections and will exclude this wording from the future examination of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U25	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added on behalf of the Commission, please?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U26	The Commission supported the proposal for a first-reading move.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U27	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on support for the economic consequences of the sanctions and countermeasures imposed by the Russian military aggression against Ukraine! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U28	The deadline for tabling proposals - 15 minutes, second reading - today's parliamentary extraordinary sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U29	There are no other proposals. Consequently, the deadline for tabling proposals - 30 August this year by 11 55 a.m., consideration - at today's parliamentary sitting, 30 August. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Exceptional Price Reduction Measures for Energy Prices”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U30	Colleagues! The aim of this draft law is to reduce the overall negative impact on the economy from rising energy prices. It provides for the establishment of a time-limited state aid measure for final electricity users – legal entities – i.e. a full reduction in the electricity system service fee, which will be covered by state budget funds. The aid does not concern legal entities which are public or municipal authorities. The Commission is asking for urgency to be given to the draft law and to support it at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U31	Mr. Valains, you want to talk about urgency? Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the law on exceptional increases in energy prices”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent. And I understand that Members wanted to speak in the debate, if? Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U32	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I will touch only one part of this draft law. I have already talked a lot about the fact that the support offered by the government is not enough, but here we are talking about capital companies. Therefore, which capital companies will be eligible for the aid? As the rapporteur said, a very precise and, in my opinion, very important point has been said that this draft law will not apply to state-owned and municipal capital companies. What does this mean in real life? In real life, this means that most likely a series of ice will be closed in the near future... school. I would like to see the challenge of how the operation of swimming pools in Latvia will be ensured in the future. Show me those municipalities that have the resources in the accounts to pay double, triple increases in energy prices. This law does not apply to them. Nor does this law apply to our hospitals. Hospitals will continue to be able to fight just as before. Increase in energy prices... There is an information report in the government on some kind of potential support that hospital representatives have been talking about for a long time, but, in fact, this support is not actually being provided. That's how... What's going on, colleagues? These costs are borne by the citizens themselves through the tariff. And there's no other way out, someone has to pay the bills. If the state does not come to the aid, then it is shifted to the shoulders of the people. The same applies to our universities... the public sector as a whole. Colleagues, you're in this law, wanting to... Capital companies are a whole range of institutions. But who gets this support? Colleagues, if we read what is written here, come together so that one of the most generous beneficiaries of the Covid-19 was - what? Colleagues, first place? ( Internouncing call.) Let me remember. Again, my colleagues are reminding me that gambling halls are. This support will now be available for gambling halls, but will not be available for swimming pools, ice halls, hospitals, universities. All these institutions, colleagues, are excluded at this point, but other types of commercial operators will be free to apply. Colleagues, do you not think there has been a small but significant mistake here? This draft law is clearly welcome at first reading. God with them - let's have those gambling drugs! If necessary, if they are really so hard to do without tensioning, we also give us support to hospitals, swimming pools. They also need this support. I therefore call for this draft law to be significantly improved to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U33	The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U34	Colleagues! Especially Mr. Valaiņš, who is not listening right now! The draft law should be read in full. This does not apply to municipal capital companies. Capital companies will receive this compensation (interim: ‘How?’ ), but the problem is elsewhere. The entry ‘for public authorities and local authorities’ is replaced by the following: And there's a pit here, I was in the commission and I asked this question to the Ministry of Economics. The Ministry of Economy considers that this compensation mechanism will not apply to public authorities and local authorities. Not to capital companies - capital companies will be - but straight to institutions. Short course. What is a municipal authority? A municipal institution is one which is registered in the register under the registration number nine and then zero (five or six) which distinguishes municipalities and public authorities respectively from the other registered in the register. What does that mean? The municipal school is also registered as an institution with this registration number. And the school won't get this support. This means that the school will have to pay for electricity as much as it pays. A kindergarten. The municipalities also register kindergartens as institutions. Social services are also registered as institutions. Heat suppliers, water supply companies are also registered as municipal authorities. Not in all but in some municipalities. And the problem here is that the local authorities in which these authorities are located will pay the full cost of electricity. I have tabled a proposal for next reading - to remove even local authorities. What the Ministry of Economics says is that we cannot filter out what is a school that is a kindergarten, but something else - that is stupid. It's completely silly. At modern IT possibilities we can filter it very easily. Colleagues, I am calling for a very serious approach to this event, because the fact that the local government budget was once about 600 million... At the moment, this balance has fallen considerably, as much has been put on the shoulders of municipalities in the fight against the community and also in support of Ukraine. At present, these additional funds are no longer available to municipalities. Some municipalities are already worried about how to pay electricity bills. Marupe Municipality already does not know how to pay. And that's the next step... to which we are now approaching. It is that we shouted so lightly in the spring that there will be problems in the autumn, in the heating season, but then comforted - nothing, warm summer, we're going here like nothing, we're going on vacation, let's rest our heads, hands, torsos and come with new forces. That new force will then be needed for self-heating in the winter and for care to escape those people who are inexpensive. Why did I say that? I have argued that more and more news is now coming about that in many municipalities purchases for new boilers and chips have been stopped, ended without result or the offerer has withdrawn his offer. Why? This is because, already in the spring, the procurement law I mentioned and the repeated procurement law now provide for a very long procedure, especially at this time of crisis. What does that mean? For example, currently in Ķekava within the framework of CFLA, the purchase of two chips for the construction of boilers has been discontinued, as the applicant has responded to its offer. The applicant has been told by the German and Austrian suppliers that the price of the boiler during these three months has increased from 30 to 50 per cent, which is not foreseen in the procurement, which in turn is not intended to be financed and draws the bureaucratic procedure with him so that the purchase in this case must be suspended. What does that mean? All summer balls are pushed from one pocket to another and have been told that in the autumn everything will be. In the autumn, it's gonna be all right. It's not gonna be pots. At the same time, local producers who could do so are not heard. The problems that I am talking about already in spring (on the delivery of chips, on the provision of chips, on these boiler houses... that there should act quickly, do this procedure quickly), did not hear. Now we are actually a month away from zero degrees outside, and there is no solution yet. What do I mean by that? These problems are mature, and I understand that some may not be concerned, because after a month they will go in other business fields, not here anymore, but next ones, there will be future problems, and they will be in the winter when people ask: where is the promised heat, you told me that there will be. Well, I could take two and warm up, but that's all. And how many can you do? And can you? It is therefore important to understand at the moment how this situation is going out. And it's not just this law that I mentioned about reducing electricity prices for municipalities. It also involves what it will be and whether it will be heat or heat. The same applies to whether the heat will be where still lives in illusions that the gas will be “forever”. I think that these problems will soon come to light. And knowing the patience of the Latvian people, sometime it can explode. Warmness is one of the reasons why people can show aggression against power, because at the moment nothing... and I also don't see anyone doing anything to solve it right now. So, colleagues, I am calling for the first reading to be directed, but for the municipalities to be taken out. If the public authorities need a reduction in electricity - come on, senior official, defend, prove that the public authorities also need this reduction, but in the municipal field, I know absolutely that this reduction is critically necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U35	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U36	In recent times, we have quite often met in extraordinary sittings of the Saeima and are looking at draft laws that seem to provide support to citizens. In my opinion, this very clear and beautifully demonstrates the incompetent and inconsistent behaviour of the government. One piece of aid is offered to the poor, then to the households, then to the coal, then to the gas, by pulling the cat behind the tail, and now we are looking at the distribution service operators. Instead of addressing, in a targeted and systematic way, the serious problems facing us this autumn and winter, the government is trying to push through a drop of support measures for citizens who are already unable to pay their bills. ‘ Riga House Manager” already starts paying and looking for additional staff in legal services to carry out recovery measures from people who will not be able to pay municipal bills. Instead of providing people with support, “Riga House Manager” is looking for lawyers, and recovery this year... In winter there will certainly be the work that will be most rewarded. If we are talking specifically about what measures other countries have put in place, Germany plans to support citizens and businesses in the form of tax. France intends to motivate companies to pay bonuses. Latvia plans to hire workers in the state administration remotely and, therefore, to provide for certain support measures for them. What does the Ministry of Economics offer businesses to reduce inflation to ensure that they can pay off compensatory measures for heat and electricity to their employees? Nothing. The government pulls the cat by the tail in a piece. This draft law and proposed solutions are also just a small piece, not systematic and qualitative help for Latvian citizens.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U37	The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U38	Hello, colleagues! Today, the government and the ruling coalition have had the opportunity to demonstrate that they still have a real idea of what is happening in the country. Just a week ago, we talked about the fact that it is not normal for schools, kindergartens, hospitals, fire station and police stations to be excluded from the state aid system. As if they won't have winter, and as if they won't get cold in January. Already, several hospitals, schools and kindergartens have been forced to increase their catering fees. The amount of co-financing for parents is increased, because it is no secret that the Baltic States and Latvia are recordists in terms of inflation in the European Union. And product prices, I hope you each see when you visit one of the stores, whether it’s “Lidl” or “Sky”. The cheese “Card” costs more than 50 cents... Ignoring and, more importantly, placing in one... Article 3.1, together with the sanctions... to the persons belonging to this here - state and municipal authorities... Well, you know, it's really a joke. I realize there's some far-reaching idea in there... maybe the municipalities would start trading with the government. I do not know what has been placed there, what political nuances, but the fact that this draft law is not currently intended to support the people of Latvia - it is clear. The part of Article 3.1 relating to public authorities and local authorities must be removed from the draft law. You have to take it. If this is not done, I will call on the government to vote against this draft law in its entirety today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U39	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U40	About 100 kilowatt hours of electricity - each and every. It is not about electricity prices and how much it will cost the public budget. Also, whether it is possible or not, or whether it is too much or too little. The question is only about the state's attitude towards its citizens - the attitude of coalition parties, I stress, the attitude of the Unity cartel parties towards people. There is now an economic crisis in the country. Inflation is above 20 percent, energy prices are rising at times rather than by percentage. Of course, there is no reward. Some have some savings, others have long since gone. It is particularly difficult for families with children, where income is below the average in Latvia, as well as pensioners. How do they survive this winter? How to pay new heating and electricity bills? The opposition has very recently made a proposal not to impose penalties on late payment bills and not to let people go to the street for failing to pay the public debt. The coalition laughed at it. A coalition of Unity laughed at it. They don't see the problem. The coalitions, that is, the UNITEDS, politicians are lobbying the bailiffs, not their voters. It is very likely that Unity voters are also bailiffs. These wet birds are already ringing over your problems and waiting patiently. The meal is generously paid. For example, foreign invoices are wasted from the state budget. This year - 90 million airBaltic, co-bedled, every 600 thousand, 300 million help to Ukraine. Even monkeys get 45 million in the Riga Zoo. ‘ Latvenergo, along with other Baltic energy companies, is tearing seven skins from its customers and earning hundreds of millions of lives. Is that normal? Does that mean that you do not have to take care of your own people, the people of your own country? And then what is the country, if not its citizens? Moreover, this charity is at the expense of the future of the country. We borrow to squander money for foreign interests. Our public debt has risen to 17 billion. Little debt is made up of unreasonable expenditure and stolen money, debt will have to be repaid to all of us and especially to our children. Our children will also be forced to pay for the work done by the Unity and the National Alliance. That is why Latvia needs other politicians - politicians who think about people who live here on the ground. Latvia can afford to give its residents 100 kilowatt-hours per month and 50 kilowatt-hours for each child, so that parents can give lunch money to school. Unless there's a will. When voting on coalition parties, that is, on Unity, National Association and other Unity satellites... With girdles, sandstones and the rest... You will never be supported, dear people. Never. You will have the next OIC, the next phase. And the power of Unity will continue for another four years - against your interests. I have to repeat at this point: Latvia can afford to each pensioner and each pensioner this winter, during this time of crisis, to grant a one-hundredth of a discount for average electricity consumption. In particular, all pensioners can receive free electricity at the expense of Latvenergo's insane profit. Latvia can afford to pay 100 kilowatts for each family with one, two or more children and 50 kilowatt hours for each child at the expense of Latvenergo's foolish profit. Latvia can afford not to spend 45 million monkeys, but spend each household so that children can run in school. Latvia can afford to pay electricity bills for pools, sports classes, hockey halls, so that children can have sports activities and children can go to school - to Latvenergo's insane profits and the OIC number one or two or three. Latvia can afford to supply our people the cheapest electricity. If the company found out what the cost is for one kilowatt produced in Latvia... But you, dear people, will never say this, because it is good for the Unity and the politicians of the Unity cartel to sell cheaply produced electricity in Latvia - with some intermediaries - on the Nord Pool exchange, which is a fiction to buy back. Latvia must withdraw from Nord Pool now and set a fixed amount of electricity prices. In order for Latvia to winter, it is necessary to set the chips in the export embargo rather than with the participation of the Minister of Agriculture of the National Association and others, Latvian wood must be returned in cheap manner to Sweden. Yes, the same slice that factories could operate in Latvia, fuel, heat... and very likely to produce electricity. But it is not a good thing for the political cartel of Unity and National Alliances. Dear people, if you want to make it essential for you in this winter of the crisis - not cosmetic, but essential! - electricity price discounts, you have to make your decision in the elections. You have to vote in favour of them...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U41	Colleagues, perhaps, turn to the draft law, not to the elections. Do not use, please, these tribunals in terms of elections. Debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U42	So, there's only one political power going to these elections...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U43	For the bill, please! Please do not use...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U44	... which offers low-cost electricity to the public.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U45	Thank you. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U46	You saw yourself: I was not allowed to finish when I was talking about cheap electricity.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U47	We're talking about the bill. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U48	Dear colleagues! Well, the main purpose of this draft law is to have appeared in society and to be grateful to the ruling coalition for its care for people. That she cares... was the result of very long negotiations, it is also clear. That its speeches have not yet been finished and that process will continue - that is true too. That is why what has been done in some kind of salt is something that needs to be supported. But the problem is much deeper. More recently, a few days ago, if I am not mistaken, Mr Urzula von der Leien, President of the European Commission, said that decisions should be taken to reorganise the gas market system in Europe. This means that the main reason is not the secondary effects, but the fundamentals - how the energy supply in the European Union was organised, under what conditions and under what mechanisms. This is a serious issue that we will also have to come back to. Regarding what is planned... On the bill. Local authorities should be excluded here, of course, because the next step, if not done, is already being prepared today, say, in the corridors of the Ministry of Education and Science, where all schools are already seriously discussing the possibility of moving from 1 October to remote training. Yes, really, there's going to be a complete economy, an energy economy, but it's going to be shifted to families, and there's going to be some kind of compensation, but... Such events have already been discussed and are under preparation. I do not rule out that the Ministry of Health is also preparing current measures to optimise the hospital network or to increase patients' contributions to cover increased maintenance costs, and so on. All this is still in front of us. But when it comes to the specific draft law - apart from this position on municipal institutions, because it is detrimental to the general public, all Latvian people - it could be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U49	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U50	Dear people, you noticed - I offered a way to provide cheap electricity to Latvian society, and for that I was unlocked by a microphone. I remind you: for every pensioner in Latvia this winter at the expense of Latvenergo, at the expense of Latvenergo's profit, it is possible to provide for half a year - the average amount of energy consumption of the pensioner - free electricity. The same applies to large families. But this will never happen if Unity and National Association remain in power. They're gonna turn off the microphone... and will disable your property rights when you cannot pay bills. You need to understand that. The only thing they do is, butaphoria with flags...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U51	For the bill, Mr Gobzem, please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U52	... not real support for people. There will be real support for people, I repeat for the third time, leaving Nord Pool - today, cutting Latvenergo's profits to zero - today. And the return of this profit to people - today. ‘ By returning the profits of Latvenergo to people today, pensioners will not have to pay for electricity this winter. It's just so simple... mathematically. I will not start a difficult discussion about how the prices for the electricity re-allocation in the Distribution Network are screwed up. I will not start talking at all about the number of excesses fed into various electricity-related procurements. Cole's family could tell more about this. I will only talk about Latvenergo's profits: insane profits in times of crisis. This is understood by the entire Latvian society. The existing coalition of power, this coalition of power, does not work, people, have never worked for you, and everything proves. This is demonstrated by the fact that every day you become poorer and poorer; that your number... the number of people forced to leave Latvia is increasing. This is demonstrated by a downtown; it is demonstrated by companies that are unable to pay electricity bills; it is demonstrated by any ice hall where children train, sports, or any swimming pool. Any bakery of bread proves this. This coalition of power does not care for people. And all who are ready to work with the Unity are exactly the same. All of them. So remember that. Those I hope do not have a golden fish memory, remember it in 30 days and change your life and life! Start to respect, dear people, yourself and your own interests – your own, your child, your family interests! Otherwise you will simply be taken away in the spring, just like you have been... And it has been experienced by many members of Latvian society, who are impatiently taken away from housing, and the wages are taken away unfailingly. Hundreds, thousands of people have experienced it with this existing power. Open up, people, eyes! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U53	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U54	The Commission supported the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U55	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on “Amendments to the Law on the Exceptional Increase in Energy Prices”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and a time limit for their consideration at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U56	Time to submit proposals - 15 minutes. And the second reading of the bill - today's Saeima in an extraordinary sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U57	Please turn on the microphone for Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U58	I would like to propose a deadline of one hour for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U59	So two proposals have been put forward for the deadline for tabling proposals: the first one hour, and the second 15 minutes. Colleagues, we must first vote on a further time-limit of one hour. So let us vote in favour of the deadline of the proposals, one hour. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the deadline for submitting proposals to the draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Exceptional Increase in Energy Prices" - one hour! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 29, for - 46, for - 3. The proposal is not supported. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals remains in force for 15 minutes. So the deadline for proposals is August 30 by 12:35 this year. Review - today, August 30, extraordinary sitting. Colleagues, we have examined the agenda of the sitting. The commissions responsible will go to work. This means that the Bureau will convene a further extraordinary meeting today, but not when the commissions finish their work, but when the Bureau receives documents and tables from the commissions. So I'm asking for a little patience. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name Dagmarai Beitnerei-Le Gallai for reading the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U60	Not registered: Valery Agešins, Uldis Augulis, Jānis Butāns, Jānis Cielēns, Boriss Cilevičs, Anda Čakša, Gundars Dzintars, Janīna Jalinska, Artuss Kaimiņš, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Armands Krauze, Ralfs Nemiro, Eriks Pucens, Juris Pūce, Ivans Ribakovs, Dace Rukšāne-Ščipčinska, Andris Skride, Ilga Šuplinska and Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-30-PT13-2404-U61	Thank you. Consequently, I closed the meeting of the second extraordinary session of 30 August this year.
