ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room. We will continue to examine the agenda of the ordinary sitting of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 8 September 2022. Colleagues, we are ready to work, we can start. On the agenda, consideration of the draft decision. Draft decision on the exclusion of Member Alda Gobzem from six sittings of the Saeima. Member Normunds Gunna on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U2	Hello, colleagues! In its meeting of 21 June this year, the panel examined the applications of Member Alda Gobzems, Marija Golubeva, Iveta Benhen-Beken, Līva Kreituse, Andrejs Judin and Mārtiņš Stein, who were asked to evaluate the actions of Member Alda Gobzems on 8 June this year, when he used insulting and uncensored lexics when he was in the Saeima’s meeting room. The Commission, with 10 Members voting in favour and one against, initiated a case of violation of the Code of Conduct of Members of the Saeima. In its examination of the proposal, the Commission found that Member Aldis Gobzems had acted in violation of paragraphs 5, 6, 7 and 16 of the Code of Ethics of Members of the Saeima. In accordance with Rule 179(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the Saeima, the Commission decided, with six Members voting in favour, three against and one non-voting, to encourage the Saeima to exclude Mr Aldi Gobzem from the six sittings of the Saeima. Please support the draft decision prepared by the Saeima on the exclusion of Member Alda Gobzem from six sittings of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U3	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U4	I ask you to unite the times.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U5	There is a request to unite the times of the debate. If there is no objection, the times of the debate shall be joined up.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U6	This is my last speech 13. In the family. I am often accused of being sharp and too direct. He suggested that we should not always talk about what I thought. But, you know, I wasn't able to do that at all. I think and hope that at least part of you could not, if you were able to take a fair look at what is happening, not through the prism of the propaganda that you have created, but from a higher point from which it can be seen how Latvia goes from the past to the future. As it is, to the future we are building today. You would see that there is no future for the Latvian people. There is no sustainability that everyone is talking about. The power is still there, but it will not be long unless the people wake up. We're dying. It's so simple. Every year our number is reduced by 20 thousand or more. One medium-sized city of Latvia disappears every year, and no one here in the Saeima is worried. Outside the Saeima, I do. But here in the Saeima, we have confidence that we will issue a law prohibiting something, and everything will be fine. You cannot preserve the Latvian language by issuing laws and prohibitions. It's funny and even harmful. Latvian language is threatened in this territory only because of the extinction of the nation. When less than half of Latvian citizens will be Latvians, other laws will be passed. That must be understood. It's not complicated. Only Latvian can be saved by creating children and raising them in Latvian traditions. The Latvian language will not be saved by raising the salaries of the Prime Minister and Saeima Members, by wearing the traditions of primordial wearing and by speaking in a pathetic manner with attached flags. Language and culture can only be saved by the people themselves, who see and go to their future. A people who donate for their children - just as our ancestors have sacrificed for their children. It is its right welfare formula. The only way to ensure prosperity is to invest in our children. But what is happening in the reality of elected politicians? Which one's worried? Why is the money given to all, not to children, but to education and science? These are three things that will determine our future and our prosperity. And these three things are in the last place on the list. At the average income of Latvia, parents with two children are at risk of poverty. Teachers need to be reminded of themselves. Science is almost the least funded in Europe. What future do you expect? Money without problems is found in all kinds of unnecessary things, such as buying the Biķernieki lands, sinking airBaltic, even the monkey house will get its 45 million. And together, it's hundreds of millions of euros. I do not want to mention the energy crisis, inflation and economic stagnation at all. We must not forget at a time of crisis what the future of Latvia is and where. That's why I'm gonna make it sharp. Ladies and gentlemen! It's time to wake up. If I were silently smacking myself under my nose all these years, I wouldn't be observed. I didn't see another exit. And I don't regret anything. Next - 14. - The Saeima will have a difficult task: to turn the Latvian ship away from the edge of the blood - to the country with the future. And start with children and education. And we will. And hopefully without much of those present. And more. A country in which the lobby of gambling and insolvency administrators in the Saeima and government is stronger than the lobby of entrepreneurs cannot develop. Such a country is destined to disappear in the dust of history. We remember who was then receiving the biggest compensation during the pandemic. The first three most highly compensated were gambling companies. Remember, too, the rejection of the proposals for non-collection of fines and the ban on street placing and disposal of property for public debt in times of crisis. They were rejected because the Maya birds were closer to them from insolvency administrators and bailiffs. They want to eat, and the crisis and human disasters are the right time for the harvest. They are important to Kariņš and especially to the National Association, which takes care of the future of the Latvian people in words, but in my works they destroy it. That's what you need to know about this power. But otherwise, thank you! Thank you to anyone who created me for that Aldi Gobzem, as I am today. Thank you to my constituents, and also to you who are sitting in this Chamber and who have tried to destroy me in every way, especially for the safety and well-being of my children. Thank you. ( Internouncing call.) Thank you to the people of Latvia – Latvians and Russians – for giving me an independent warmth of heart. It filled my life. Come, people, behind me, and this warmth of the heart will revive our country. It's going to flourish! I know that. And thank you very much. ( Intercretion: “You have no heart. ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U7	The name to Member Karin Scratch.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U8	Good morning, Madam President of the Saeima. Good morning, colleagues! I want to start by saying that Member Aldis Gobzems has been excluded from the 13th Saeima sittings, and I believe (and figures show) that he is the most resentable Member in the course of a hundred years. He once received a warning that Twitter wrote about the society, was excluded from one sitting of the Saeima because Facebook gave a picture of the earmuff attached to the shirt. Once, from six sittings of the Saeima, it was excluded because it was not possible to present a Covid-19 certificate, and from six sittings of the Saeima it was excluded because it met with its constituents. Now you want to exclude him from the next six sittings of the Saeima, because he called Member Riekstin, but I guess I'll let you go... these paragraphs and I will not even comment today on Riekstin's behaviour at the Saeima sitting. We are sitting here in the Saeima in criminal proceedings. Mr Pouce, who even runs a car through corrupt methods, is also sitting in the Saeima. How is it that a Member extradited for criminal prosecution can take part in the work of the Saeima, it is not at least an ethical violation, but a coalition Member as a cretin - that is not acceptable, and the highest penalty measure is applicable? Members' work is to speak about and vote on issues to be discussed in the Saeima. The Member has been given a mandate by voters whose interests the Member is representing. No particular education or experience is required in order to become a member, as a member is an elected representative of the people. The people themselves decide who to give and how to give this authority. The people have given the mandate to prosecute people, but the mandate has also been given to Aldim Gobzem. Members shall not have a contract of employment with the Bureau or with other Members. Leting a Member represent the interests of his constituents, denying his professional activities - that is, a decision that would otherwise be taken by a court, and coalition Members are not a court. Yes, you can condemn them from a personal point of view, you can write records, give interviews about what has happened and express your views, you can debate, but you can restrict your professional activity only by a court in individual cases. For me, this code of conduct does not seem to be disproportionate. I call on you to reject this decision. Two weeks left. I think this is a very absurd decision that has been prepared. I therefore call for the 'no' vote. I know that all this offends you personally, but you have to leave your personal things behind the building. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U9	The name to Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U10	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Aldis Gobzems has had enough sharpness in various expressions; statistically traditionally he has been one of the leaders in the debate. But, honourable colleagues, if we are talking about this particular situation, this issue was in a conflict between two Members. And the conflict cannot be one-sided, it is a dispute in which two parties participate. Submissions from both parties were submitted and considered by the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications. Of course, there is no fault with each other, but when we make this decision (whether we support it or not), we need to think about proportionality. Aldis Gobzems may have been sharp in this case, yes, and perhaps it does not correspond to the ethics of the Saeima, which in turn means that the punishment would actually be appropriate for this type of action. Consequently, the decision to initiate a case is correct, but the question is, how harsh should it be? The most extreme punishment, colleagues, is the exclusion from six sittings of the Saeima. If we read a little before the occupation, we can hear very harsh, very sharp expressions of political opponents in them, and this is obviously in some sense in parliamentary work. As a result, I believe that from six sittings (especially now, when perhaps there are six sittings left)... to exclude a Member from the Saeima's composition is too severe and too harsh. Let us not forget the most important thing: the parliamentary mandate and the right to participate in Parliament's work are given by the voter. Whatever the Member is, however, he represents a relevant part of the public, which in turn means that, by excluding him from the parliament... Member Aldi Gobzem, his constituents are currently not represented. Colleagues, is that really democratic? I believe that this time it is too harsh. We could talk about the fact that the decision could be either to issue a warning or to use other means, but since only one proposal was made at the committee's sitting (and I also participated in it), it was also supported without discussion. The debate was more about whether this infringement procedure should be initiated at all. As two parties were involved in the dispute, the submissions of both parties were examined, one was rejected... the other was severely and severely punished. In my opinion, this is disproportionate and I therefore call for this draft decision not to be supported. I think that the Member has already understood what he has done and would probably have done otherwise in the future as well. In addition, we saw this in the committee sitting at which this particular punishment was imposed - the Member no longer has such an expression... did not do what seems to show us that conduct has changed. Therefore, colleagues, I call for no support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U11	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U12	Ladies and gentlemen, there have been really a variety of incidents, disputes, even murders, in different national parliaments, but this case, which you are discussing at the moment, is really very one-sided, because I have also been stunned over my head, and it did not belong to Aldim Gobzem, but Mr Riekstin. He didn't take any condemnation. It is clear that a Member's membership of the coalition gives him the opportunity to be inducted at once. But if we are talking about Aldi Gobzem, I think that many people who are following the work of Parliament can say a great deal of thanks at this time, because they appreciate not by expression, perhaps by some kind of post, but by real works. For me personally, and also for my followers, and for all those who care about human rights, a very important litmus paper in the work of the Saeima and in the attitude of Members was Members' behaviour and decision-making during the so-called co-cooperative period. And especially clearly its attitude towards people's needs was indicated by Members' attitude towards the application made by several Members of the Saeima and lawyers to the Constitutional Court for the withdrawal of the powers of the Government, which was given by the Saeima to the Cabinet of Ministers in 2020 and which the Cabinet of Ministers continues to use with great joy and pleasure, continuing to divide people and humiliate them. Because we know that with 1 October, there will still be a need again for certificates for medical staff and also for students. None of this coalition, which now goes and promises people a heavenly man, has made sure that such powers are abolished and that people are restored to normal life. However, we took care of this already in October last year, when we prepared a huge application to the Constitutional Court, and only 20 members of the Saeima needed signatures. And what do you think? Between 20 signatures... There are only 10 honest Members who have agreed to sign this application. Unfortunately, this application was not signed by the Greens and the Farmers; it was not signed by SASKAŅA, writing a very long box on why they would not want to sign it, and also the so-called... The Republic did not sign. But Aldis Gobzems, Karina Sprūde and all the other independent Members signed this application. And it was important for people, they saw a man... they saw the attitude of Members, they see your attitude in the votes, they see the attitude of Members in the draft laws and also in the applications, and they see the proposals as well. The number of proposals and draft laws made by independent Members, including Aldis Gobzems, is a very good indicator of Members' attitude towards people's needs. You should only learn from independent Members, including Alda Gobzem, how the Saeima should work - not by receiving compensation for remote work, but by listening...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U13	Please refer to the specific draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U14	... people’s needs and letters sent to you by people asking for help. I call for this draft decision not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U15	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U16	Dear colleagues, I only have one question. Is this decision, which we are deciding today, fair from a democratic point of view? We understand that there was not only one side in this dispute, but everyone understands that there were two sides. We are addressing one party that represents the opposition directly. Well, you can do that: two weeks before the elections, opposition politicians are excluded from the political debate, from the work of the Saeima, Parliament. And, dear colleagues, all those... This will be a call to all those in the previous Saeima - not much in this parliamentary building. I call on all of us to remember our honourable colleague Artus Neighbours. As you do, honestly, it seems that Aldis Gobzem has now reached the level of intelligence that Artus Neimins had 12. Family, isn't it? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) I think that Aldis Gobzems is still far from the level shown by Artus Kaimiņš from this platform. Or sometime...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U17	Colleagues, I really asked you to talk about the specific draft decision...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U18	Or sometime...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U19	... not for Members to whom it does not relate.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U20	... and did the Saeima ever look at the question that the Member should be excluded from the work of the Saeima for having launched his mouth? Everyone's gonna do it. The way to speak to the politician and to criticise the work of the Saeima, the work of the government, can be different. As we have heard today, Mr Gobzem has mentioned that he has sometimes been sharp and has his motivation. In order to reach an audience of voters, you may need to have an eye. We can see that in some way he succeeds. And is that what he needs to turn off today? In my opinion, it does not demonstrate that the government and the Saeima are strong and indeed tended to strengthen democracy. I think it only shows that the government is not only not prepared to engage in discussions and debate, but is now reaching a new level - not even prepared to listen to the criticism of the opposition. Colleagues, I cannot support such a draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U21	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U22	Hello, colleagues! Just good or nothing for the mover.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U23	The debate has not yet been closed. Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U24	Hello, colleagues! I'm listening here, and I think we should have some clarity. I can't do that in the memory of what happened at that time. I remember Aldis Gobzems was having a debate here, and then our respected Riekstins was going to have something out of the room there. Well, so to say, in the verb the entry “Interspeaks”. It was, yeah. And then Gobzem called him one fat name. That, I think, wasn't the word 'creatine', we think here, it was one word that maybe it doesn't use. I understand that Gobzem is wrong. Where's Aldis Gobzem? He called him the wrong name, he should simply call him an idiot, because, as you know, this name has already been used in the Saeima, and the relevant commissions have also admitted that it is allowed to call each other. But what reaction did Riekstin have? He ran across the hall, waving the cubs, and promised Gobzem... What did he promise? On your mouth! Well, I already think that in this case, if we turn one off for six sittings, then Riekstin should have been excluded for six sittings as well. I'll remind you that I know this historical decision about the word "idiot"... I was at the Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy in the past, and I also called this Member, who is sitting in Conservatives there, an idiot. He's coming to me after the sitting... And what did he tell me? ‘ For this can be obtained by mouth.” I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Laughs.) So it's not the first time. I would like to remind you that we have a parliamentary secretary at the Ministry of Education and Science, who promises to everyone in the mouth! ( Milestones.) Step by mouth, promise by mouth! Gobzem, Members. Perhaps he also promises by mouth trade unions, teachers. ( Milestones.) They've taken an executioner who's just trying to get some result right now. And we're making a decision here in the Saeima, turning Gobzem off and turning off one idiot. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U25	I closed the debate. ( Milestones.) Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U26	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to support the draft decision by the Saeima on the exclusion of Member Alda Gobzem from six sittings of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U27	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the exclusion of Member Alda Gobzem from six sittings of the Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 52, it's against - 32, it's not. ( Internouncing call.) Decision adopted. On the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. The draft decision ‘On distrust to the Minister of Transport of the Republic of Lithuania to Toļi Linkait’. Mr. Valaiņš, have you been delegated to speak on behalf of the applicants? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Valainis: “Yes.” ) So on behalf of the applicants - Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U28	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Mr. High Minister. Indeed, thank you very much for coming today to look at this very important issue in our view. We have also prepared our argument why we believe that this government minister should leave office today. To start talking about this, my fellow Members will have to come back at the time when the government of Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš was approved. On the day this government was approved, I climbed into a tribunal and addressed you, honourable colleagues, with an invitation to listen to the traffic minister we are about to approve this position. And the life course of the Minister of Transport shows itself. I will also start today with the very good experience of the Minister of Transport in his previous work. Colleagues, if we remember the times of privatisation, when a number of people in Latvia privatised a number of strategic Latvian companies, the times when honored people, such as Andris Šķele, accumulated their capital... And in every way, we... Well, I think everyone can have an opinion on how privatisation took place in Latvia. It was Tālis Linkaits who took one of the key positions in this privatisation process and, I would say, from the point of view of the official, he was quite a responsible person at that time. At this point in time, I think that its links and those old contacts over the four years since the Minister's leadership of the Ministry have only shown that these contacts and the experience gained, and perhaps over time, the developed experience has gone nowhere and that the Minister still has these skills. And that's where I, honourable colleagues, will turn... One of the greatest things the Minister did is to purchase public transport under the responsibility of the Ministry of Transport. Dear colleagues, three entrepreneurs, three very well-known entrepreneurs in Latvia won this purchase. According to public media, one of the entrepreneurs was Alexander Brandav and his related businessmen, and the other businessman was Andris Skele... Shlesser. These were the entrepreneurs who won this public transport procurement, which was very widely written by the public media. The total amount of procurement, honourable colleagues, was about half a billion euros. Around half a billion euros were distributed among these few entrepreneurs. At the end of this procurement, the honourable colleagues were essentially the destruction of a number of public service providers of municipalities, such as Cesis public transport company and Valmiera public transport company. The fact that they still function today is only a matter of time if the policy is not changed. I think that the fate of these companies is insolvent at the moment, because without a public transport order their future life is unimaginable. The same applies to traditional companies operating in Zemgale. A whole range of companies, which were local governments and private co-founded, have been working well. Currently, in front of all the eyes of Latvia, these companies have just been privatised through public service procurement. Public media... “Latvijas TVija” even created various research programmes, such as “A Banned Method” in which public transport... public service... public media journalists had assessed various elements of public transport... this contract. And one of the elements with which these some entrepreneurs (in a sense completely unrelated) managed to play entirely all the other players in the market was pay. It was a salary, which incrediblely... exactly for these three entrepreneurs... was extremely low. They were ready to hire drivers for a half-life; they were ready to wash all buses from all sides and from below for the euro; they were ready to use the conditions that are today... ensure that those drivers will work... strongly above the average wage in the industry... This did not seem strange to the honourable minister, it seemed to be all right in this matter. So what did the public media do when examining this situation, analysing how it could be? And a number of local authorities pointed out this, all the time indicating that they could not provide their service at such costs. As it turned out, these drivers made money themselves, had set up a system to circumvent all possible control mechanisms. The management of the companies did nothing to control in some way that... The drivers are essentially stealing fuel, the drivers will not shed tickets. The management of these companies did nothing to influence it in any way. On this simple element... on the basis of this simple element, a number of highly respected companies were excluded which do not practice such practices in their work. Is it fair competition? Colleagues, the Minister was informed about these issues and the Road Transport Directorate was also informed. In the public space, this has been the subject of public consultation since the announcement of these procurement results. The Minister was angry with the Prime Minister, who said in an uproar voice that such contracts should not be concluded. The opposition also said that such agreements should not be concluded. The only thing that was interested in such contracts being concluded was the highly honored, highly respected, transport minister Tālis Linkaits, present at today's meeting. But maybe the opposition is wrong, so let us see what has been said by the Association of Public Transport Entrepreneurs, the Head of the Latvian Passenger Carriers Association, about this situation and what it has now turned out to be the situation. ( The drug is noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) In particular, the President of LPPA Ivo Ošenieks pointed out that the purpose of the Public Transport Services Law (i.e. to provide public transport services to citizens) is not currently ensured and that the warnings of industry representative organisations about possible problems in the sector and the call for the provision of public transport services in regional transport networks are long ignored. Of course, after public media came up with information on how the conditions of this competition were met, entrepreneurs could no longer afford to pretend not to see it. And we see the result. On 1 July of this year, more than 70 flights were not executed in one of the lotes; on 4 and 5 July, more than 50 flights were not executed; on 6 July, according to the information included in the website of the carrier Liepaja Bus Park, more than 50 flights were not executed. And since 1 July there are 280 flights that have not been completed. And that's the information that was in summer. At present, we hear every day that the conditions of this treaty are not fulfilled in Ogre, Aizkraukle and several other places. The letter from the Latvian Passenger Carrier Association also states that the absence of full service provision has affected the mobility needs of a large part of society. According to data for the same period, it affected more than 16,5 thousand people in 2021. Colleagues, this is the case... we hear about it every week. Every week! And have we heard from the Minister at least one solution to this problem, at least one decisive action? God with him! May the Minister work! But why do responsible officials continue to work? Where is someone responsible? Is the tant who sits at the Aizkraukle stop responsible for the bus? Is she responsible for the fact that the State is unable to fulfil the statutory obligations? Colleagues, do you think that's right? Is it right that a large proportion of public transport services are not provided? Colleagues, worse! In the part of the route network ‘Cesis’ and ‘Limbaži, Sigulda’, Nordeka did not start the implementation of the contract at all on 4 April. Colleagues, the contract has been concluded but is not being fulfilled! Who are those who physically travel on these routes? This is done by the municipal companies with whom the contract... It's gone. They are lost in these competitions. They are now saving (save!) State - municipal companies which continue to drive on these routes. Contracts... not even start to execute contracts. But what are the consequences? Nothing! There is no consequence of such a decision. The carriers also point out that the activities of other carriers show that there were all the conditions for an objective start-up of services from 1 July in another service area, and there was no influence of forceful externalities on the actual start-up of the contract. If he wanted to, he could. But did he? That is the question. The Association concludes that the two companies indicated misleading information by submitting tenders for the tender in question and then signing the service provision agreement. This is the general industry view of these purchases. And that's my point of view, too, from the first day that the Minister concluded these agreements. From the beginning, it was a deception for three businessmen. Three! And you can evaluate the reputation and good intentions of these companies against the state of Latvia. It's up to you. But now we see results. We can only say thank you to the public media that are at the root of this fraud. And now we see the consequences. String (chain!) the route is not provided. The Association had previously pointed out the inconsistency of the procurement rules with the real economic situation and the problems encountered during the evaluation of the tenders submitted. These problems, which are now encountered in Aizkraukle, Ogre and many other districts, Madona and Limbaži have already been identified during the procurement process. But nothing was done instead of action! These purchases were allowed to continue. What is happening in the sector has been seen years before. For years in advance, these companies were bought for their head-up amounts and were bought by private operators. Some entrepreneurs have been preparing for this procurement for years. And what was done to prevent it? Nothing. It is a peculiar privatisation before all our eyes. It was prevented, but it is still being carried out. According to the association, the Minister of Transport has seemed deaf to all of this and has tried to shift the responsibility to the Road Transport Directorate only. This is indicated by the association - industry association - but the Minister in this case, looks, even the management responsibility of the Road Transport Directorate also does not see in this whole. We see that municipal companies are currently, by nature, saving this situation. In my view, all this competition should be abolished and a new procurement should be carried out, and the basis for public transport should nevertheless be established for these local authorities. We cannot afford to risk our regional development by trusting that a businessman will want to think about his own profits... What's going on now... If you want to risk your money... What's going on now... On one day, they may think that they should not be guided. Colleagues, these are tens of thousands of our Latvians who currently do not receive this service. Ladies and gentlemen, I will allow you today to quote from this troupe, in my opinion, the very respectable politician of Ogres county mayor Egils Helmani. I have a question for the National Union: how will you vote on this issue today? And also for a NEW Unity. Ladies and gentlemen, this is your partner - the coalition - of all of you, a respected politician, the head of a large district. He has addressed the Prime Minister by calling on the Prime Minister to release the Minister of Transport. In his letter he pointed out very briefly and specifically: “The Prime Minister! I do not want to burden you with scrupulous statistics, but I will point out the record of 16 August: 38 flights were not carried out. During this period, there have been several days when the number of outstanding flights is approaching two dozen. The worst is that information about a flight is often not made public and people learn about it only from their bad experience in the form of a welcome bus. The situation is beginning to resemble third world countries, where public transport is on the course after the list "There will be when I come". I think you will agree that this situation is not acceptable in a 21st century European country." It's written by Egils Helmanis. And I will continue by saying to Mr Helmanis: "The situation in the course is that of the Ministry of Transport, the Road Transport Directorate, but for some reason reservations are sought instead of a solution, microscopic penalties are imposed, there is no sense of interest or competence in the authorities responsible. I stress that this is about two regions, about the population of two districts, which simply cannot count on the existence of public transport. It is not a great luxury, it is a need for life. Emotionalally, it becomes hard to imagine how much more important things were delayed, the event had to be experienced by our citizens - visits by doctors, works, funerals, travels, concerts. The essence of the case sounds harsh and incredible – there is no public transport in Ogres and Aizkraukle.’ Dear colleagues, It is not what I have said, but it is one of the colleagues of the National Alliance that calls on the Head of Government to release today the existing Transport Minister. I call on the National Association to follow the call of its colleagues and to join today's vote to release the Minister of Transport from office. ( Interface: “I agree! ”) ) Dear colleagues! I had the opportunity to see this situation in Vienna. Last week, I was in Vāne, and I was at a bus stop, where I talked to the locals - what about Tukums (the former Kandava district), Vāne? What about the existence of public transport? The answer to this was: "Famous Member, we have long failed to take account of the presence of public transport in Vienna." The presence of public transport in Vienna can be taken into account if the only way it is provided is once a week. You can go there to the center of development, but unfortunately only in one direction. In Vienna, people send their children to school, unfortunately 14 miles [14 km] away, despite rain or snow. That is the reality. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware that this reality has been in existence for a long time. Is the EUR 500 million budget, which was put at the disposal of the Minister of Transport, not enough to address these problems? In my opinion, EUR 500 million should be sufficient for the German people to also receive a satisfactory public transport service. Colleagues, if we are talking about Zemgale, half of the population lives outside big cities and development centres. The irresponsible nature of this minister affects half of the people living in the regions of Latvia. In my opinion, it is not normal for the Minister to be in a position to provide a self-evident case, and now, for four months since the problems started, it turns out to be unseen. One is the strong position of the Minister at the time when the competition is being prepared and the stand against the sector; the other is the Minister entering into these contracts and continues to stand against the sector; the third is the problem, and the Minister still thinks everything is fine. Ladies and gentlemen, do you also think that everything is all right in this area? When you meet the voters, you also think that everything is right in this area? I do not think so. I will not mention at any time the commitments made by the Ministry of Transport and the Saeima's vote, which will be paid for by other public transport operators, from the area of competition law. Here, too, the public transport organisation, by adopting the Public Transport Services Act, stated: if you turn to these operators, you will then have to pay compensation. No, no. At the moment, we see that entrepreneurs have wind the Court of Justice of the European Union and Latvia will still have to pay compensation to these companies, which are foreign entrepreneurs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not only public transport under the responsibility of the Minister of Transport, and that would be wrong if I spoke today only about public transport. I will also touch on other topics outside public transport today. Ladies and gentlemen, at all this difficult, challenging time, we are all talking about where to take money to provide people with sufficient support in the context of the energy crisis, where to take money, so that we can deal with the issues that are important today. And my answer is very simple: maybe we should start thinking about how we spend money, how we invest our own money. In this Chamber of Saeima, I and many of my colleagues did not support - they did not! - the allocation of several hundred million euros to the national airline airBaltic. You tell me, if we hadn't given this money to airBaltic, airBaltic would have stopped... airBaltic would end if we hadn't done it. And in a way, you can already agree with those colleagues who are looking narrowly, unable to look outside the Saeima walls and listen only to what the ministry tells them. I can understand this smoking in the Conservative Group that I say unpleasant things, but it is - it is. The allocation of EUR 250 million to airBaltic, in my view, could have been directed in other directions, much more important. If we look back today, could it be different... could have been different in another European country? It would probably not be fair if we were to criticise the Minister, the main person of airBaltic, Far Linkait, for having invested so much money in Latvia and trying to compare airBaltic with Ryanair, for example. That wouldn't be right, would you? I also agree. airBaltic must not be compared to Ryanair. airBaltic should also not be compared to Lufthansa, under any circumstances. But can we compare airBaltic with an aviation company operating in Latvia? Do we have one? Dear colleagues, yes, we have them. We have SmartLynx Airlines operating in Latvia. And it is this company - SmartLynx Airlines - that has not only managed to maintain its operations in aviation during the pandemic crisis, but also to raise both fleet volumes and staff numbers. ( Internouncing call.) This company planned to have around 60 aircraft in the summer season of this year. And you can already tell me what you want, that it's a freight company or something (interface.) , but this company is completely reorienting its activities – it is engaged in both passenger and freight transport. This company, currently located in Latvia, will become one of the leaders of Baltic aviation. This company set an example for us during the pandemic - that you can look for opportunities and find new ways to develop. This company is a company with which we can all be proud. But when I read an interview with this company's management, what did they say? The first and main thing they did during the pandemic was to halve all the administrative costs. Ladies and gentlemen, do you think that airBaltic's administration costs were reduced by even 10 percent? Is the fact that we are still paying - we are still paying! - is it normal for this highly valued airline driver to pay almost a million euros a year? This year's salary - a million euro - is now paid not from their income, but from our taxpayers' pockets, from the state budget grants. Is it normal that the management of the rest of the company (I am talking only about management) also receives around 250 thousand euros?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Almost two million euros for the functioning of the Governing Board. Is it normal that during the crisis airBaltic's strategic development plan was not changed at all? It was not changed for a gram! We continued to support the development of the aviation base in Tampere. Colleagues, we, by nature, developed the Finnish economy from the budget of our country during the Covid-19 pandemic. Part of these 250 million went to Finland for economic development. Did we review airBaltic's strategic development in one place? No, we continued to be guided by the principle: nothing has happened, we continue to live up to the plans that have been written. These plans were written at a time when there was neither a Covid-19 pandemic nor any other challenge. Ladies and gentlemen, I think these two comparisons very clearly show that there are companies in Latvia that can. If you keep companies under such a greenhouse regime... that you'll only get that you're gonna put up your eyebrows and say that we need dictates, you're going to get hundreds of millions of investments, that's normal, colleagues? What hope do we have for such developments? We can see that airBaltic too... If we were looking at the development of the airport, I think no one could imagine that the airport would lose its competitiveness in the Baltic. Our airport - with all airBaltic - lost its competitiveness in the Baltic. Lithuanian, Estonian airports went before us... with the entire airBaltic. They do not have national airlines like us, which provide connections around the world, but we have lost our competitiveness. How is it responsible? Airport staff are guilty there? Are those who use airport services guilty? Should we still seek to blame our own political leadership and our inability to make the right strategic decisions? Ladies and gentlemen, aviation is not the only sector, so I will also touch on other sectors where I think that public money is pointlessly spent in these years. And one of them is the “Latvian Railway”. In my opinion, the “Latvian Railway” has gone in the same way as a self-flow. All we hear from the “Latvian Railways” is that they reduce thousands of employees, that their employees become clients of the social budget. And financial requests are being made to us in the Saeima. Who could tell me that any of these financial requests has the smallest business strategic plan to justify this request? When looking at these issues at the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, everyone could have witnessed that the Ministry of Transport comes and says: “Listen, we need it!” Well, then we give it. How much you need -- 10... 20 million... How much do you need? We'll give you beautiful eyes. Can we, through this attitude, ensure that these companies really fight for growth, that they really are looking for some new ways of development? The honourable colleagues, on taking office, said that transit was not a priority for him. We are seeing this right now. We also see the reform of ports, we see it for any prospects for rail development. All these companies have been launched in a simple self-flow. And if it works in self-flow, then we too can be surprised that there will be no result. We have talked a lot about ports here, so I will not have much to do with it, but I will just remind you of one thing. The next Saeima will change the management model of these ports to such an extent that the municipalities have an interest in assisting the ports. At this point in time, leaving municipalities in a very small minority, on the day when it comes that they will have to ask for money, I want to see what arguments the government will achieve. There will be no arguments. The law will have to be changed and local authorities will have to give greater power over port involvement. And only in this way will we achieve progress. I agree that the Ministry of Transport will not have the necessary funding to develop these ports. At the moment, we see how port management works. For example, the new establishment that the Saeima founded, the “port of Venta”. Well, what exactly is happening there? There's just getting wages there, nothing more. Let's be honest! If we want some development perspective, then the municipalities will have to be returned. Colleagues, the same applies to road infrastructure. I think it is a lot good to do, and here I am, perhaps, criticising a little less, but yet... Transit streets - we speak year after year. Transit streets - this is, however, our economic blood circulation, and the fact that we are looking, for example, at Salacgriva on this bridge, which is now in halfway... Is this the way we demonstrate that we are interested in the development of transit streets? These are the main transit arteries. The A8 transit artery. Do you really... How long do we have to wait in Jelgava? That this road will just collapse, that it will be shut down, that all transit streets... transit vehicles through A8 will pass through Jelgava? So how do you imagine these solutions? Years - years! - the municipalities have indicated this and they have not been heard for years. What they said to the municipalities: you will immediately unite, they will make you bigger, and then they will fix you. And in Limbažu municipality they made a big municipality. Did this solve the problem of the Salacgrīva Bridge? It's a bridge standing there a halfway, and there's no solution from that municipality... There are no funds to be invested by the municipality. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we still have a lot, much to do in the area of road infrastructure development. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to add to this all the events of the last days. And which is connected to this epic around Riga and specifically around the Bickernieki track. You will agree, Conservatives, you should already know more than others, that the Saeima has passed the law of termination of forced divided property in a privatised apartment house and that the Saeima, adopting this law... During the discussions that took place in the Commission, we were not alone discussing that this issue could also be extended to other forms of residential property. And we agreed that we would be dealing with apartment houses from the beginning, because it was a difficult process. I myself led that process, I know it was a difficult process: to reach this agreement between landowners, owners of apartment houses, to find the right formula. And it was agreed that right after we passed this law, we started to work on it, so that private buildings, single-apartment houses, such as the Biķernieki track, could also be bought back for... forced for cadastral value. In this case, if we had moved and passed this law... And I think the next Saeima... It will be one of the first works that the next Saeima will do - this amendment will extend to other buildings and structures... And it could have entered into force already on 1 January, this Biķernieki land could be redeemed for the present cadastral value of 800 thousand euros. Instead, we see that, a month before the end of this term, this issue is being brought through the Saeima, through the government, and this land is being offered at an accelerated pace. Dear colleagues, It was quite a shock to the Union of Greens and Farmers. The Union of Greens/Farmers has participated in and led traffic under the leadership of Ulda Plantis, and we know of the offers offered to buy this land four years ago. Four years ago, the government of Maris Kučinsky rejected the view that it would buy this land by three million. Three million were the price that the previous government did not agree with, saying that it was not the right decision at that time to pay to these people who have obtained the land (you can themselves assess how) such an amount for the buy-back of the land. There were such issues on the political agenda. Today we see that our country has developed so far that we have so much money that we do not need to appreciate how we spend it. We are ready to buy back property for eight million. Four years ago, three million were offered, but three months later, if the legislator did, he could buy back 800,000. And 800,000, in my view, would be right in this situation, not eight million. Dear colleagues, as they speak in political culuars and as they speak in corridors, and as the press writes, perhaps this is not the case in Far Linkai, because Tālis Linkaits has been avoiding the answer for two weeks, he does not understand how this price has developed, he does not understand what document he has signed. Similarly, the Prime Minister of New Unity on the day this decision was adopted was very urgent and was unable to answer any question, including on this subject, from journalists. Everyone suddenly got very quick. In this case, as it speaks in political culuars, this is the real reason for "Development/About!" in a fraction. And is it really “development/for!” the main merit is that this question was implemented so urgently suddenly on one day with the Skulte LNG terminal? Dear colleagues, We will not find answers to this question. We in the Group of the Greens/Family Union have done what needs to be done in such cases. We turned to the Prosecutor General's Office, and the Prosecutor's Office is already carrying out research on this issue. I am pleased that we have also been heard by the Ministry of Finance and are now asking for this matter to be withdrawn from the political agenda. I think, above all, that the prosecutor's office should not end its work and that it should continue to study what exactly happened these days, because it is quite unique that the minister does not know what he has signed up to. The Minister places his signature on a document on which he can't explain anything that officials seem to have prepared. If this is the responsibility of the Minister for his work and if the Minister signs the documents in this way, then it is only left to ask the question - what else has this Minister signed with such an attitude? Dear colleagues, I call on all of you today to carry out an objective evaluation of the work of this minister. The argument that there is only one month left to work by this government, in my view, is not an argument. You, in honor of “Developing!” With the following reasoning, which I read in the public space... Development/About! You will only get this argument that for two more months people in Aizkraukle, Vienna, Tukums and elsewhere will not have access to high-quality public transport. You will only achieve that, for the next two months, the public transport sector will be run in the same irresponsible manner as it is today. In a way, I allow the honourable minister to try to do everything in his best conscience. But I hope that today the Minister will be able to answer those questions why he has come together as he has. Why is it that the purchase of public transport half a billion has gone to three businessmen. The fact that someone else in the middle has wind is that they're people. Most of them have gone to three entrepreneurs. Perhaps the Minister will come today and from this troupe will answer why he is so hard against the Treaty being revised. Perhaps the Minister will dispel the concerns about this eight million euro deal. Perhaps the Minister will dispel concerns about why our taxpayers' money is still being spent on millions... millions are spent only to repay the remuneration of the board of a single capital company. This crisis concerns all of us. Perhaps the Minister will come and respond personally as well, or he believes that, as of 1 January, a wage supplement of two thousand euros is adequate for him as a minister for the work he has done. Dear colleagues, everyone, as well as the National Union! I call on the National Union - especially to listen to what I am talking about today. This is one of your leaders calling for this minister to be removed from office. It will benefit the entire district. This will benefit not only the district of Ogre, but many other regions. And I can only join in what Mr. Helmanis said. I also spoke to local government leaders - irrespective of political affiliation. I spoke to the Heads of Government of the New Unity in Valmiera, Cesis. They also agree that this minister does not deserve to continue. It is only a matter of linking these groups and why they do not do what your own members, your own colleagues, respectful colleagues in regions that I also respect, respect their work (Dep. (M. Bondar’s intermediate call.) ... and what is now the thing that connects all of these together. I think that it would only be good for the whole country if we replace a minister who is not working well. Have there been such examples? Yeah, it was. We replaced one minister for failing to fulfil his duties. There have been changes in this government by several ministers. In my opinion, this issue is just as important in nature. This ensures the development of all our regions. To decide today on the resignation of this minister. I very much hope that the Minister will be able to respond to the criticisms I have expressed - as I have already mentioned, not only my criticisms, but also those of industry, associations and other industry leaders - and will try to disprove what I have said today and take part in this debate, and I will be very happy to engage in the further debate and will try to justify our argument. Ladies and gentlemen, if you do not do this today, it will be done by the voters in two weeks' time. I call for action today!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U29	The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U30	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I believe that the Minister of Transport, Tālis Linkaits, has not been able to deliver a positive result in any of the activities, so the situation in the sector is very critical and even shouting. I believe that this minister does not qualify for office as from the very first day of his term of office. It is not a normal situation that the objective of the Public Transport Services Act - to provide public transport services to citizens was not ensured for a long time. The warnings of potential problems in the sector by industry organisations and calls for the provision of public transport services on regional networks are also being ignored for a long time. And this is not just about individual flights that have failed, for example because of an accident or other unforeseen circumstances, but about dozens of flights every day in summer. The worst is that the information about the failure of a flight was often not made public and people could really only learn about it from their bad experience - to wait for free for the bus. In fact, in my view, bus traffic in the regions has gone on its own. Nothing like this has happened to the industry. And it is the Minister of Transport, Far Linkait, who has the primary responsibility for all the misunderstandings that have occurred in recent years in the passenger transport sector of bus and coach transport. I believe that, in this situation, priority is given to passenger rights and citizens' access to safe, high-quality and reliable public transport. But today, of course, it is not only about buses, bus and coach transport, but also about, for example, rail transport, the situation of “Latvian railways”. Hundreds of redundant workers! The Minister promised that this would not be the case as long as 2019 from the Saeima Tribunal, in response to my questions, but these people were dismissed in 2019, 2020 and last year in 2021. And these measures have nothing to do with hostilities in Ukraine. That is why I am unable to see what the Minister is doing, and I think that this is what the Minister is doing and how it is doing must be stopped. He must be removed from office, and the sooner, the better. I do not admire the next transport minister, who will have to deal with public transport, rail infrastructure, airBaltic, the failure of port reform and other problems. I call on the Minister of Transport to express his distrust for Far Linkait. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U31	The name to Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U32	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Sir, In my opinion, listening to Mr Valaiņa's argument, this request - to cancel the Minister - is actually wrong from the point of view that it is addressed to the wrong minister. It should have been addressed to the Minister for Finance, Janis Reirs, and I will explain why. If the Minister goes to the government and calls for funds to be allocated to his industry, and the Minister of Finance, with the head of the government, is prepared to grant them and then to borrow additional money on international markets, then I think he has acted in the interests of his industry. Our Prime Minister has fired the Minister for Economic Affairs for being too lobbying his industry in the past. It is a total absurdity, and I think that the head of government - the outgoing, thank you to the god - is, of course, responsible for drawing up the agenda of the Cabinet of Ministers in this case. If the Minister representing his industry goes to the Cabinet of Ministers with a request for funds and the Ministry of Finance has harmonised it, then the Ministry of Finance has apparently assessed whether such funds need to be invested in airBaltic: for example, has airBaltic shown profits some time or whether these funds will ever give a return. Of course, there is also a multiplier effect in terms of the contributions that the airline is able to make, but there is always a fundamental question: do we want to develop a private business (and we are talking about airBaltic as a capital company in this case) or do we want to invest more and more in the airport, which is the object of infrastructure? I think that we have already talked a lot about energy and various other topics here, and in fact we are always in front of this dilemma. The question of whether investments are more likely to be made in infrastructure or companies has been topical. And, unfortunately, within this government, its inclination has been good for companies, not for infrastructure. Has the Minister worked well, and has everything been smooth? No, no. But does the Minister always have a smooth path, especially in the case of any reforms, or at least they are planned and launched? Yes, there will always be a problem, yes, decisions will have to be changed, but at least decisions will have to be made. Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry to investigate the misbehaviour of the Latvian Government in the process of managing the Covid-19 pandemic, as well as to name the names of the political officials who caused irreversibly negative consequences for Latvia during the time we could all see how indecision by the Prime Minister was, he was unable to make timely decisions, and the experts left the model of government cooperation. Therefore, if decisions are at least driven, taken and then perhaps even corrective, it is, in my opinion, a better way than... business organisations that are constantly talking about the failure of cooperation with the Prime Minister (and especially the Minister of Finance, who has been evaluated). Here, too, was demonized by the circle of those who won the purchase, but I would remind you of one such detail. Of course, we could like or dislike several persons, and that is your own opinion, but there is no court judgment, which has been made in one case or another and thus proved the person's direct guilt, recognised by a judicial document. I therefore believe that this argument does not really stand criticism. If we are again talking about the Minister of Finance and, in this case, the Minister of Transport, then, yes, the Minister of Transport has asked for increased funds for airBaltic. I believe that perhaps this would not be the right direction, but we will be discussing it yet and again... but then declare that we will borrow, that's nothing, let's give them, let's give them, let's give us airBaltic and then borrow on the international market, knowing that the European Central Bank has increased the standard rate to 0.75... Colleagues, there's no cheap money anymore, there's only expensive money left. We have talked here for a long time that the public debt service interest, or in fact the payment that has to be made for debt service, and the interest payment is increasing and will increase. Thus, with a light hand to borrow more money - this is the style of the New Unity, which has happened over a long period of years. It is not the transport minister who comes and talks about the representation of his industry, but the finance minister who gives the money, and the Prime Minister who puts this issue down (the head of the sitting knocks down with a hammer.) put them in the order of business. The agenda of the Cabinet of Ministers shall be determined by the Prime Minister. So here we have called the wrong person to blame. Of course, there are a lot of different topics that we could talk about. Mr Valaiņš has already mentioned the very topical issue of possible cases of corruption in the context of the Biķernieki track. I think that we should talk about this here in the context of the law enforcement institutions, not so much about the responsibility of the Minister, because this decision has been within the framework of the Cabinet of Ministers. So all those who have decided in favour are also responsible for the rule of law. But I am not going to criticise this right now because I do not have any additional information. So, colleagues, I am calling for an assessment, of course, of the whole set of these circumstances and, in particular, for the fact that in many of the many sectors there are problems which should be addressed and which have not been addressed because the head of government has not been able to make rapid decisions in this case. We will consider this further. Above all, this will be assessed by the voter, as we are approaching the elections. The argument was raised as to whether now - shortly before the elections - it would be the right time to dismiss the Minister. Colleagues, you have just thrown one Member out of your circle, so that, whether it is right or wrong, you will also make your own decision. So that in fact, my fellow Members, I am calling indeed on this issue to look at the complexes and to evaluate the work of the government as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U33	Mr Feldman, you have enough time for the debate to break - five minutes? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. ( K. Feldman's intermediate call.) So we will continue the debate after the break. It is also time for the statement. Dear colleagues, on 10 September our half-round anniversary was celebrated by our fellow Member Edmunds Teirumnieks, and we congratulate him. (Applause) Thank you. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name For Inese Voika to read the registration results.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U34	Not registered: Arvils Asheradens, Boriss Cilevičs, Aldis Gobzems, Janīna Jalinska, Ieva Krapāne, Edgars Kucins, Evija Papule, Sandis Riekstins, Jānis Urbanovičs, Jānis Vitenbergs and Gatis Zamurs ; “ Edgars Jaunups! Edgars Jaunups is!” )... Evia Papule is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U35	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U36	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to discuss the agenda of the Saeima sitting after a break. On the agenda - draft decision “On distrust to the Minister of Transport of the Republic of Lithuania Fari Linkaitis”. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U37	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I am not surprised, to be honest, by why the Lemberg Party is proposing the Far Linkait Demission. There is no surprise for me at all, and this is due to the fact that the Ministry of Transport, in my opinion, for the first time (this is my personal opinion) - for the first time, the first term in the history of Latvia - was not, at least since the restoration of independence, a table of orders. Of course, the Lemberg party has a shock: "What could we still do with such a bad thing? Well, of course, we could demand a good-working minister's resignation two weeks before the elections." Scotch, it's done! But when it comes to the matter, I can't... There's a saying in the Saeima: I didn't want to speak today, but I did. This is exactly the case. I didn't want to talk, but when Victor Valainis started talking, I... I wrote a number of pages with, let's say, false messages that have to be disproved. One thing is that. Let us talk, for example, about passenger transport in Latvia. Does anyone know why there are only a few large carriers of passengers in Latvia and there is no one among them, for example, a normal foreign capital company or any company whose management or board does not have any oligarch, or the owners do not have any oligarch or former KGB colonel or any Harmony schemer? Why is that so? I think it's a suspicion... the fact that for 30 years these companies had been fed with various subsidies and developed their infrastructure. That when there is a real fair competition, there is no one to take part, either at such national level. Maybe in a municipality... one municipal company is still trying something, but in reality, at the level of the whole country, their infrastructure, their bus fleet, the number of employees has been developed by those who have been feeding for 30 years. And they, apologies, were closer to the old power. And the most funny thing is that those who do not make those trips in specific municipalities (this is what these major scandals are about) are currently, by nature, candidates for next Saeima elections and tell us how they will lead the country and grow gross domestic product. They cannot even recruit employees in their company in sufficient numbers, but they say, “We will lead the country.” I think that Latvian society has become smarter over these years so that it does not get caught up in these empty promises from people who are unable to run one medium-sized company normally. Another thing that has not been mentioned and that I am not surprised about. Why is the ZZS calling for the Linkite Demission? When the ZZS was in power, no one could buy those new trains, so no one could, for 10 years, tried. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. U. Plant: ‘... everything was already arranged... “ It was, of course, Mr. Planty. And now, buy it. So how does that come? Why is that? ( Internouncing call.) Then for 10 years he couldn't, and now he buys. I think there's a reason to ask for a mission because... things have not happened to old customs, old habits according to old habits. It was also mentioned that airBaltic has lost Riga's aviation competition vis-à-vis our neighbours. I have bad news for you: airBaltic - this is the only reason why we are still in competition with neighbouring airports - Tallinn and Vilnius. We lost competition because of the objective weakness of crisis management, and the unjustified combined restrictions were adopted. The result was that Latvia was stopped (The Intersarists.) aviation. But it's true. And Fare Linkaith remained in minority... Of course, when he fought for aviation... and, in the meantime, Vilnius Airport, which was a village airport essentially, some village airport, suddenly begins to compete with Riga Airport. Is that not the case? Look at the statistics. It's absolutely absolutely absolutely the facts. Of course, Victor Valainis thinks he would... his ability to manage airBaltic is appropriate. I have no doubt about that. For example, I am... Even though I'm... I am confident that I am fine - I know that I do not objectively qualify for the position of Head of airBaltic, even though I have managed much more in my life than Viktors Valainis. I have always been in favour of a small, efficient and well-paid public administration. ( Internouncing call.) We cannot afford in Latvia - we cannot afford in Latvia! - We have a huge, small-scale public administration to work effectively. We must strive to raise added value in the economy, we must try to break down the average income trap (by the way, Estonia and Lithuania do well). And there must be a consensus between all politicians, and society too must agree that, yes, we want it. It is often said that the money was invested in airBaltic. Yes, that money was lent, but you know very well - and the manipulators hide that fact! - that it must be returned within five to seven years. This, by the way, is the reason why airBaltic has changed its business model; because they are working to get each euro back to the Treasury. Why aren't you talking about this? And that is why I also support unpopular decisions so that every euro invested - in coordination with the European Commission - returns to the Treasury. And it's going to happen because the money's been lent, not given. Why aren't you talking about this? I call for this to be discussed. I call on us to support such unpopular decisions so that the State Treasury receives all the money back, while at the same time maintaining our competitiveness at the Baltic level in the aviation sector. Another Victor Valainis... I don’t know what data were based on, criticised that “Latvian Railways”... Oh, no, it was Mr. Ageshin. He said that “Latvian Railways” is releasing employees that they live on social contributions... I do not know if these gentlemen have looked at the current statistics. I can tell you that there is currently the lowest unemployment rate in the Republic of Latvia, calculated as if not from 2019 (Interior call.) , but almost... compared to 2008. Currently, according to the State Employment Agency - 5.8 per cent on August 31. ( Internouncing call.) It's such an unemployment... low levels considered to be unhealthy to the economy. This means that there is a shortage of workers in all sectors; there is virtually no one who works... no sector. ( Internouncing call.) And that is why railway workers are recruited with open hands in the private sector, where they work, build, raise added value and stimulate our country's economic growth (not live on social benefits!) because many of them have very good education - unlike those in the Saeima who think they are sitting on unemployment benefits. And based on all this, I... I understand that it is beneficial to do a lot of different manipulations before the parliamentary elections - not to base your rhetoric on facts, to hide something, to make unfounded accusations - but in this case... This will now be the reason when... There is absolutely no basis for the request from the Commission, and therefore, although the opposition - the Lemberg Party - has submitted this request, all national thinkers must vote 'no'. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U38	The name of the Minister of Transport of the Republic of Lithuania,
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U39	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Thank you to Victor Valain and the co-signatories for having the opportunity to be with you today and to inform you about what has been done in the field of traffic and what can be done better. And also, listening to my colleagues, I felt guilty of representing the interests of the Ministry of Transport and of defending the interests of the traffic sector in the government, asking for additional funding, receiving it from colleagues and travelling and lying down for the needs and interests of the traffic sector... I have heard that there is no criticism that, in recent years, we have managed to sort out more than 3000 kilometres of roads on the road, and to introduce a system approach to road planning, both for key roads... I very much hope that the next government will also support the construction of the bypass of Riga and the transformation of other major roads into high-speed roads. As regards regional roads, we have done a great deal together with the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development and with other colleagues who have put their hand on us so that we also have specific funding to support the administrative territorial reform programme... directly to organise regional, local roads. And I think when you travel in Latvia, you have noticed that the roads are arranged and maintained. We have been opening up the road maintenance sector. There was a very wide-ranging discussion at the time, there was a talk about what sort of collapse was going on... It has not yet entered, and I hope it will not, either. Opening up the road maintenance market has enabled us to reduce costs and shift the corresponding savings towards road reconstruction. This is the first government to have started the methodological design, planning... And the first works to build... On public transport. Colleagues, public transport is vitally important to us, and in the public transport system of Latvia, rail - as the backbone of public transport; this is something we have constantly emphasised from the very beginning, and it has also been the aim of this government - to strengthen our public transport system by means of new electric trains and to build our public transport system directly on passenger trains. Where there is no electrified zone, we are... already at the existing rolling stock... after finding out additional flights - Madona, Gulbene, Kraslava, Indra... I know that voters appreciate it. And I recently met Mr Skride on a train from Madona to Gulbani, so I see you also take advantage of these benefits in your daily journey by train. Trains have improved platforms, a unified ticketing system, integrated urban and public transport. And, as some of us amused here, it is also very important for us to enable the Riga Bolderaja line. And the first works to be started this year with the construction of the platform mean that trains on the Bolderāja-Sigulda line and modern battery trains from 2026. In this context, we also need to look at the system of the regional bus market and the fact that - purely logical and successively - the regional bus competition, which was already launched in the days of my colleague Planty, fell into this government... to prepare these principles. What is my contribution and about which you can also criticise me - about the introduction of commercial transport in this system, about the introduction of free bus transport in this system, about the establishment of strict rules and more lots in this procurement. I believe that new buses, young buses, are very important not only in cities and in the vicinity of cities, but also for the rural population, because this transport service must be of the same quality both in the countryside and in the city. They're going to lot... where purchases have taken place, where hauliers have started their work, there is also tangible progress and there is a positive reaction from people. Same Daugavpils, Kraslava, Indra... We have electric buses that are now running from Livani to Preili. We have more quality buses - Bauska, Pierīga. The people of the Rozai remember that there were such rabid Galles busi who traveled to the Rozai. Now there are new, modern buses. There is a cash system; people can buy a ticket via a payment card and will soon be able to buy a single bus and train ticket via the Internet. In Aizkraukle and Ogre this offer is also of higher quality than it has been in the past. Newer buses... with all the above requirements. In procurement... in general, there are also financial benefits. Yes, the total amount, if we count for all 10 years, is about 500 million, but that financial result, of course, must be clarified by the last lots of purchases that just have... where the winners have been declared, but around 85 million we will be iconomised over these 10 years compared to the previous period. Whether it is much or little, or it needs to be saved - that is, colleagues, your decision. At the same time, we have tried to improve quality not only in state-owned public transport companies and systems, but also in municipalities. I am very pleased with new trams, new buses in the big cities - Daugavpils, Liepaja, Valmiera, Jēkabpils. They are CNG buses in Jēkabpils and Daugavpils. We know what "traditionals" are in individual carriers of companies among drivers. And with this CNG... Many carriers say: here, it's a... The driver can no longer take anything to the house, because it's... There can't do anything anymore. There were accusations about our support for all our aviation companies – not only airBaltic, but also Riga Airport, the State Joint Stock Company Latvian Air Traffic – during the Covid, the pandemic. We allocated funds to “Latvian Railways”. We have taken care of our entire industry and I think that this is something that we must be proud of, and not shame the Minister. Are these investments adequate, proportionate? This is about airBaltic. airBaltic is our national pride. Our fleet is one of the newest, if not the youngest in the European Union. What the company's management has done during the pandemic by releasing and re-appointing employees, restructuring the farm, abandoning all the excess, and therefore different types of aircraft - has reduced our cost base, increased airBaltic's competitiveness in the region. And, in my opinion, the fact that airBaltic chooses Lufthansa, SAS, as a service provider... Negotiations have just taken place with Swiss Air for the winter flight season, where several aircraft and crew will work in Swiss Air Product and the quality of Swiss Air. In my opinion, this demonstrates the quality and competitiveness of our airline and the absence of our name in the world. There was also talk about “Latvian Railways” and it was accused that “Latvian Railways” was financed. It's our commitment... It should be remembered that the “Latvian Railways” is the foundation of our infrastructure. Without it, no cargo comes from the west or from the east. At the moment, when there is war in Ukraine, we help our Polish colleagues, and by rail from Riga and Liepaja port to Poland, coal is transported through Belarus in large quantities. And we are talking about long-term cooperation. Thus, I believe that the “Latvian Railways” and the employees working there deserve funding and adequate pay. Now on the particular accusation. I acknowledge that the Ogres and Aizkraukle lote in July and early August had problems with the provision of services, with the transition from one service provider to another. Both the Ministry and the Road Transport Directorate were actively involved in resolving the problem and normalising the situation. And, as Mr Feldman said here, it is amazing that we have people who can set up parties but who cannot bring their own businesses together to the end. But we... Well, at least I'm from the ministry... for each member in the field of transport, look at them equally. In a legal state, 'one law - one justice for all', no matter which political party is or in what political direction the owners, employees or recipients of services of one or other company are thinking. And we... there are both penalties and educational measures. Of course, it is not pleasant if people in one or other rural area stay on the street, stay on the road late in the evening, and that cannot happen. We work to make our service predictable and reliable. And we've been so far away that Ogres and Aizkraukle regions no longer have this situation, the situation is normalized. Our goal, of course, is to achieve one hundred percent of both regularity and punctuality, but our problems are for each carrier, not only for the particular “Liepės bus park”. For example, today there are no several Valmiera transport companies... Flights. In general, however, if you compare the transport system based on statistics, our Latvian transport system is one of the most punctual in the European Union, and it must continue to do so. I also call on colleagues in this pre-election period, in this time of political rhetoric, to encourage people to use public transport and not to create the impression that public transport cannot be relied upon. If we look at, for example, the month of September in Ogres and Aizkraukle, the number of delayed and outstanding flights is 0.5 percent, throughout the country (also in the previous year) - 0.4 percent. We are at the same statistical level. Because of the lack of time, I will not be able to finish this speech, but one thing I want to say about Van. I invite Mr. Valaiņa to look at “1188 traffic” - if I am not mistaken, there are 26 or 28 flights per week from Vāne, including to Kandava, to Tukums. It needs to be seen, specified, is not that the people of Vāne have been left out in complete doubt (Interface: “One way!” )... Two-way as well. On the Bickernieki (lastly, what I want to say) it is important, however, that the Bickernieki National Sports Base is exempt from private-owner terrorism, from what has been there for many years. I understand that it is easier to postpone matters, not to take them, but I think that once, it is necessary to do so, the decision is made and the situation is clear. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U40	Thank you to the Minister for Transport. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U41	The “Sovereign Power” party has not signed a request for the departure of the Minister of Transport, but we join and support this request because of the following arguments: firstly, under the leadership of the Minister of Transport, the work of the Ministry has become chaotic and incompetent. Inside... Political corruption is spreading in the ministries' corridors and the grey cardinal influence of this political force. Next moment. It was during this Minister's lifetime that the Ministry of Transport - already in 2020 - tried to transfer to major builders one of the most profitable and socially responsible companies, which is under the supervision of the Ministry of Transport - "Latvian Road Administration". The attempt was made, and the Saeima literally at the last minute swung the stop for this shameless representation of the construction cartel lobby in the Saeima, which was provided by this minister. The next step, taken by the Ministry of Transport and this political force, was that they gave back to the privatisation of four companies belonging to the Road Safety Directorate, and soon the companies that provided income, labour and taxes in the country and worked for the benefit of all citizens are being handed over to private entities. And, of course, the last case of the transfer of eight million euros from the Biķernieki track to the millionaires is the most shameless and bright example of political corruption that is taking place in front of the voters. That is why we are in favour of the resignation of the Minister for Transport and we believe that no other political power in this ministry has spread as much political corruption as it is now.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U42	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U43	Dear President, Honourable Members! I would not have spoken if the Minister had not said that airBaltic was our national pride. I will, of course, call for the support of the Minister, and I think that he is also not responsible for many things, but (interim.) However... No, support your stay. However, a few words. I think of airBaltic, where our mistake is. Mr. Valains was wrong here, with 250 million. I can say that there are 340 million spent, and if there are still all kinds of indirect costs from the start, then there would be about 600 million. And the question is not about airBaltic, the question is: why does the country need a failed business in a climate of very good competition in the world? Latvia has a very sad experience, and there is no need to blame the Minister, but to blame ourselves. I would remind you that, in due course, the Saeima voted in favour of guarantees, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission... for the alcoholic wound “Jauntag” (or what it was called)... There were about 25 million. After that, of course, all this was stolen, the owners shot each other there, and the company went bankrupt. What's that? The next attempt was “Liepājas metalurgs”, where there were already 70 million. Zaharjin bought several million villas in Liepaja, designed by Swedish architect Sonck, or not. The money was stolen, the company went bankrupt. Oh, yeah, yeah. Well, it didn't work. Now turn to airBaltic, 340 million. In the budget and financial (tax) commission, we have always asked a question and each time Mr Gauss replied that the money will be returned and the company will be privatised next year. In fact, more than 90 per cent of the shares belong to the state, and this is a state-owned enterprise: it could be if it cared for the welfare of Latvian citizens. But it's an interesting thing. A few weeks ago I had to fly to Germany. I was very happy because I have always liked the very beautiful aircraft produced by Bombardier (now called Airbus) - economic, quiet. On one side I was flying on an economic plane, and then I had such a little bend, and I felt comfortable... couldn't understand - screws grab, the color is peeled, some smell, the seats are all... cannot understand whether alcohol has gone or something else. Then I read in the newspaper that, it turns out, these are Iberia or Eurowings, or some Romanian twenty-five-seven-seven-year grout. What do you mean? We gave you that money, we bought new planes! It turns out, Mr. Gauss, who has a salary of about a million a year, 15 best planes have rented out to foreign companies. I wouldn't actually blame him. If the company is in front of bankruptcy, then its money must somehow be returned, there is in no way a guilty transport minister, because its epic has already begun in previous ministerial times before she. It's logical that you take old barbecues almost for free and rent your good planes to foreign companies. Normal business to pull ends. But then the question is: why should Latvian taxpayers pay 340 million of their pocket? What can be explained? I understand one thing: if the state has a monopoly or has something like there are no others, for example, we have unique forests, we have Daugava, maybe the joint stock company Latvenergo, the joint stock company “Latvian State Forests”, but I think that is enough. However, the Incukalns gas storage, which is a unique property of Europe at all, is not why the European Commission has forced us to privatise it, where a whole line of grocery from all over the world that does not need gas is now bought and sold, and no one knows who owns it (Interest.) ... Incukalns leased is a variety of speculative market organisations that never happened before, and this free market speculation has been adopted by the European Commission... as a result. So we obviously shouldn't have done that. We will pay hard for this. I would like to say that the country does not have to do business and we do not have to finance in any way. It would, in fact, be normal if this company had already gone bankrupt - after some hundred million, which it could not return. And we would not have these problems because the world is full and Europe is also full of various competing airlines that would be happy (as we have Ryanair here) to provide us with these flights and jobs for Riga Airport. This is extremely wrong. It seems to me that another unpleasant thing is that more than a thousand people were laid out of their places. Of course, we were once again explained that, here in the world, it is practice to sell more seats than there is on the plane in the hope that they will not come, but they, the fuckers, take and come because the community is over, and two passengers don't want to sit in one seat, so you will always be offered to fly the next day or something else. Of course, this can be done by a private airline, but the question is, why should it be done for taxpayers' money, 340 million? The biggest couching is that the contracts when these planes are rented... There's obviously... I got that contract... of course, they are confidential, but obviously there are penalties if something happens to the leased aircraft. And then again there's wonders -- you buy a ticket, you want to fly to Stockholm, you're sitting, everybody's got stuff, but the plane doesn't fly... not rising for five minutes, 10 minutes, at the end of the plane’s captain comes and says, “Everyone get out, we won’t fly anywhere!” Because, you see, that's the plane that has to be sent to the country that... or to the airline to which the airBaltic aircraft has been leased. This is something that has happened. The contract therefore guarantees that these arrangements should be implemented. I think these pigs should be stopped. It should be noted that the Latvian State does not have to give private businessmen any guarantees as to whether he receives one million or whether he receives 10 million. We already have an example with Latvenergo, where in every way we try to push guarantees for 10 years to sell us something at a more expensive price. Let entrepreneurs make for their money in competitive conditions. And this does not apply only to the Ministry of Transport. There are discussions now also about other ministries. Do we, for example, have to produce a jeep that is far more expensive than the one produced by the Canadian company Bombardier, or something else? All of this must, of course, be analysed. But I say once again that we have voted for it ourselves, we have created this feed ourselves for a variety of private leaders, which earns millions or more of a year, and we do not need old cloaks rented from Romania... or Iberia, or something else. The people of Latvia and the citizens of Latvia, as it is written in our Constitution, deserve something better about their money. Thank you. I call on you not to support the request and leave the Minister, because he is not guilty of it. Thank you. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. (M. Bondar’s intermediate call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U44	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U45	I thank the Minister for taking up this troop and defending his position, but there are things that I would like to stress to the Minister, which have not been fully answered. Firstly, I regret that I did not expect such a disclosure of the Conservative Party today - that you called your Minister a weak minister. I had waited for someone else's attitude, but that your party called him a weak minister I had not waited for. But, colleagues, the question that you said is strange is that you are being accused, for example, of the “Latvian Railway”. You are not wasted on the fact that you asked for this investment. We criticise the fact that these investments were made without any strategy, just as they were given. And that is something that we in the Commission on Budgets and Finance (Tax) have not only criticised us, but also by the Ministry of Finance, it has been criticised by the supervisors of fiscal discipline - that tens of millions of euros are being required without any strategy, simply - give us that money! It's not normal! This shows that this company is being run simply in the outskirts. The question of airBaltic was also a specific question. Colleagues, why do we need to support the Finnish economy, the base in Tampere? Why do we need to keep two million for management, two million for remuneration per year? Is this normal in today’s situation? Do you think it's okay? The question of statistics. You can think of statistics, but at the end of the day we can see the reality of the situation in Aizkraukle and Ogre. I will not study what statistics are, as has been, but the fact is that these flights are not being carried out at the moment. Mr Feldman has shown that he is absolutely not looking at what is happening in the sector. The industry has foreign companies - Tukums auto... Bauska's car. They belong to foreign investors, they are no longer Latvian companies, they are regionally based companies, for which, looking at how their activities are organised, there are no questions. The question is why you persevered and did not change anything in these procurement procedures when it was pointed out by the whole sector, when, after these contracts have been concluded, everyone sees that they are not being carried out, that it has been a fraud at the very root. The root was already defiled. You praised Jekabpils, but in fact Jacob's winning lote service is performed by Bauska bus park, because those who won lote were not able to perform this service at all. The buses of Bauska go there, because they don't have anything to do anymore in Bauska. There are some other vinaries in the Bauska that provide their service there. I'm sorry, there's a question: how does this happen? We need to be familiar with what is happening in the sector. Talk to the organisations that represent this sector, they will tell you all of this. It's okay that they're asking for your resignation, anyway, go back to the negotiating table with them. That is what we have to do. And the most important thing, in my opinion, in all of your speech... on which I believe that this demand for flight must be supported, however, - the honourable Minister from this troupe said very simply about the eight million transactions: honourable colleagues, for years terrorists have terrorised the Bikernieki track, so now this issue should finally be resolved. The Minister called them terrorists, but I would like to ask the Minister: are terrorists treated in a way that costs them eight million? Is that the way to talk to terrorists when they pay eight million? Do you think that is right for yourself? ( Milestones.) These terrorists, as I said, could also have coped with 800,000. If this question falls on the agenda of the Saeima, the Saeima would in no way be invited to support such a draft decision. It is not a proper question for something to be supported today. The terrorists are fighting in the way the terrorists are fighting, not giving them eight million. If the Conservative Party, I do not know who else I am in favour of this Chamber, is going to bring this issue to the end... I very much hope that voters will follow this closely and make their choice in the Saeima elections - if not today, then in the Saeima elections. And those ministers who can't take on...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U46	Colleagues, this is not a pre-election platform.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U47	... such ministers will not continue their work.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U48	Please do not use the Saeima Tribunal for the pre-election debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U49	Ladies and gentlemen, the parliamentary elections will show whether this minister has been worthy of office.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U50	Colleagues, can we agree that we do not use this parliamentary tribunal to pre-election for rhetoric, including the Saeima elections! Voters will make their choice. Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U51	I'm a little bit of what I heard from the trunk today, and I'm in between. Oh, my... This week, I have heard a nice programme of Latvian Radio (I hadn't heard before) about such movements as incapacity. Incredible growth is a social, political and economic movement which criticises economic growth as a social objective and calls for a reduction in production and consumption by developed countries. Movement is based on the developed ideas of the ecological economy, which are of the opinion that endless economic growth on a planet with limited natural resources is not possible. Listening to the debate - Mr Kiršteina, Mr Valaiņš - I understand that they have taken over... this new political movement “increase” because I well remember that in the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission Mr Kirstein called for the “Latvian Railway” to be abolished, now he calls for the elimination of airBaltic, and Mr Valaiņš says that the Biķernieki track would be... return these oligarchs. I see these calls... directly with infertility, because it is clear that by doing this we will live here in green nature in one pastime. This corresponds to a very national value where we would respect our 100-year-old traditions. If we look at what has been achieved and what is happening in the transport sector, we can see that despite a pandemic in recent years and many passenger transport companies have lost their customers (and not easy to recover), the current situation is that at least the number of ‘passenger train’ passengers is higher than in 2019. We see that by actively discussing and developing plans, investing in the development and promotion of cycling infrastructure, micro-mobility - cycling and footage - is becoming more frequent and more demanding of the population. People's habits are changing. It may be slow, gradually, but it is happening. And it wouldn't be possible if it wasn't, as the Minister said, all these works were done... These four years have been completed. Therefore, I call on you, however, to stick to what the Minister of Transport is doing, to go to growth rather than growth, and I call for you to reject the proposal for a ministerial resignation.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U52	Name to Member Vital Orlov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U53	Thank you, Presidium. Dear Members, I will support the resignation of Mr. Linkaita, the Minister of Transport, for two reasons. The first - I was born in Krustpils, a city where from the time of the first republic there is a large railway hub, and hearing that the Latvian Railway from the profit-making institution last year has become a donor - it shows how the Minister of Transport is working as a manager. And the other is, of course, how it was redeemed... Whether it was planned to buy from owners a biķernieki sports base track and land. When the Minister of Transport makes proposals to take over the land for airBaltic by law, it is normal, but when it comes to millionaires, it costs twice as much as it was intended... or wait for a decision by which the Saeima... will be able, like airBaltic, to take over the land... This is something we cannot expect. For these two reasons, I am calling for support for the departure of the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U54	The name of Member Linda Medne.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U55	Hello, Speaker of the Saeima! Dear Minister, Colleagues! Only dry statistics. Just before, we received statistics on the study on passenger satisfaction carried out by SKDS between May and July. The study was carried out in six regions with a total of more than 2415 passengers. In addition to the other issues examined, an important emphasis was placed on issues relating to passenger satisfaction. So a little statistics. In general, 90 per cent of passengers are satisfied and rather satisfied with services in Madona, in Bauska - 89 per cent, in Augšdaugava - 83 per cent. Purity and comfort: In the Bauska satisfied and rather satisfied - 98 percent, dissatisfied - only one percent, completely dissatisfied at all, in Madona 99 percent are satisfied and rather satisfied. The attitude of drivers towards passengers: in Upper Daugsdaugava - 97 percent of passengers are satisfied and rather satisfied, in Bauska - 97 percent, in Adžiai - 93 percent. The accuracy of bus arrivals as satisfactory and very satisfactory is indicated by 98 percent of passengers, in Kuldīga - 96 percent, in Adži - 85 percent, in Madona - 96 percent. 90 percent of passengers are satisfied about the availability of free seats in almost all regions. When assessing the age and appearance of buses, it is pointed out that 97 percent of passengers are satisfied and very satisfied, in Madona - 91 percent, in Bauska - 95 percent. The same is true for air temperature, distance between seats, comfort, the Internet, lighting and other indicators on buses. And the last question - about the experience that the bus did not come: 86 percent of passengers in the skin say that there is no such experience, 13 percent - that the bus did not come once, and only one percent - that more than... In southern Kurzeme - 85 percent of passengers have no such experience, in Madona - 93 percent, in Kuldiga - 95 percent. In a few days you will also be able to get acquainted with these indicators in the press. Therefore, I would like to say that the triple used by Mr Valaiņa and Co is not to promote prosperity in Latvia, but to brighten your hair before the elections. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U56	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “For distrust to the Minister of Transport of the Republic of Lithuania to Toļi Linkaita”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 28, against - 51, abstaining - 2. The draft decision is therefore rejected. Thank you to the Minister of Transport for taking part in the parliamentary session and for the debate. (Applause) On the agenda - consideration of Members' requests. Opinion of the Appeals Board Member Viktors Valaiņa, Janīna Jalinska, Jānis Dūklavs, Jānis Vucanas, Armands Krauze, Ulda Augulis, Romana Money, Gundars Dauges, Ramonas Petravičs, Karina Slūre's request to Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš "On the government's delay in a dangerous energy crisis". On behalf of the Commission, Ivars Puga, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U57	Yeah. ( Internouncing call.) So if... Right. Thus, the Request Commission has examined the request made by Member Viktoras Valaiņa, Janina Jalinska, Jānis Dūklavs, Jānis Vacāns, Armands Krauze, Ulda Augulis, Romana Money, Gundars Koite, Ramonas Petravičas, Karina Srūre to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “On the delay of the government in a dangerous energy crisis”. After assessing the replies received during the committee's meeting and voting on one 'yes', seven 'no' and one abstention, the Commission has acknowledged that this request from Members must be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U58	Thank you. Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote for the Member Viktoras Valaiņa, Janīna Jalinska, Jānis Dūklavs, Jānis Vucanas, Armands Krauze, Ulda Augulis, Romana Money, Gundars Dauges, Ramonas Petravičs, Karina Sprūde's request to Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš "On the government's delay in a dangerous energy crisis"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 32, it's against - 52, it's not. The request is therefore rejected. Dear colleagues, We have examined the agenda for the meeting on 8 September. Colleagues in the secretariat, can we start the sitting of 15 September in two or three minutes? Can we? Let's go. So, colleagues, in two minutes' time, we will continue to work on the agenda for the meeting of 15 September. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name For Inese Voika to read the registration results.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U59	Colleagues! Hasn’t registered: Arvil Asheraden (Interface: “Ir!” )... just came, Boriss Cilevičs, Gundars Dauge, Aldis Gobzems, Janīna Jalinskas, Ieva Krapāne, Edgars Kucins, Jānis Urbanovičs, Jānis Vitenbergs and Gatis Zamurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-15-PT13-2407-U60	Thank you. So I closed my session on 8 September this year. After two minutes, as soon as the agenda for the sitting on 15 September is presented electronically, let us start examining it.
