ParlaMint-LV_2022-07-14-PT13-2397-U1	Dear colleagues, Please take your seats in the Saeima sitting room. Please call again! Yeah, thank you. ( Pause) Please take your seats. Dear colleagues, The Second Extraordinary Meeting of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 14 July 2022. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law on the Protocol on the accession of the Republic of Finland to the North Atlantic Treaty. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-07-14-PT13-2397-U2	Dear President, Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, In the Foreign Affairs Commission, we examined the draft law on the Protocol on the accession of the Republic of Finland to the North Atlantic Treaty, which was designed to enable the parliamentary ratification of the future enlargement of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation or NATO within the framework of its open door policy, confirming the accession of the Republic of Finland to the Treaty and Alliance. Following Russia's war in Ukraine, the Finnish Government drew up and presented to Parliament a report on the changes in the security environment. It concludes that only membership of the security guarantees set out in Article 5 of the NATO-Nordic Treaty could provide Finland with the necessary defence potential in the event of a military conflict. A wide-ranging discussion followed, and on May 17, 2022, the Finnish Parliament, with the support of senior officials, decided to apply for NATO membership. An official application letter was submitted to NATO Secretary-General on 18 May 2022. The decision to invite Finland to open accession negotiations was approved by the Heads of State and Government at the NATO Summit on 29 June 2022... at the Madrid Summit. Finland's accession to NATO will be in accordance with the Protocol on Finland's accession to the North Atlantic Treaty. The Protocol was signed by the authorised representatives of the NATO Member States on 5 July 2022 at the NATO North Atlantic Council. In accordance with the procedure following the signature of the Protocol of Accession, the ratification process is under way, during which NATO Member States will approve the Protocol of Accession in accordance with national procedures. Following the completion of the ratification process, the ratification process of the North Atlantic Treaty will be launched in Finland by the NATO Member States in accordance with its national ratification procedures, so that Finland becomes a member of NATO, the Alliance. Colleagues! In view of Russia's war in Ukraine, Russia's aggressive rhetoric and violent foreign policy methods, very serious risks of the escalation of conflict and instability in the Baltic Sea region, it is in the interests of Latvia and our allies to speed up Finland's accession process to NATO as much as possible, thus reducing Russia's window of opportunity. The accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO is a major and important step forward for the Alliance and our region. NATO enlargement will help to further strengthen the transatlantic space and, in particular, the security of Europe and, more specifically, the Eastern Flank of NATO, as well as strengthen the capabilities of allies in the Northern axis of Europe. We are now taking part in strengthening an alliance that is capable of facing any kind of threat - both those that Russia currently poses in Ukraine and those that are potential threats to Europe as a whole. Many allies have already begun the ratification process and announced that they will do it faster than usual, because they see, as the Latvian Saeima believes, the importance of the ratification process, both in practical and symbolic terms. On behalf of the Foreign Affairs Commission, I ask Parliament to recognise the draft law as urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-07-14-PT13-2397-U3	Please accept, Sir, the assurance of my highest consideration. ... You're on the urgency... Is that so? No, no? Please call me! We will vote for the urgent vote on the recognition of the draft law on the Protocol on the accession of the Republic of Finland to the North Atlantic Treaty! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law has been declared urgent. Let's start a debate. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-07-14-PT13-2397-U4	Hello, colleagues! Without being in the Foreign Affairs Commission, but being involved in the functioning of the Saeima's foreign affairs, leading the Baltic Assembly and the Latvian delegation to the Baltic Assembly, I can tell you that the question of the accession of Sweden and Finland to the North Atlantic Treaty organisation has been discussed in an interparliamentary environment for a long time. And, as Mr Cole said, this decision was not easy in both the Finnish and the Swedish parliaments. Of course, today's geopolitical situation has greatly contributed to this. But why would I ask for a name? I ask for the floor because I would like to highlight a few things that we need to be aware of together. If we look at the current length of Russia's border as an aggressor country with the countries of the North Atlantic Treaty, then for this moment, when we read together Norway, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland with Russia, it is about 1200 kilometres long. Finland's border with Russia is 1340 kilometres. This means that these amendments, or rather Finland's accession to NATO, increase the length of the Russian border with the countries of the North Atlantic Treaty organisation more than twice. That is one aspect. The second, when it comes to Finland. You probably all know that Finland, as a country, includes this autonomous region - the Åland Islands - which is a demilitarised territory. This historic solution on Åland is coming... comes practically from more than centuries old events. And in this situation, when Finland joins the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, there is, of course, also this issue that the Finnishs have to deal with... It is not only Sweden that needs to be tackled, as has been the case so far, but it needs to be tackled in such a broader geopolitical context. That is why, in the Finnish Parliament and also in the Åland Parliament, which is an independent parliament, these issues have not been the simplest ones. And thank you to the Finnish Parliament, thank you to the Finnish Government for being divorced for such a step. In general terms, when it comes to both Sweden and Finland, the issue that we may not always think about is that of the islands in the Baltic Sea - both the Åland islands and Gotland. About Gotland... In the case of Sweden, as a very important strategic centre, which is linked to the fact that NATO base cameras could also be located there. While Sweden was not NATO, it was, of course, not a question. In this new situation, it will obviously be one of the negotiating issues. And we also need to think about this in the whole context. But in any case, both Finland and Sweden's accession to the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation I can both by myself and by myself (I dare to say all!) On behalf of the Latvian delegation in the Baltic Assembly, say only - "for". We support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-07-14-PT13-2397-U5	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-07-14-PT13-2397-U6	On behalf of the Commission, I call on Members to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-07-14-PT13-2397-U7	Please call me! We will vote on the draft law on the Protocol on the accession of the Republic of Finland to the North Atlantic Treaty at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-07-14-PT13-2397-U8	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, On behalf of the Foreign Affairs Commission, I ask Parliament to support the draft law at second, final, reading without re-examination by the Foreign Affairs Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-07-14-PT13-2397-U9	Do Members have objections? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) Please call us! Let us vote on the draft law on the Protocol on the accession of the Republic of Finland to the North Atlantic Treaty at second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please the result! (Applause) No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law on voting arrangements! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. On the agenda - Draft law on the Protocol on the accession of the Kingdom of Sweden to the North Atlantic Treaty. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-07-14-PT13-2397-U10	Dear President, Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Similarly, as I explained earlier about Finland's decision to express its wish to join NATO, the Alliance, Sweden's decision came after Russia started a full-scale war in Ukraine. The Foreign Affairs Commission examined the draft law on the Protocol on the accession of the Kingdom of Sweden to the North Atlantic Treaty. So Sweden, a traditionally strictly neutral country, has also concluded, following a long and wide-ranging discussion, that membership of NATO and the safeguards provided for in Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty could provide Sweden with the necessary protection in the event of a potential military conflict. And on 17 May 2022, the Swedish Foreign Minister, Anna Linda, signed a formal application for accession to NATO. The application to the Secretary-General of NATO was submitted on 18 May this year. On the other hand, the decision to invite Sweden to open accession negotiations was approved by the Heads of State and Government at the NATO Summit in Madrid on 29 June 2022. Like Finland, Sweden's accession to NATO will take place in accordance with the Protocol on the accession of the Kingdom of Sweden to the North Atlantic Treaty. The Protocol was signed by the authorised representatives of the NATO Member States on 5 July 2022 at the NATO North Atlantic Council. In accordance with the procedure following the signature of the Protocol of Accession, the ratification process is under way, during which NATO Member States will approve the Protocol of Accession in accordance with national procedures. After the ratification process has been completed, the ratification process of the North Atlantic Treaty will be launched in the NATO Member States in Sweden in accordance with its national ratification procedures, so that Sweden becomes a member of NATO, the Alliance. And, colleagues, about Sweden in this context. Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine on 24 February this year has led to a really wide-ranging change in the European security architecture. Sweden, like Finland, was at a turning point: in both countries, this led the public opinion to persuasively leaned on the decision to abandon the policy of neutrality - in favour of NATO membership and the corresponding extension of the security guarantees of both countries. Sweden and Finland became members of the European Union in 1995, and since the early 1990s both countries have been gradually approaching NATO. Sweden and Finland have participated in several NATO operations since 1995: Bosnia and Herzegovina, including Afghanistan. At the moment, both countries are taking a decisive step to change their status quo with regard to NATO membership. The fact that this step is being taken now is of course a response by both countries to the fundamental changes in the European security policy landscape. Russia's unlawful annexation of Crimea in 2014 was the first dividing line - in the same year Finland and Sweden strengthened their close partnership with NATO. The second, decisive, dividing line is being broken by the ratification of the accession of both countries. From the accession of Sweden and Finland to NATO we will benefit all - both the Alliance itself, with two mature democracies among the Member States, which stand up for democratic values and the rule of law, and the Baltic Sea region in particular. The security policies and military capabilities of Sweden and Finland and their readiness to continue developing rapidly do not raise questions. And we can be sure that the guarantees of collective protection provided for in Article 5 will become considerably stronger. Colleagues! On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, I also ask for urgent action to be taken on this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-07-14-PT13-2397-U11	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent vote on the recognition of the draft law on the Protocol on the accession of the Kingdom of Sweden to the North Atlantic Treaty! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Rihard Cole. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-07-14-PT13-2397-U12	Dear President, Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Before the vote on the adoption of the draft law at first reading, I would like to say a few words about this important decision at the NATO summit in Madrid, followed by the signing of the protocol. Of course, this would not be possible without a major paradigm shift in Swedish and Finnish societies. I stress that they have changed significantly in such a short period of time. In the case of Finland, after the Second World War... Yes, Finland lost part of its territory in the war with Russia. Then an agreement was reached with the Soviet Union that accordingly... Conditioned in foreign policy and other matters... opposite the Soviet Union... Finland is neutral. The so-called finlandisation, where, in my view, Finland has suffered quite a great deal for many decades. And we look at Sweden, which has kept neutrality even for hundreds of years. The last war was with Napoleon's army. And all these many years have been completely neutral. If, in these societies, this paradigm shift has taken place so quickly over the last four months, we understand what neighbouring country we have and what the risks are. They are not just conventional threats; they are hybrid threats in all possible ways. It must be understood here that the accession of Sweden and Finland to NATO - it is not just a strengthening of the security of the Baltic Sea region; it is also an important contribution to one another, to the outermost region, to the Arctic. In recent decades, the alternative regimes have also chosen to develop their imperialist ambitions - that is Russia - as well as economic ambitions, such as China... where, over the last decades, there has also been intense militarisation by these countries. And when Sweden and Finland join NATO, the Arctic becomes, in my view, safer. And that's a military... security... Transatlantic links are given a contribution. We can see that we are learning great lessons from the 20th century. It's World War II... The way in which allies defeated Nazi Germany... The supply chains across the Atlantic were very important. And, as Sweden and Finland become NATO members, they will expand and cooperation will deepen precisely on the Arctic side. We all know that Russia... Its tactical nuclear weapons, its conventional nuclear weapons... Submarines are mainly based close to the polar arc, the Arctic. And in this respect, we can also get a fairly safe environment in the Atlantic, if that is the time to come, ensuring secure supplies, supplies from our allies on the other side of the ocean. Colleagues, this is really a historic day, at least in Latvia, for us in Parliament, because with our decision we are expanding the number of NATO members. I very much hope that the procedure - in all 30 countries - will end as soon as possible. But our work is also to encourage other parliaments not to follow this process, because we see that in these turbulent times the challenges can be every week, every month; its dynamics are very variable. So I thank my colleagues for their work. And then, as I guess... This year, my favorite figure is “32”. I very much hope that by the end of the year, NATO will officially have 32 Member States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-07-14-PT13-2397-U13	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-07-14-PT13-2397-U14	On behalf of the Commission, I ask the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-07-14-PT13-2397-U15	Thank you for your report. Please call me! Let us vote on the draft law on the Protocol on the accession of the Kingdom of Sweden to the North Atlantic Treaty at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-07-14-PT13-2397-U16	Colleagues! On behalf of the Foreign Affairs Commission, please support the draft law at second, final, reading without re-examination by the Foreign Affairs Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-07-14-PT13-2397-U17	Are there any objections? There is no objection. Please call me! Let us vote on the draft law on the Protocol on the accession of the Kingdom of Sweden to the North Atlantic Treaty at second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. (Applause) We will continue to see the agenda. Draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Vita Anda Steel. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-07-14-PT13-2397-U18	Dear colleagues, Draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”” provides for addressing two issues. The first is to increase from seven to 30 days during which the import of excise goods purchased by a natural person for personal or family use is not considered to be commercial and the tax exemption applies. The aim is to prevent Latvian citizens from going to Russia and Belarus to buy certain excise goods for their own consumption, as well as to limit payments with the euro in Russia and Belarus. The State Security Service, in view of Russia's aggression against Ukraine and other countries, has warned Latvian citizens about the risks of crossing the Russian and Belarusian borders, namely that the special services of these countries have long been expanding intelligence against Latvia. The second issue that we deal with by this draft law is to provide for a delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers to determine the cases where at the border crossing point established on the road a natural person completes and submits a statement of movement of excise goods concerning certain excise goods which are transferred by a natural person in his personal luggage and to determine cases where the driver of a commercial vehicle is considered to be a representative of the carrier in relation to the individual particulars specified in the movement of excise goods notification. In practice it has been established that sometimes after the introduction into Latvia fuel is pumped out of the fuel tank and disposed of in an unauthorised manner. The Commission is asking for urgency to be given to this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-07-14-PT13-2397-U19	Mrs. Svekov, are you going to talk about urgency? No, no. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-07-14-PT13-2397-U20	The Commission has examined and supported the draft law at first reading and calls on the Saeima to do so.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-07-14-PT13-2397-U21	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-07-14-PT13-2397-U22	Colleagues and officials of the Ministry of Finance! It is a feeling that those who propose these amendments live in one reality, but here in the Saeima, those who sit in another reality. The question raised during the meeting of the Commission is how specific it is and what goods have increased... and the volume of imports in Latvia during this period, the representatives of the relevant services were unable to name specific and precise numbers. Did you really import excise goods, which are alcohol or cigarettes, or it's a fuel... Is that so? I will allow you to assume that the people of Latgale are probably driving and importing fuel from neighbouring countries. And not from good life, they do it. And not because they're going to relax or have fun there... That's not why they do it. Those who believe that in this way, by offering people from the outset the possibility of leaving and buying fuel without offering a reduction in excise duty on the same goods, we will achieve better results and a reduction in smuggling, I think you are very mistaken, colleagues. The result will be that you will only bring people living in Latgale into poverty. During the Commission meeting, there was also a question of which countries already restricted the number of journeys... neighbouring country... and allows the use of the product for private consumption. Yes, the relevant restriction is that once every 30 days there is Estonia. Colleagues, however, for your attention: the Estonian Parliament and the government have most supported... from the Baltic States... its population by reducing both excise duties on fuel and value added tax on fuel, and by providing support measures for both low-income and pensioners. Rich countries such as Germany, Italy, Ireland and Poland - unlike Latvia - have already introduced a significant reduction in excise and value added tax rates so that energy and food prices remain in some reasonable frames in a climate of high inflation. What does the Latvian Parliament and the Latvian Government do? Forbids Latgale residents to ensure their family needs with fuel. I strongly oppose both the urgency of this draft law and these amendments. Please, the government and the ruling coalition, offer from the beginning to reduce excise rates on fuel in Latvia and then offer possibilities to limit people's departure, as Estonia did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-07-14-PT13-2397-U23	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-07-14-PT13-2397-U24	The Commission supported the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-07-14-PT13-2397-U25	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-07-14-PT13-2397-U26	15 minutes - deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-07-14-PT13-2397-U27	The deadline for proposals is therefore 3.30 p.m. on 14 July this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-07-14-PT13-2397-U28	Please read the second reading Saeima in today's extraordinary sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-07-14-PT13-2397-U29	And consideration - the Saeima today in an extraordinary sitting. Thank you for your report. Dear colleagues, On the agenda - under the heading ‘Transfer of draft laws to commissions and hearings at first reading’. Draft law “On recognition of Katerina Krejci as a citizen of Latvia”. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law be referred to the Commission for Citizenship, Migration and Public Reconcilation, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? ( Interface: “No. ” ) The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. We started to examine draft laws “On the recognition of Katerina Krejci as a citizen of Latvia”, first reading. on behalf of the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity - Andrejs Judin. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-07-14-PT13-2397-U30	Hello, colleagues! The draft law is designed to recognise the citizen of the Czech Republic, Kateržina Krejčis, as a citizen of Latvia. She has been studying at the Latvian Academy of Sport Education since 2019; she is an international sportsman of the modern fifth team of Latvia, who is training and starting with an international licence issued by the International Federation of Modern Pedagogy. Krejče represents Latvia in the highest international competitions. She won a bronze medal at the 2021 European Championship in the state-of-the-art 5th category of U24, but this year in the world championship in the state-of-the-art 5th category of adults – 12th place. In 2021, the first place in the Polish Open Championship, and the third place in the German Open Championship. He links his future in Krejče with Latvia and wants to represent Latvia at the 2024 summer Olympics in Paris. Krejče has learned Latvian in a short time and has also successfully integrated into Latvian society. Her desire to obtain Latvian citizenship is supported by the Latvian Federation of Modern Fifths, the Latvian Academy of Sport Education, the National Armed Forces Sports Club and the Society “Modern Fifths Sports Club”. The Commission has carried out an inspection and it has been established that it is unable to acquire nationality through naturalisation. At the same time, it has also been found that there are no obstacles to becoming a citizen of Latvia. The Commission examined the application and unanimously supported it. Please examine the draft legislation as a matter of urgency and then support it at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-07-14-PT13-2397-U31	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “On the recognition of Katerina Krejci as a citizen of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-07-14-PT13-2397-U32	Thank you. Colleagues, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-07-14-PT13-2397-U33	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “On the recognition of Katerina Krejci as a citizen of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-07-14-PT13-2397-U34	Thank you. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at second reading as well.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-07-14-PT13-2397-U35	Are Members opposed to supporting the draft law? There is no objection. Please call me! We will vote for the second, final reading of the draft law “On the recognition of Katerina Krejci as a citizen of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, The agenda for the second remote emergency sitting of 14 July has therefore been examined. Please have Members' presence regime! ( Internouncing call.) Yes, the Bureau is planning another sitting today. ( Subtotal: How many?) ) We will now go - for half an hour or even longer - on a break. Wait - by text - you will be informed of the beginning of the next sitting. ( Milestones.) Half an hour or maybe longer. We'll report. Name to Inese Voika, member of the Secretary of the Saeima, for reading the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-07-14-PT13-2397-U36	Colleagues! Not registered: Uldis Augulis, Aldis Blumbergs, Mārtiņš Bondars, Anda Čakša, Gundars Dauge, Jānis Dombrava, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis... Dombrovskis is Aldis Gobzems, Marija Golubeva, Kaspars Ģirgens, Artuss Kaimiņš, Ieva Krapāne, Regina Ločmele, Ināra Mūrniece, Ralfs Nemiro, Ramona Petraviča, Eriks Pucens, Juris Pūce, Dace Rukšāne-Ščipčinska, Kārlis Šadurskis, Mārtiņš Šteins, Jānis Vucāns, Evita Zālīte-Gros and Reinis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-07-14-PT13-2397-U37	I closed my second extraordinary session on July 14.
