ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U1	Dear Members and honourable Members, ( The drug is noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) Dear Members and honourable Members, The Colonel shows that it is already over nine hours, so we will begin the sitting of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 31 March 2022 – the regular Saeima sitting. First of all, on the amendments tabled to the agenda of the Saeima sitting, which has already been approved by the Saeima Bureau. The Commission for Education, Culture and Science asks to amend the agenda of the Saeima sitting and to include in it the draft law “Amendments to Sport Law” at first reading. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The order of business has been amended. The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption asks to amend the agenda of the Saeima sitting and to include in it the referral of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Immigration” to the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption. Do Members object to the amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The order of business has been amended. Members of Možvillo, Sprūde, Nemiro, Gobzems and Girgens are asking for changes to the agenda and to exclude from it the draft law “Law on Civil Union”. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Maris Možvillo. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U2	Good morning, chair of the sitting! Good morning, colleagues! Good morning, viewers, observers, listeners! With great “amazement” I look at what is going on in the legislative process, with great “amazement” views - where is the pride of the Latvian people, the honor and the backbone that has always been for the Latvian people?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We're already... We see - there is war in Ukraine. When we travel through several countries, we see that countries are proud to wear their own country's regals - flags, armor. When entering Latvia, this feeling becomes... Interesting. When I enter the center of Riga this morning, I see the flag on the scale of the Ukrainian flag in front of the Cabinet of Ministers. I understand our desire to support Ukraine in various ways; we encourage the participation of the people in various ways, but we forget that the flag of our people is the red and white. I have nothing against that we show our attitude towards Ukraine, the war and what is happening in the world at all, but I think that these scopes should also be the flag of Latvia. When we talk about the bill that we are moving on, it is the same flag story. It has come to mind in the world that there is another flag that could be deployed in Latvia. And their flooding shall be carried out by a small part of the people, if it may be called. And this nation wants to, if it can be called, change its laws in Latvia and implement them... I do not think that I will be able to stop this bill for a week now, but you will show whether you really want such a law to become alive and to be introduced into our society. Colleagues! I understand that at the moment it is decided whether we will stay as Latvians or be able to join any flag that will roar at that moment in “more beautiful” - perhaps in the “right” direction, perhaps for “right” money. But where is the Latvian power left, where remains the Latvian nation, which former President of Latvia Vaira Vīķe-Freiberga once called strong? Where's it going? Just a question. Colleagues, I call for this bill to be postponed. Perhaps the promoters will have clarity, reason and desire not to push this bill further and to continue to raise their Latvianness, our consciousness that we are still Latvians, not people who are bowing when there are “right” flags. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U3	Colleagues, I call on us not to take advantage of the situation of the parliamentary troupe when we express solidarity to the Ukrainian people and to the Ukrainian state, which has been voted on here by the Saeima Members - also by the Ukrainian flag at the Saeima House, showing this solidarity. Please do not, in your political rhetoric, turn to the wishes of all the Saeima to show solidarity here from the parliamentary tribunal. (Applause) We're continuing the Saeima sitting. One Member has spoken "for" amendments to the agenda of the Saeima sitting. ‘ Against’ - Members have not applied. The decision must be taken by vote. Please call me! We will vote for amendments to the agenda of the sitting, excluding the draft law on civil union! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 25, for - 40, for - 2. The order of business has not been amended. We are starting to review the agenda of the session, as amended. The Legal Commission of the Saeima has prepared a draft law “Law on Civil Union”. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Law on Civil Union” submitted by the Legal Commission be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Juris Puce. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U4	Dear President, Highly respected colleagues and highly respected colleagues! First of all, I would like to thank my colleagues from the Ministry of Justice and the Legal Commission of the Saeima very much for having an opportunity today to decide on this draft law. I would ask you today... I would like to call on you to vote in favour. Vote for our people. I would call on you to vote for the rule of law, for human dignity, for security and freedom, for equality and for the family. To vote in favour of these values, which have no political boundaries. These values are neither right, left, central, liberal or conservative. These are the values recorded in our Constitution, the fundamental values of Latvia. These values are also covered by the proposed draft law on Civil Union Law. This has been achieved over a longer period, during a broad debate, and it is a compromise. This bill is about the rule of law. We respect the judgments of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court Senate, we implement them responsibly against both the court and the people of Latvia. We Members of the Saeima cannot choose which court judgments or laws we find politically comfortable or pleasant. In the rule of law, we respect and enforce our laws and judicial decisions and respect our people. This bill is about security. We know that there is a force that is oppressing its people; a force that is now violently and brutally crossing the borders of other countries, is beginning wars, destroying people's dreams, hopes, lives and families, trying to take away even the land and freedom. Unfortunately, this force also leads us today to the path of oppression, but I call for it not to be done. At the same time, we know that there are forces that, despite any efforts to be oppressed and humiliated, continue to fight for their right and their neighbor to live in a secure and free society and in the country. Such power begins and develops in the family - among the closest - among the people with whom we have decided to go together at some stage of our life. Among people who are united in their care and respect. Happily, that's the power among us as well... Inside, inside us. We are ready to fight boldly for the right to live in a free, secure country, free and secure society. In a way that respects each other. This bill is about equality and the family. Yes, it is about the legal protection of all families; for all those families for which I have also personally been active since 2015 - for all who have not strengthened or cannot strengthen their family ties. We have to provide this protection in our hands. This bill is about human dignity. The right to be seen, recognised and protected. However, we still cannot recognise and legally protect people who have been trying to ignore them for 25 years right there... This is the time to be united and stand up for each other. Today we have the opportunity to hear and see our people; we have the opportunity to fulfil our people's dreams, hopes, lives... and families. Our people. Latvian people. Colleagues, I call on you today to vote in favour of the draft law on civil union, to pass it on to the Commission and to support it at first reading. I call for the vote in favour of justice. I call on you to vote in favour of the people of Latvia. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U5	Ms Ramona Petraviča has applied for a speech. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U6	Dear President, Dear colleagues, The draft law “Law on Civil Union” is an after-production of the Civil Law of the Republic of Latvia establishing the form of marriage, but there are two differences between the Civil Law of the Republic of Latvia and this draft law. That is, if this draft law is adopted, it will become a law that does not require partners to be faithful and actually legalizes same-sex relationships. Such a law will degrade the desired and natural structure of the family by creating an initiative not to enter into a long-term marriage, to the detriment of the well-being of children who will grow up in these families, and it will be logical from a legal point of view. Note that Latvia's long-term development lies on the shoulders of our families, where healthy children grow up. The law of civil union will in most cases apply to same-sex couples, because what suggests that such a union will be closed by the opposite-sex couples? The draft law ‘Law on Civil Union’ is unacceptable for three main reasons. First. Children growing up in families of same-sex parents will not develop an understanding of a natural family. It should be stressed that as children grow up, a model of mother-to-father relations is needed to develop their moral values system and be able to build their own personality. The same-sex couples will never be able to guarantee this because there is no guarantee that social standards are respected in these families. A woman in marriage is a wife or mother, a man - husband or father, but after this law they will be “partner number one”, “partner number two”... or any person... Such completely realistic examples illustrate the absurd situations in which innocent children will be placed... and, most likely, will be promoted in order to maintain such a relationship in their lives. Of course, the welfare of children is adversely affected by divorce and disagreements also in registered and unregistered marriages. The same level of risk exists in civil unions, but the government must recognise only those unions where children do not have to lose their parents and natural family models, because children in same-sex families do not have natural rights to both parents. Second, this law contributes to the disappearance of a natural family. The parent number one and the parent number two - two mothers degrade the child's understanding of the need for a natural family, never establishing the responsibilities of the family on the mother's or father's shoulders. Children in these families will never understand whether they like a natural family because they will never see it. It is therefore clear that these children will almost never choose or at least be able to choose a natural family model as they grow up. Thirdly. It is an unjustified disintegrating of the public. Our President of Latvia, Levit, has rightly pointed out that the introduction of a partnership for both heterosexual and homosexual couples, following the European human rights jurisdiction on the prohibition of discrimination, leads to the introduction of an inevitable same-sex marriage. This is contrary to the Constitution of Latvia. In addition to the problems already identified in connection with same-sex marriages, the adoption of such a controversial decision would strengthen the polarisation already existing in society, fuel hatred and undermine confidence in public administration. Ladies and gentlemen! Note that by adjusting the Labour Law and giving the possibility to co-residents to conclude notary agreements, the obligations indicated in the Constitutional Court can be fully fulfilled. At a time when a sense of uncertainty about the future appears in society, the threat of a natural family will not only harm the further development of the country, but will directly endanger the future of children growing up in these families. I call for this draft law to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U7	One Member has spoken 'for', one Member has spoken 'no' to the commission responsible for the draft law. The decision must be taken by vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Law on Civil Union” submitted by the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes to refer the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Law on Management of the European Social Fund Plus Programme to the Budget and Financial (tax) Commission for the 20-2027 programming period, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Labour Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? ( Intercretion: Vote!) ) Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Labour Law” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 65, it's 12, it's not. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Part of the Civil Law of the Republic of Latvia, the Law of the Renewed of the Republic of Latvia, the Rights of Heritage and the Rights of Cases” be submitted to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law on the Third Additional Protocol to the General Rules of Procedure of the World Postal Union presented by the Cabinet be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On the recognition of Benjamin Morris Rota as a citizen of Latvia” presented by the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Public Alignity be referred to the Commission for Citizenship, Migration and Public Alignity, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On the recognition of Andrew John James as a citizen of Latvia” presented by the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Public Alignity be referred to the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Alignity, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the Member Viktoras Valaiņa, Edgars Tatars, Armands Krauze, Ulda Augulis, Didžas Šmita, Janīna Jalinska, Jānis Dūklavs, Gundars Dauges, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, Evija Papules and Eriks Pucens submit the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Conformity Assessment” to the National, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Members ask for a vote and have also applied for a speech. Mr. Valaiņš, are you going to talk about it or 'no'? ( Internouncing call.) Name to Member Viktor Valaini - “for” handing over the draft law to the commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U8	Very respectful Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, This will be the third time that we are addressing this issue from this troupe and call on our colleagues to express their views on the issue of the elimination of biofuels for one year. Since then, colleagues, a lot has changed. Indeed, I would like to thank those committee leaders who have dealt with this issue in their commissions also in substance and who have looked into what the situation really is at the moment. I would like to say that, during this month, we have heard a lot of government reflections about the need to help people. We can see that fuel prices will rise every day. We will see that, from tomorrow's point of view, fuel prices will continue to rise, but from the ruling coalition we are now hearing only some excuses about why we cannot do this - VAT, excise duty cannot be reduced, clearly not in any way. This is what the Ministry of Finance tells us, the impact is also extremely... millions have already been counted, but there is no reason why we cannot use other instruments, because, obviously, entrepreneurs have already bought these impurities and this will give rise to costs for the public budget, compensation will have to be paid and everything else. Colleagues, we are also talking to these entrepreneurs. We understand that 1 April is already overdue and only overdue as a result of the indecision of our own Saeima. But 1 June can also be the date from which you can cancel... these impurities. You think the fuel price increase will end with June 1st? ( Internouncing call.) Do you really think... Is that so? The new Unity now expresses the fact that fuel will be cheaper tomorrow. I understand that. Fuel will remain cheaper from tomorrow, from 1 April, according to the New Unity, I understand. I think that this is perhaps a slightly different reality in which the New Unity lives, because the Prime Minister of the New Unity offers people to travel by bicycle and think about other means of movement. I think, for my part, what I have to say to the farmers who came with this initiative first so that they can draw on the fields of Latvia and sow them. Would it really be the right moment with bicycles in the fields apart? You can try, but someone could set an example in this case. We see that Germany, France, is supporting their farmers in addition to all the aid payments that are already provided specifically for the reduction of excise duty on diesel. We can see that our stores are already now - already now! - begins to flood goods from abroad, begins to compete for our local products. Why is that so? Isn't that just because of tax policy? Is this not due to the aid payments received by farmers as well as by the general public? For a month now, fuel prices have been rising, but we are continuing to talk. Let us wait a month while people get into debt, and then let us start addressing that issue? Colleagues, I think this is not normal. At the moment, this specific proposal, this specific question... I have to admit, we've laid it down. We have laid it down, 1 April is already tomorrow, and that is objectively no longer possible - 1 April to remove the use of impurities, but we can hand over the draft law to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy and start the matter with 1 June. June 1, we can do that. In the Commission too, fuel dealers themselves have acknowledged that we can talk about other quarters. It's not that these impurities have been bought for a long time. Colleagues, today the Saeima and the government too, unfortunately, only do so as they speak, but do not offer real solutions. This is just one solution, the budget is not affected. The Ministry of Finance also made this clear in one of the commissions: this is not a reduction in excise duty. This is a solution that would in some way have some impact on the potential increase in fuel prices. Colleagues, I call for this draft law to be passed on to the Commission and for possible solutions to be discussed already in the context of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U9	Please call me! We will vote for the member Viktoras Valaiņa, Edgars Tatars, Armands Krauze, Ulda Augulis, Didžas Šmita, Janīna Jalinska, Jānis Dūklavs, Gundars Dūkes, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, Evija Papule and Erika Pucens' draft law “Amendment to the Law on Conformity Assessment” to the National, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, stating that it is a commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 34, for - 35, for - 12. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law on amendments to the Law on Immigration presented by the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption be referred to the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Before continuing to examine the agenda, colleagues would like to inform you of any changes to the agenda adopted by the Bureau. The Legal Commission is asking to review the draft law “Law on Civil Union” at first reading without re-examination by the responsible committee at this sitting of the Saeima. Members have reservations. ( The utterances: ‘ Vote! ’) “Yes!” ) Please call us! We will vote for the examination of the draft law at first reading in this sitting of the Saeima without re-examination by the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The order of business has been amended. The Commission of Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity asks the draft law “On the recognition of Benjamin Morris Rota as a citizen of Latvia” to be discussed at this sitting of the Saeima at first reading without re-examination by the committee responsible. Do Members object to the amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The order of business has been amended. The Commission of Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity is asking to review the draft law “On the recognition of Andrew John James as a citizen of Latvia” at this sitting of the Saeima at first reading without re-examination by the committee responsible. Do Members object to the amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption is asking to review the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Immigration” at first reading in this sitting of the Saeima without re-examination by the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There is no objection by Members. The order of business has been amended. We shall continue to examine the amended agenda. The next item is "On own-initiative proposals tabled". The next item is the Bureau's report on the proposal for an own-initiative opinion. Members Ramona Petraviča, Maris Možvillo, Jūlija Stepanenko, Ieva Krapāne, Karina Sprūde, Kaspars Ģirgens, Aldis Gobzems, Lubova Švecova, Ēriks Pucens, Ralfs Nemiro and Inguna Rībena have submitted their own proposal – draft decision “On the task for the Cabinet of Ministers to waive the requirement for a Covid-19 certificate for the performance of its duties”. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ ) Members have reservations. We must therefore decide on the inclusion of an own-initiative proposal on the agenda of the next sitting. One Member can talk about this, one against and one against. Member Ramona Petraviča has applied to speak about it. Please, you have a name.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U10	Colleagues, you have to stop playing with certificates! We need to abolish them - and abolish them all. Month-long employees (Interface.) were kept in a state of uncertainty as to who will be allowed to work and when. Everything happens at the last moment, confusion and ignorance have taken over people. What has been the reason for maintaining the need for certificates for medical and educational staff and those working in prisons? This is a political and social way of influencing people by making it compulsory to vaccinate them. A person is discriminated against for his own sake. In addition, as has already been demonstrated, the prevalence rate of Covid-19 among vaccinated and unvaccinated individuals does not differ significantly. According to the medical union, when comparing the structure of hospital patients, the total number of fully vaccinated people is 47 percent, while the total number of unvaccinated and partially vaccinated patients is 53 percent. Of those in difficulty who are in hospital, 48 percent are vaccinated and unvaccinated or partially vaccinated, 52 percent are vaccinated. These have been figures since January this year. Since the beginning of February, the Latvian Education and Science Workers' Union has repeatedly addressed the Ministry of Industry with a request to base its national strategy on the substance, namely to put forward arguments in favour of lifting or maintaining the requirement for Covid-19 pots or microslip certificates for representatives of the education sector, working on the spot. According to LIZDA, such arguments have not been put forward so far. Nor has the experience of the closest neighbouring countries of Latvia – Estonia and Lithuania – been analysed, while they completely waive the requirement for a mandatory interoperability certificate in the education sector. The head of the Free Trade Union of Latvia has also encouraged the assessment of the practices of neighbouring countries and the withdrawal of certificates in all sectors. The more embarrassing it is, therefore, the announcement by the Minister for Education and Science that certificates should be preserved, because their abolition would not be fair to those educators who were surrounded. Colleagues! After all, people vaccinated to protect themselves. As seen, vaccination had no effect on morbidity; the disease was nothing to do with vaccination: both vaccinated and unvaccinated. And the Gentiles are now being punished for the fact that some part of the society was rotten and sick. Those who are not vaccinated are punished for being ill. It's a mistake with disobedient ones. The teachers are lacking, but their professionalism is now solely determined by the existence or absence of a certificate. Teachers with decades of experience are “disposed as old lupatas” (these are their own words!) . An absolutely incomprehensible position is also taken on the issue of establishing the period of validity of the congestion certificate. For example, people who expired in March were prohibited to work until 1 April, but if they expire after 1 April, they can continue working until 30 June. Are there any scientific studies on differences in disease rates or levels of antibodies if they occurred a month ago or now? It is designed in such a complicated way that the creators themselves will contaminate into them and even forget part of the people at times because their own pockets do not affect them. Perhaps the real reason lies in the huge stock of vaccines in the warehouse? Please support the draft decision and cancel the certificates for absolutely all workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U11	The decision must be taken by vote. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft decision “On task for the Cabinet of Ministers to waive the requirement for a Covid-19 certificate for the performance of duties” on the agenda of the Saeima's next sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 34, against - 42, refraining - 5. Consequently, the draft decision is not included on the agenda of the next ordinary sitting of the Saeima. Do Members have proposals to hand over an own-initiative proposal - the draft decision - to one of the commissions? ( Pause) So there are no proposals for referral to the Commission. The draft decision is rejected. We shall continue to examine the agenda of the Saeima sitting. On the agenda, under the heading ‘On the granting of leave’. ‘ For unpaid leave granted to Member Gatim Zamur on 24 March this year.’ Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that Parliament's Presidium granted unpaid leave to Member Gatim Zamura on 24 March this year, and you are being informed about it at this sitting of the Saeima. ‘ For unpaid leave granted to Member Maris Kučinskis on 24 March this year.’ Dear colleagues, the Saeima Bureau has granted the Member Maris Kučinskis unpaid leave on 24 March this year, and you are informed of this at this parliamentary sitting. The next item is "Provision of draft legislation". On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Andris Skride.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U12	Good morning, colleagues! Dear President, We look at the bill in the second, final, reading. I would remind you that the aim of the draft law is to reduce social inequalities, i.e. to start paying social contributions to young parents as well. Six proposals were received for the second reading. 1. - Mr. Clementyev's proposal. The Commission was not supported. ( Insight: “Why? Vote!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U13	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Andrey Klementyeva's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U14	Proposal No 2 This is also not supported by the Commission. ( Subtotal: “Why? ”) ) It is also from Member Klementyeva. I'm sorry I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U15	Members agree. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U16	There's no... were not supported due to budgetary constraints. It is not supported by the Ministry of Finance, it is not (interchanges.) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U17	So Members are asking for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Andrey Klementyeva's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U18	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's editorial. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U19	Members are in favour. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U20	I should have... I should have... Go on, colleagues. The same is true for 4. - Andrey Klementyev's proposal. It provided for an extension of the number of persons for whom minimum contributions are made. This proposal is also not supported by the Commission on budgetary grounds. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U21	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - Andrey Klementyeva's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U22	5. - a proposal from Members Andra Skrides, Anda Chakša and Evita Zalīte-Gros. The Law provides that these social contributions shall be paid from 1 January 2023. This proposal intends to start at half a year earlier. There is no budgetary impact on this. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U23	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U24	6. - the proposal by Member Andrejs Klementyev concerning transitional provisions. This is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U25	And, since proposal 1 has not been supported, it is not put to the vote either. However, the proposal can be debated. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Krishan’s intermediate call.) Mr. Krishan, you want a debate? Please! Let us start a debate. Name to Member Janis Krishan.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U26	Madam President, I am very respectful of the Speaker of the Saeima sitting. Dear colleagues, I would think that these proposals were aimed at our future because... I think, however, that the Ministry of Welfare should also think about this proposal... for promotion and support, because those new families that are now established in Latvia and who... part has returned... they go away again, because they don't see any guarantees for their future or for their old age. And the text that the public budget will have a great burden... I think it's not right. I think that in the future, the state budget will only lose... and will also lose our people. It is a pity that we did not see the substance of these proposals and that we did not support them today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U27	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Raiv Dzintar.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U28	Dear President, Dear colleagues, This proposal, as has already been said, is not a vote, but it is the last one, the last one on the list of proposals. I, too, am pleased that Members have voted in line with the Commission's view, and I would like to express my satisfaction with the votes that have been put to the vote so far. I have no doubt that the final, final, vote on this bill will also be positive. Indeed, it is a gratification: after several parliamentary elections, we will have managed together to prevent their very serious injustice towards families, children and mothers. As I said when we passed this bill to the commission, discrimination or... loss of family, for example, with three children... at the age of retirement, it is about EUR 42 each month. That was the reality so far. I would like to say a great deal of thanks to the Centre for Demographic Affairs (and personally to the Immant Debtor) for this initiative and for the fact that these amendments were designed. Thanks to colleagues from “Development/About!” and the new Conservatives with which we signed and presented this bill. And, of course, Mr Skrides and the Commission - about a very fast look at this issue in the Commission. Also, to Mrs Čakša and other colleagues, the deadline for 1 July was adjusted. I call for support. And I congratulate colleagues - even before the vote - on a very historic step to prevent this injustice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U29	I closed the debate. I would remind you that the proposal cannot be put to the vote because proposal 1 has not been supported. But Mr Skride, would you like to add something more on behalf of the Commission on this proposal?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U30	This proposal - no. Once again, thank you all for working on this bill. On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support this draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U31	Thank you. Therefore, Proposal No 6 is not supported and cannot be put to the vote. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance” in the second, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. (Applause) The next item on the agenda of the sitting of the Saeima is the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Security of Public Entertainment and Holiday Events”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Artus Kaimiņš. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U32	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Hello, dear colleagues! Start of review of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Security of Public Entertainment and Festivals” (No. 1379/Lp13). This is the second reading. The draft law can be seen as a matter of urgency, so this is a final reading. We have received nine proposals from the Commission. 1. - The proposal from Members Linda Mednes and Artus Neighbins. This proposal is partly supported. And it is included in 3. - the Commission's proposal. For the purpose of the parliamentary verb, I'll read... I would remind you of the substance of the proposal to explain why it has been partly supported and why it has been created3. - Commission proposal. Thus, proposal 1 provides for a ban on the promotion and praise of events containing the ideology of the Nazi, Fascist and Communist regime through the birth days of certain persons with whom these ideologies are associated... The days of commemoration of battles and victories or the anniversary of the occupation of independent states or territories... such events... For example, 9 May in the context of the history of the USSR, praise of the anniversary of the occupation of Latvian cities in the context of both the USSR and Nazi Germany. This point of the law should not apply to events organised to commemorate the victims of Nazism, Fascism and Communism... as well as remind of the harm done by these criminal regimes when the municipality evaluates whether, with the aim of commemorating victims, the real purpose of the event is not to promote or justify the ideology of Nazism, Fascism or Communism. On behalf of the Commission, I would like to add that the editorial version of this proposal is No. 3 and here the word “fascism” is deleted, so... The ideology of Nazism or Communism - the wording that remains in proposal 3. This proposal, colleagues, has been partly supported and included in proposal 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U33	Let us start a debate. The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U34	Dear colleagues, I will be talking about both proposal 1 and proposal 3. I call on you not to forget that we are talking here about fundamental rights - freedom of assembly. Such restrictions are, of course, acceptable and often necessary, but they must be justified, legitimate and proportionate to that objective. So... You hear me, don't repeat? ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U35	We hear you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U36	Yeah, okay. So in this situation, the aim of this draft law is very clear: to limit the use of new symbols of aggression in public events. That is a completely legitimate objective, proportionate and we supported it. Now... This proposal substantially extends these restrictions and, in my view, without any foundation. If you look at the third proposal, which was supported by the Commission, in its second part... Point 4.2 makes the substance of the matter very clear, point 4.1 - this is a completely different situation. Colleagues, what is an “ideological event”? The event is something that has happened. Yes, Latvian is not my mother tongue, maybe I did not understand anything, please explain. That is the fact. How can a fact contain an ideology? How should this provision be translated, and how should it be applied to specific events, historical facts, surnames, persons? It is very rare that it is completely white or completely black. That is a question of interpretation. What are we asking for? Those police officers who will have to implement this rule? I don't think so. Let me just give you a few examples. At the Commission meeting, I asked the applicants a specific question. The Stalingrad battle. Is this a positive event, which means defeating the Nazi army, or is it a famous event for Stalin and Stalin regimes? Who will decide? Or, for example, the Leningrad blockade. A tragic event. I know that very well because my mom like a nurse in a hospital... All the block went out, all 900 days. But it's definitely also related to the name of Lenin. It seems to me that it is very dangerous to ban or allow something from one - purely ideological - interpretation. The same applies to persons. Any of us can also mention several persons in the history of Latvia, who played both a very positive and a very negative role in different stages of their history, such as Herbert Zukurs. Colleagues, the rule of law must be clear, easy to understand and apply, and I particularly stress once again - when it comes to restricting fundamental rights. This provision, this proposal does not meet the following criteria: I understand very well the emotions of the applicants. We all feel indignation, to some extent powerlessness in the circumstances of what is happening - tragedy in Ukraine, aggression in Russia... It is very willing to do something to stop it, but with such proposals we will not achieve it, on the contrary: we must stick to the principles of democracy and human rights, we must not be like those we condemn, those who continue to commit crimes today, the criminal war against Ukraine. That is why I call on you not to support either proposal 1 or proposal 3. I call for a 'no' vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U37	The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U38	Dear colleagues, I understand Mr Cilevič's concerns, but I call for a careful reading of the proposed text, namely, to read proposal 3. Yeah, those first words... It really is what Mr. Cilevič said. The Nazi and Communist regimes cannot be promoted, praised and so on, but I would also ask you not to forget the words that are written below, that is to say, they must not do all of this unless the aim of the measure is not to praise totalitarian regimes or justify the crimes committed or is used for educational, scientific or artistic purposes. Thus, if there is no evil intention, such acts may be carried out, but if the purpose is wrong, if the purpose is to justify totalitarian regimes, to justify Nazi or Communist regimes, that is not permissible. I therefore call for partial support for proposal 1 and for full support for proposal 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U39	I closed the debate. Mr. Neighbours, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U40	Thank you, Mr Judin, for your legal explanation to Mr Cilevič. Mr. Cilevičs had not, or perhaps not, heard all the arguments at the meeting of the Saeima Committee. Once again: Proposal No 1 has been partly supported and included 3. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U41	So Mr Cilevič did not request a vote on proposal 1. Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U42	Thank you. 2. - Member Edgar Tatar's proposal. Partly supported and included 3. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U43	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U44	It's very short. I will not ask for a vote on the specific proposal, but I would like to thank the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. Thank you very much to all my colleagues. This is indeed one of the rare times when it can be seen that Parliament agrees in its position on everything that is currently happening in Ukraine and on the part of society that is trying to justify it in any way. On behalf of the Latvian Parliament, we send out a clear signal that Latvia condemns such action. This draft law in general and progress in the examination of the draft law both at first reading and... in the committee responsible, as well as in the legal commission, a draft law similar to that approved, clearly and lightly has shown that the Latvian Parliament condemns such action and that no support is acceptable for public entertainment and holidays or everyday activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U45	I closed the debate. Mr. Neighbours, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U46	On behalf of the Commission, on the proposal itself, Mr Tatar called for the delegation supported at first reading to be excluded from the Cabinet of Ministers to draw up a list of symbols used for military aggression in famous stylistics, i.e. it is not necessary for the Cabinet of Ministers to do so, because the symbols are too many and it will only promote unnecessary bureaucracy. In the Commission, the proposal is partly supported and included 3. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U47	Mr Tatar did not request a vote on this proposal. Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U48	Thank you. 3. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Proposals 1 and 2 have been merged and a Commission proposal has been created. As I first read from the protocol, the word "fascism" is removed. On behalf of the Commission, I will also add to what Member Judin reminded us of: if the purpose of these measures is not to praise totalitarian regimes or justify criminal offences or to use them for educational, scientific or artistic purposes. This proposal is supported by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U49	Let us start a debate. The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U50	Thank you to Mr Judine for his answer, but unfortunately this was not the answer to my questions. I'm not going to repeat the previous speech, I didn't hear it... issues. I can only stress one thing: colleagues, let us read about what we are voting on: ‘to promote and praise... events... except where the objective... is not to praise...’. So praise, except when it's not associated with praise... Once again, I understand your emotions, I understand your good intentions, but in my view, such norms cannot simply be adopted. I call for a 'no' vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U51	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U52	Colleagues, I would like to say a few words on my own behalf. Like we all speak Latvian here in this room, right? But sometimes it's that you don't really understand what this is about. And when I do not understand what this is about, I will also explain what it is about - literally. Mr. Cilevič, stop climbing! Stop some sort of slalom track in this case! We are talking here about a ban on 9 May. You understand all this, were it not so far clear? This bill, this proposal forbids to mark, celebrate May 9 as the Day of Victory, gather or... as otherwise in the whole territory of Latvia. In this case, I would also like to thank Dāvis Stalts, a Member of the Riga City Council, who helped to set up this proposal with his experience, because there have been cases when the events and the Council (it doesn't matter to me whether it is the Riga City Council or any other city council) have been applied for. The applicant for the event still comes and tries to implement this gathering by submitting a claim, a counterclaim in the Constitutional Court or a court. And then this legal turnout is already taking place, which is more legitimate... and so on, but while this is happening, the event has taken place and the applicant has already implemented his idea, and 9 May is noted. Everything has happened, and then even the floods... That's all. Therefore, here is a black to white: on behalf of the committee, the highest decision-making power of Latvia is proposed to ban such events from being noted a priori in any territory of Latvia. The aim of this proposal is precisely that. Therefore, please support this proposal, 3. Thank you. ( Intercretion: “Rightly, Artus! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U53	We are continuing the debate. The name of Member Linda Medne.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U54	Good afternoon, honourable colleagues in the Saeima, municipalities, present! First of all, I would like to thank the Conservative Group of the Riga City Council for its initiative to draw the attention of the Saeima Members to the urgent need to supplement the Law on Security of Public Entertainment and Holiday Events with norms that would make it more difficult for Russia's hybrid war to take place in real life. It is precisely such events that include the event of the 9 May victory of the Soviet army. Our proposal is included in proposal 3 supported by the Commission. The existing law has so far been widely interpreted in favour of the application of various measures, including the previous 9 May Occupancy Celebration Celebration Day, as some call it. This year, the whole world has reached this... the level of eye-opening, when even the biggest constituencies see and understand what Putin Russia is actually and most of its supporters. It's these criminals... addressing the entire civilised world and its values by the state's criminal regime... including its Russian hybrid war weapon and instrument... using the USSR army and ideologies promotional and laudable events. These are the events of the 9 May victory, as well as recent other dates, such as the celebration of Riga's celebration on 13 October, during which individuals, especially under the Russian flags, are trying to cross Kisezera, thus expressing their soldier's position and threat to Latvia's freedom... to the public. This law provided for a broad explanatory part, which expands the possibilities for municipalities to legally interpret refusals and reasons against applications for national measures, rather than linking them to specific dates. With this decision, we are all strengthening Latvia's state defence in the context of the threat of the Russian hybrid war and will probably prevent the confrontation of potentially dangerous groups of society. I call for support for the proposal. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U55	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U56	Dear Members, In these circumstances, it seems to me that the proposal is absolutely harmful. Why is it harmful? The large number of people who mark 9 May in this way or in this way make it impossible in practice to stop it with the existing forces of the guardians of the order. That means... To detain people who wish to mark this or this 9 May, it will be necessary to complement the police with the forces of the national guards, with the army. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. (A. Neighbourhood sub-scenario) Thus, Latvia’s defence will be “open” at a time when Latvia is threatened by aggression from the Russian Federation, as stated (Interior call.) Foreign and Defence Ministers. Unfortunately, the havoc, such as the Neighbours, wants to take away from Latvia's order... certain forces. At the moment, it is impossible to administratively ban May 9, as the Neighbours offered. The village is not about Ukraine; he is simply against the Russians. Remember that! “ Russia is... “)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U57	We are continuing the debate. The name to Member Boris Cilevič for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U58	Dear Mr. Neighbour, your accusation is certainly out of place for me. This is more to be addressed to you. If you wanted to propose a ban on 9 May, why did you not submit the following amendment: ban the celebration of 9 May throughout the territory of Latvia? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. (A. Neighbourhood sub-scenario) Instead, you have proposed a text that, to put it mildly, must not be praised, except if it is not for the purpose of praise. And then. — Dep. (A. Neighbourhood sub-scenario) ... Of course... but we work at the Saeima with specific rules of law, not with any intentions or plans, and so on. It does not appear from your text that all measures relating to 9 May should indeed be banned. So I just want to suggest that if you have some idea that you think it is necessary or useful... You're personally... In view of the upcoming elections or otherwise, please make this clear and unambiguous. But right now, this proposal, 3, unfortunately, in my view... I will not repeat my arguments... Not acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U59	Name to Member Uldis Budric.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U60	Highly honored Head of the sitting! Colleagues! I'm still trying and trying to understand what Boris is trying to say, but... Since we don’t have to talk to the hall when we talk from the platform, I’ll try to talk to everyone. ... with yourself, yes (Love laughter.) Because you don't listen. But when I talk about not listening, I think... I don't know if this is working... his VD... if you are listening - there are examples of why you should do. Thank you. ( A few people go round.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U61	We are continuing the debate. The name to Member Artus Neimins for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U62	Colleagues! This draft law can be seen as a matter of urgency. It shall be 31 March 2022. My personal view is that this draft law has been delayed by 15 years. It should have been 15 years ago. Also 15 years ago, all the issues about propaganda channels from the Kremlin had to be arranged. It was a long time ago. It is only a pity that so much blood should have been shed since 24 February, so that here we all finally start to speak the same language and to think of these proposals in this way when the opposition with the position (interim.) ... with a position and opposition... I can't hear anything... I can't hear anything. ( Independence: ‘... also filmed in a film by the Russian Federation!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U63	Interviews from the medicines are permitted, but please do not interfere with the course of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U64	Thank you. A close viewer from the series of SAVE, here I am shouting on the surface that the Neighbours has filmed in Russian films. And, you know, it's true, the neighbor has filmed Russian films. I would like to say that it is a pity that this rhetoric goes private... root because Neighbours refused to film in Russian films since Crimean annexation. The village left the actor's profession, the village came and started working in the Saeima. It's this trigger, if you can say so... But that leap to me was Russian... Crimean annexation. And since then, Neighbouring hasn't filmed in Russian films. It's for careful Russian viewers. The film is called “The Chetier Vosstad Lubs” (The Four Years of Love). Dear Members! I would ask for support for proposal 3. And then I will speak on behalf of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U65	We are continuing the debate on the proposal. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U66	The President of the sitting. Dear colleagues, When we look at this draft law and the proposals, we are very wide today... we have launched this debate on where and how someone has filmed, but it would be essential to remember why this draft law was presented at all. These improvements, which have been developed by the Commission itself, are, in my view, welcome. Since 24 February, the situation is no longer the same as it was before. And now we can no longer treat these measures with the same tolerance as we could have done all these years before these events. The reason we prepared this bill was basically this: to avoid all kinds of provocations. I would like to thank the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, including its President, Artus Kaimiņš, for deciding, as a matter of urgency, to support and direct further consideration of this draft law in the Saeima. And also on these proposals for strengthening measures on liability and restrictions presented; these are proposals drawn up within the Commission. I would like to thank the entire Commission and those Members who support these proposals and will continue to support them today. I believe and understand that the vote will be in line with the decision of the committee. I think that this draft law is very important and we need to adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U67	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U68	Very respectful head of the Saeima sitting! Dear colleagues, I was very, very, very reluctant to talk about this subject, but, you see, the problem with this approach is that it does not, by its very nature, solve the problem as such. With this approach, the real problem is hidden under the carpet, hidden. See... How better would a better world... If those citizens of Latvia and non-citizens who are referred to as “Russian-speaking residents of Latvia”... Would that 9 May be re-evaluated, coming from inside... Then they would decide whether to participate in those celebrations on 9 May, come to that monument or not. ( Interface: “There will be no festival on May 9 ” ) And if they decided not to do so, the problem would disappear. But today, by prohibiting or denying... I didn't understand how it was technically... Executable or Executable... Even if the ban is the result of not coming to the monument, none of the parties will really be satisfied, because then there will be a suspicion - they would already like to go, but we prohibited them, so they did not leave. No one will really be satisfied. Consequently, its problem as such will not be resolved in substance. It is a fight against symptoms, not a problem. I think that there are many experienced colleagues here who have also understood this. All that is is to show that tolerance is no longer present. Unfortunately, this does not solve the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U69	The name to Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U70	Dear President, Dear colleagues, There is a slight inaccuracy. We're talking about May 9, it's sounded a few times from the pub. I recall that the Second World War in Europe did not end on 9 May; the Second World War in Europe ended on 8 May. And this celebration question... exactly on 9 May... is associated with the celebration after (Interior call.) ... the colleague is already here to specify... after Moscow time. So what's that 9 May... Who celebrates it? Leading those who, at the moment, perhaps want to support Russia's aggression. So, colleagues, if we mention those who have died in the war and remember the end of the war, then it would be perfectly logical to put the flowers on 8 May. We are in Europe, so we live after European time, not after Moscow time. That is the first point. The second aspect of this celebration. A very large part of it is glad to come to drink snippets, eat scabbards and watch the straw, and the prescribed limit can be fully achieved by the binding rules of the respective municipality. The law here... There is no law in reality here. One more thing. If we look at the content of this proposal as a whole, then... the proposal refers to the prohibition of symbolism. Let us now be honest, fellow Members, there are people who have come together, have come up with ords that have not earned any order; they have been bought in all the rooms, in the pubs and in all the other places. Therefore, the use of this symbol is not at all rational in nature. This, by the way, is already provided for by the law prohibiting the use of Nazi and Soviet symbols. Whereas this proposal is included 3. - in the Commission's proposal, I call this time (Dep. (A. Neighbourhood sub-scenario) ... Yeah, so actually... Oh, then in any... I'm sorry, yeah, that's... The Commission's proposal therefore... The Head of the Commission shall also specify... In any case, proposal No 3, colleagues, is welcome. Thank you. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Thank you!” ; intermediate statement: “It’s right!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U71	Colleagues, we shall continue the debate. I remind you that we are debating 3. - a proposal from the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U72	Hello, colleagues! I will begin my speech on May 9 with one quote: “This place will make a peremog nad Nazism? Oh, my God. A pro ii line of marmot.’ This quote is from President Volodimir Zelensk of Ukraine last year's speech and appeal to his people. You could open at present YouTube and watch this speech. It's not short, but it's not long. In his speech Volodimir Zelenski as President of Ukraine (interim call.) standing, and he has portraits of Ukrainians who participated in the Second World War. He says it was a memory that... He also calls it a peremog, and he clearly speaks not of 8 May, but of 9 May. He says it's a perimeter paid by eight million Ukrainians... their lives. When you are talking about May 9, you must strictly distinguish whether it's a celebration, or whether it's a marking... and what exactly this day is about. It is what Zelenski talks about. — Dep. A. Neighbours: “Zelenskis is the one who said it?” ) ( Dep. A. Neighbours: “Does it both work? I was also disturbed... You're all doing this... “; between calls. ” ... Sometimes men can be really weak, but President of Ukraine Volodimir Zelenski is a very strong man who is not afraid to say what he said on 9 May last year. ( Internouncing call.) These were also 130 Latvian strife soldiers who took part in the Second World War, yes, in the rows of the Red Army, but... Thanks to which it was also (Dep. S. Riekstins: “During the sitting of the Saeima... “) combating Nazism. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “What are you talking about?” ) And now the words about the prohibition of concerts, scabbards, wobbles, vodka, and so on (Interface.) ... those words shame all those who live in this country and who come to the monument in Riga on 9 May, for example. You could remember last year when there was a pandemic. Was there something like that? You really don't remember that? People came and quietly put the flowers at the monument, that was all. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “After two days they collected their manure!” ; between: “Tri!” ) All I would like to say is thank you to the proposer, because this debate has finally begun. ( Milestones.) And we must all remember what has happened in World War II and think about where exactly you are in those days. Would it really be for all those who sit here, for example, in the Kurelians' ranks, in the 1800 soldiers who can only be called those who consistently fought for Latvia's independence during the Second World War. Only those 1,800 people. It is therefore very good that this debate has begun. This is a debate for our entire society, which is still ahead of us. I thank Mr Judina for his adequate explanation of this, proposal 3, but I call for it not to vote at all and to trust the people of Latvia, who consider it their duty to come and mention all those who have fallen into the fall of Nazism on 9 May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U73	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U74	Hello, colleagues! I would also like to remind you that we are talking about proposal 3 and not very much about everything. This proposal, thirdly, does not, of course, make a direct reference to 9 May. So I don't even understand the arguments why someone is calling for a 'no' vote, because what are we talking about? We are talking about the fact that the Nazi and Communist regimes must not be praised. This proposal is about not using stylistic symbols that identify military aggression and war crimes. This is linked to what is currently happening in Ukraine. If someone votes against... and I would also like to call for a vote in favour... both on this proposal and on the proposal... Then what do you support? Let the streets of Riga now be driven by the letters “Z” and “V”? Here we are not talking about World War II; World War II was. And those who fought against Nazism are everywhere in Europe: they are Germans themselves, they are French, they are English, they are Russians - they are many, many nations. But we mix everything in one foam here and now try to justify some kind of... and even to say that we should vote against... In order to be able to ride around the streets of Riga and elsewhere in Latvia, supporters of Putin's fascist regime with the symbols “V” and “Z” and other symbols? We do not want this because they, Putin and the Russian fascist regime, are now killing people in Ukraine. World War II is something else. And if we're talking about this monument of occupation, what's going on there and those who praise it... All kinds of speeches... And the people with the hordes... Real soldiers have been dead for a long time. They had already died while I went to school. There were still some good ones who could come with a cruise in the 1970s or 1980s. So that this proposal, where... I will remind you, by the way, this draft law has also been tabled by the Union of Greens/Farmers, and thank you to all Members who support and move forward. I will also remind you that it is not a matter of saying that someone cannot go somewhere to put flowers, but cannot go to put flowers under the Russian flag or the symbol “V” and “Z” and say that the fact that we were occupied is that it is not true; that it freed us. We, Latvia, are not released. We remember that Latvia was occupied! And on May 9... When did the celebration begin? In 1965. It has nothing to do with World War II at all. It was a measure introduced by the Soviet time, the occupation regime, to praise the occupation. There is no need for 9 May. If we want to mention the victims of the Nazi regime or those who fought against the Nazi regime, it must be done with respect and not on 9 May, which is the regime of Soviet aggression, occupation... Date. And all the more important it is to understand it now, at this time, when people die in Ukraine because of the Russian fascist regime. I therefore call on all Members to vote unanimously in favour of this proposal and in favour of the whole draft law so that we will end this, I would say that, in the case of the fascist island bars in Riga. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U75	Dear Members and honourable Members, It is time for the next sitting to cease. The debate on proposal 3 will continue after 11 a.m. Please register the Members. Name Inese Voika to read the results of the Members' registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U76	Colleagues! Not registered: Dagmara Beitnere–Le Galla, Aigars Bikše, Aldis Blumbergs, Ivans Klementjevs, Maris Mičerevskis, Ināra Mūrniece, Inguna Ribena, Karina Sprūde, Lubova Švecova and Zenta Tretjaka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U77	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U78	Dear Members, Honourable Members! Please take your seats in the Saeima sitting room. We shall continue to discuss the agenda of the ordinary sitting of the Saeima on 31 March. Before the break, we started to examine the second, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Security of Public Entertainment and Holiday Events”. The draft law has been declared urgent. A debate was opened on 3. - a proposal from the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. Member Sergey Dolgopolov took part in the next debate. Please, you have a name. ( The drug is noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U79	Thank you, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, No matter how paradoxical it is, today's debate is very similar to the praising of the Nazi and Communist regime. We have just heard the words that all of us, as one, should support proposal 3. Before it was said we should ban it, we should permit it... that people must celebrate victory in World War II, not on 9 May, but on 8 May, although, to be honest, World War II ended on 3 September 1945. What is it? We are talking about what can be celebrated, what cannot be celebrated, what can be noted, what cannot be celebrated. Was it a major task for the law when it was drafted? I don't think so. Authors when installing... this law had thought a bit about something else. They had thought about how to ensure order in public events, they thought about... If there is a debate, the debate should be continued by words, not by stabbing or otherwise, that it must not be too bad to drink sniff during public events, to eat a wobble or something else. Maybe. It is a matter of taste, but yet it is a matter of order. Today we are talking about something quite different. We are talking about what symbols are allowed, what are not. If we do not take into account the definition of the Nuremberg Tribunal, then everything else is a fantasy of the local legislative authorities and an opportunity to initiate and capture. That's the first thing I wanted to say. I think there should be proportionality and common sense. That's the point one. Two points. Every person has his own belief, his own view of life. One thing is that he is sticking to those beliefs, to the understanding of life, to another thing that he is trying to put it in and dictate to others, no matter which side it comes from, with what beautiful purposes and purposes it has been given, because it is already a restriction on human freedoms. That's a point two. Three points. I think that the people it cares about are far smarter than the co-legislator. A lot smarter. A lot more reasonable. Many think differently than the legislator. That is why I think it is important to turn to reason here too, not to emotions. And the last one. There was a writer in Russia named Kozma Prutkov. He was a combination of three writers who had very interesting, sharp and precise expressions. One of them sounded that urgency is necessary when only fleas are caught. And that's nothing about legislation. This draft law seems not to me to be particularly well thought out - as a matter of urgency. This could be the beginning of the debate, but not the end. I call for this draft law not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U80	Thank you. Dear Members, honourable Members, I would remind you that the current epidemiological requirements state that we use masks here in the Saeima's meeting room, also from the Saeima's tribunal, when we take part in the debate. So please all of you, use the masks! Thank you. We are continuing the debate. The name is Sandy Riekstin.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U81	Hello, colleagues! There is nothing in this proposal about 9 May, but the previous speakers (mostly all) spoke about 9 May, so I would like to respond to my colleagues. First of all, I am ashamed that in the Latvian Parliament there is a person coming up in a tribunal who snuffs the nose at the Latvian flag and tells us what to do or what to do. Even more - quite openly threatened by unrest. I am ashamed that a Member is coming up on the platform, who, even during the sitting of the Saeima on 9 May, ran to kiss this concrete pillar. It is no secret that the drink of 9 May is the purest act of the SACU-EELFICIENT, so I have a call for Members of SACU: the smallest thing you can do right now - just to listen to. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U82	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U83	Colleagues, we see that in Ukraine, in 2022, horrendous crimes are committed - war crimes and crimes against humanity. The city of Mariupol has actually been destroyed, and Harkiv and Chernihiva are in ruins. The situation is very similar to that in Latvia between 1940 and 1945, when the same Russian occupations committed both crimes... both war crimes and crimes against humanity. As a result of this war crimes, 95 percent of Jelgava’s city was completely destroyed, just like Mariupole. 80 percent of Rezekne was destroyed as a result of the activities of the USSR bombers. It is absurd that something could be celebrated about the crimes committed by the Russian occupations. I am not saying anything about preserving the memory of soldiers in the cemetery or preserving the memory of soldiers in the official Russian Federation, but here is Latvia, and there is no place in Latvia to praise such Russian occupations, the USSR and the Russian armed forces. I support this proposal, as well as the next proposal on setting specific distances. I also really call on both the Public Prosecutor's Office and the State Security Service to pay particular attention to the statements made by individual Members of the Saeima, including those who... Welcome to Mr Kabanova, who in 2005 made the film Baltic Nazism, which went by name... With the Kremlin's narratives, which are currently being used against the Ukrainian people... and, if necessary, warn and continue to ban the support of political parties - about the praise of the USSR and Russia - and so on. We have to pull this border somewhere, and this border is very clear: either you are with Latvia or you are against Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U84	Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U85	Thank you, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, thanks must be given to Andrejs Judin, who drew at least my attention to the specific wording contained in proposal 3. The question arises: is the honour of the Red Army soldiers a measure aimed at praising the totalitarian Communist regime? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) The Soviet... Forgive me, honoring the Red Army soldiers? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) I think not. I'm going on, I'm going on. ( Internouncing call.) I have to thank Boris Cilevičs for his explanation of such a product as “an event containing the ideology of the regime”. Is the release of Latvia from the Histlers an event containing the ideology of the Communist regime? ( Interface: ‘ That’s it! ’) ) The release of Latvia from the Histlers is not a story of communist ideology. , it is about soldiers who served and fought in the Red Army on the territory of Latvia at the same time as Western allies who freeed Western Europe together. At the same time, is this event an ideological event of the Communist regime? ( Internouncing call.) I believe that there is definitely no one. I think that this raven, which was commissioned to us by the commission responsible, will be a great challenge for the municipalities that will want to examine in future the specific applications that they will receive, and not only on 9 May, but on any calendar day. I believe that this proposal is a legal factor, even more so: it is very wide-ranging. Honoring Latvian Legioners is praising the Nazi regime or not? I don't think so. I will continue: does the Latvian Legionaire... service, warring on the German side of the army is an event that contains the ideology of the Nazi regime? ( Internouncing call.) I think this is not such an event, but if we apply this proposal directly and literally, I find it hard to look... and understand how, for example, the head of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia, the Presidium or individual politicians will later put flowers in the graves of Latvian legionaries in Lesten. Will it not be that (interim.) the same linear, applicable to such or such, will produce an effect, a result that no one wants in this hall. ( Internouncing call.) However, I call on this brother to be returned to the commission responsible, but if it is put to the vote, it will still be 'no'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U86	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U87	Dear colleagues, Ladies and gentlemen! First, such a small replica of what has been heard today on May 8 and 9, the true date of the end of World War II. I would like to remind all of us that the Second World War in Europe (which is better than we should remember!) did not end on 8 or 9 May. This ended in 1991 when the Soviet Union collapsed. This is the right day, the events that we should celebrate together with 18 November and 4 May. May 8 also had a celebration in a democratic Europe, on which we did not receive an invitation for almost half a century, a celebration on which we did not even remember. So I also ask you to remember what our President, Vaira Vike-Freiberga, said at the Prague Summit in 2002, when we received an invitation to join NATO. That is exactly what she reminded Bush, all the leaders of Europe... Blair and the rest. She reminded us of Tehran and Yalta of the betrayal against us. All other dates are dates on which we were an object of history, not an object. It's about what's heard today. The proposal and these amendments. I also believe, like many others, that Section 74.1 of the Criminal Law of Latvia, in fact Section 81.1 of the Criminal Law, clearly tells everything and in fact gives a clear mandate to act on our law enforcement institutions and also on the courts. But we obviously have problems with interpretation of courts and institutions. If these problems exist, they must be resolved. That is what we are trying to do today. Whether everything is grammatically correct and all is figured up to a millimetre, I am not sure, but I certainly call for support. If we need something, let us make sure that we correct something later, but we must send out a clear signal that what is written in the Criminal Law is feasible now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U88	The name of the Member, John Isal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U89	Hello, colleagues! I am listening to the debate on this proposal... And in fact, over the last month... on your part, and I feel that the National Association has taken over the Saeima. Only some of them are still opposed. ( Internouncing call.) We are ready - we are ready today! - voting in favour of prohibiting the celebration of 9 May. A year ago, would anyone other than the National Association (Maybe the UKP) have been willing to support it? ( Internouncing call.) Doubt. Today, even some members of the congregation are ready to invite. — Insight. 9 May celebrations... Don't celebrate. And only separately (interim.) Also members of this hall (individually, not all) still live after Moscow's time. I also call on some of the remaining Members of the Saeima who still live after Moscow time to watch the clock and start living after Latvian time. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. B. Cilevičs: “We need to learn how to listen... “ The fact that the majority of the Saeima is ready to implement many of the National Alliance’s regulations with lateness, but yet... It's natural. 10 years ago, the National Association was the only party that supported the transition to Latvian only in all schools. Even at the moment, there is no particular opposition to it. Progress is and the National Alliance programme is being implemented. We will soon also demolish the "stop of victory" in Pārdaugava. That's what I'm sure of. And the Commission on Foreign Affairs (interim.) it has already been asked by the Ministry of Justice to seek legal solutions to dismantle this pillar. And we'll take it down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U90	Mr. Neighbours, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U91	On behalf of the Commission, I call for air to be drawn and blowed up... The Commission has supported this proposal. Please support the Saeima 3. - a proposal from the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U92	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - the proposal submitted by the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U93	Thank you, colleagues. 4. - Commission proposal. This is a editorial proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U94	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U95	Thank you. 5. - a proposal from the committee responsible. This is also a editorial proposal. The third sentence of the second paragraph of Article 7 of the Law shall be clarified. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U96	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U97	Thank you. 6. - The proposal from Members Linda Mednes and Artus Neighbins. The Commission has partially supported and included 7. - the proposal drawn up by the Commission. For the sake of the verbatim report, I will remind you of the substance of the proposal. The seventh paragraph of Article 7 of the Law on the Safety of Public Entertainment and Holiday Events shall specify the cases in which the organizers of the event shall not be granted an authorisation for organising the event. The current version only defines the situations in which this prohibition applies to a border area or a border area. However, in practice of the application of law, it has been proved that the organization of events near the Soviet army on the territory of Latvia, the victory of its soldiers and memorial monuments... that they are also sensitive measures in the context of Article 6.1 of this Law on the development and harmonisation of a safety plan for a high risk measure. In order to reduce sensitive situations in the organisation of events, it is proposed not to allow the organisation of events “close to 200 meters from any of the Soviet armies or its soldiers’ victories and memorial monuments in the territory of Latvia”. On behalf of the Commission, I would like to make it clear that this proposal, 6, has been editorially amended and the next one, the proposal 7, has written this version... This includes the following words: ‘whether the planned measure is being carried out’. Such words shall be added to the relevant supported proposal. This proposal, 6th, has been partly supported and incorporated 7. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U98	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U99	Dear President, Honourable Members! Both the 6th and 7th proposals are very good, but... with one remark: one small word missing in these proposals. It says that “more than 200 meters from any Soviet army in Latvia or the victory of its soldiers or a memorial monument” cannot organize events. Then, as I understand, it follows from this text (and the Commission has not observed it!) that in Latvia many famous monuments of the Soviet armies will remain forever. It could also be seen as an invitation: you will give sweet, Soviet monuments, you will stay here forever, but you will not be able to approach more than 200 meters. I think that the word that is missing there is to be "extorted" and that it would be right to say that not more than 200 meters from any Soviet army or a commemorative monument of its soldiers, which has not yet been blown up in the territory of Latvia, should not make any events. You see, there's a very dubious situation here. U.S. President Baden said that the sanctions could be reduced by reducing the intensity of the attacks. So, if... and we will not deny that the murders that have been committed in Mariupol (more than 5000 people have been killed there for this time - this is what the legal successor of the same Red Army has done!) , is one of the reasons why we are discussing these proposals today. And then... I think if the sanctions now start to be reduced, then... What? We will correct and say that it is not 200 metres away, but 150 metres away, because then we will also need to mitigate some sanctions. And then, 100 meters? And finally we're going to move to 50 meters? No, ladies and gentlemen! I think it is clear and bright to say: there will be no outstanding monument of the Soviet army in Latvia. And - not only is there no outstanding monument of the Soviet army, but also none of the 300 different places of the Soviet memorial, including eight streets of Viļa Lāčs, different... Let's say, Marta Riekstas Street in Madona... Or Andreja Upīša Street... But in this way... it turns out that we will not approach the monument in Kisezer or approach the Skulte plane that is still on the pedestal, or the base of the Jēkabpils cannon that has not yet been demolished, or the monument of Pārdaugava... and so on. If we are serious, colleagues, here to refer to some 9 May is completely out of place, because we all know that the monument is a pillar of each empire with a reminder: you must celebrate the empire here and remember that this empire will be restored early or late. There's no other motive for anyone... such memorial sites. And to honor the murderer's army, which killed 5,000 people in Mariupolis, by deliberately destroying residential districts?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Honoring the murderer's army, which killed tens of thousands of people, with the complete destruction of Grozny?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Honoring a murderer army that has completely destroyed Aleppo city and deliberately shoots missiles against living quarters?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You, Members of SASKAN, will not deny that it is an army of murderers; that this army of murderers raped more than two million women in Kaliningrad; that in Latvia this army of murderers stole and took off bicycles, watches, engaged in rapes. And we say, but we can't... You know, Soviet veterans feel offended... There are some 200,000 people in Latvia who have suffered, whose relatives have been expelled, who have died in Siberia, who have died against these Stalins... killer gangs. They don't see any feelings when they see this porch at Pardaugava?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We're coming... a pity Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which... ignores the agreement signed in 2007 between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the status of Latvian burials on the territory of the Russian Federation and the status of Russian burials on the territory of the Republic of Latvia. For its part, Russia has signed that memorial buildings are just such memorials as part of burials. What kind of burial is there, Pardaugava, forgive me? Or was there a death penalty and some war criminals hanged? So it turns out you're honoring them? There's no reference... and there is no need for any reference to the 1994 treaties on the withdrawal of Russian troops from here, because Russia itself has signed what memorial structures are... And if there's something...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U100	Mr. Kirstein, time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U101	... contradictions in some documents, then usually refers to the last law. That's why I'm saying again...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U102	Mr. Kirstein, time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U103	We are voting on this, but one word is missing there - to blow up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U104	The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U105	Dear colleagues, Unlike the previous speaker, I will talk about proposals 6 and 7. I see three problems here. First. In fact, its current provision is aimed at preventing threats, security threats. And it really is about the border and border zone. Why do we have to put on a completely different situation, not about security threats, but about some symbolic thing? This is also not logical from a purely legal point of view. I think it would be right to do so: a new part should be created, and then it could be discussed more logically. But here... it is simply misleading. Second moment. Here again we are facing the same problem - with meaning. What is the praise of the memory of soldiers? The memory can be saved, the memory can be maintained. To praise a memory? Well, once again I find it hard to judge, I don't have the Latvian language as my mother tongue, but... I really find it hard to understand what is meant here. However, if memory is not praised but simply preserved, does this ban apply to this situation? So that's the rule again, somehow... is very dubious. And the third. This really is about memorial sites. And I want to remind you that very many Latvian citizens, the people of Latvia, died in the fight against the Nazis. Here Mr Kirstein said a great deal about the crimes of the Communist and Stalin regimes, and he did not mention the fact that the Nazis, let us say so, were not better. And that's unfortunately the trend... The tragedy of Latvia's history - that both criminal regimes caused very serious damage and took a lot of life away. But the political fashion is that we now only mention Communist crimes. ( Internouncing call.) What, though, should we do to those for whom our ancestors, their grandparents, died in the fight against the Nazis? They're worse, they're wrong? We're gonna stop them from keeping a memory of their ancestors? ( Internouncing call.) And what is the purpose of this proposed amendment? All right, this is Mr. Neighbour, when discussing one of the previous amendments, he said that it should be forbidden... Okay, in this situation, we don't ban it at all, but we're predicting this distance of 200 metres. How, then, will this be put into practice? I think the police will take a distance of 200 meters, there will be... There'll be some room there... and then each individual will go and put down flowers. What's going to change? Colleagues, let's talk in open language! The only purpose of this proposal is to humiliate those people who have been killed by the ancestors in the fight against Nazism. Well, that is, I can't see any other goal here, because it will absolutely eliminate nothing. Just make it difficult for the lives of those people to humiliate those people... Will this help you to cope with such sentiments... Is Russia good? I think that will achieve exactly the opposite result. So, just... in spite of them... Let's make their life even more difficult? This is a very difficult and painful process for many people who identify themselves with Russian culture. And that... Well, I don't think that humiliation will really help these people to understand their new reality and understand that, unfortunately, the country to which they are very important... from the cultural point of view, from the point of view of cultural heritage... became the same actually aggressive, Nazi state. But with humiliation, with power we will not help these people on the contrary. I call for a 'no' vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U106	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U107	Dear President, Honourable Members! I was extremely interested in the Nazi monuments in Latvia, which were treated differently than Communist monuments. It may be that the honorable Mr. Cilevič will explain where they have these Nazi monuments. I do not remember, and I have not heard, that in the European Union... For example, a Gestapo memorial day would be celebrated in Germany or Latvia. But in Russia still marks the Day of Czechs! Mr. Cilevič must have heard nothing about it. Thus, the nail pulping facility from which the Germans learned to install concentration camps continues to mark their anniversary. I've never seen a monument here to either Hitler or Hitler. Russia is still full of Stalin's monuments! In Russia still not only honors the Soviet army this... May 9, not only notes the cheques of various anniversaryes, but also does not in any way trembulate, as I said when humiliating the rest of the nations. And this ideology of Nazism or fascism we hear in the speech of the President of Russia, who says that the Ukrainians are not a nation at all (Intermination.) , it is a Russian nation, like the Belarusians. And this embarrassment about denacification, about the fight against fascism - this is the classic ideology of the Kremlin, repeated by Mr. Cilevičs and telling something, insulting the Latvian people that we have here the same attitude towards Nazi monuments as against Communist monuments. I think that the Saeima's Committee on Mandate, Ethics and Application will have to deal with this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U108	The name to Member Boris Cilevič for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U109	Dear colleagues, Dear Mr. Kirstein! I've known for a long time that it's not a work of mind - to discuss with you. You have just told me that I am distributing some information about the fact that there are monuments of fascists in Latvia or... What did you say... Would you not be so kind to provide any evidence? Is it the same... Well, do you crave? You insulted me very seriously. And if you have, as you say, the honour of a man, man and Member, please prove your insults with concrete facts or at least admit that you have lied. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. (A. Kirštein’s intermediate call.) You don't have to apologize. I'll be quite enough for you to apologize from the same platform and... You don't even have to apologize, just admit you lied. ( Internouncing call.) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U110	The debate is closed. Mr. Neighbours, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U111	Thank you, colleagues, for the debate. Once again, we are talking about 6. - a proposal from Members Linda Mednes and Artus Neimina. This is partly supported by the next proposal - 7.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U112	Do Members have objections? Are Members in agreement with the Commission's decision? Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U113	Thank you. Looking at the next seven. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The debate has just begun its course here, and I will not repeat... The previous proposal is therefore put together in a editorial form: ‘the planned measure is being organised’. In the Commission, proposal 7 has been supported. Please have a debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U114	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U115	Dear colleagues, For us, the proposals are moving at such a high speed... After the... A few questions were asked to us - right for me. I would like answers to the verbatim record so that those who apply the law have greater clarity. One of the questions was: “But what if it’s not about such memorial events, it’s about entertainment, if someone wants to ski, dandot and so on?” I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Article 5 of the law contains the second paragraph, which states that no authorisation is required if the measures are organised by the State or the municipality. Then the measures will be possible, there is no problem here. Another question I was asked was: ‘ Do you want to ban 200 meters? So 250 meters will be allowed?’ No, because the municipality has to consider the application, and it may also be possible to prohibit or refuse the application at another distance. The substance of this proposal is different: that 200 meters away... There is no discussion, there is simply no authorisation. But this does not mean that an authorisation should be given if the distance is greater. I want these legal matters to remain in the vernacular. I call for this proposal to be supported, because it is good. And we are organising the discussion exactly then... Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U116	The name of Member Linda Medne.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U117	Colleagues! This proposal is, by its very nature, the one that has been drafted by the Conservatives, the slightly revised one that has been tabled by me and the Member, Mr Kaimiņa - proposal 6. This proposal is, by its very nature, a solution to the wartime. This has been designed to prevent the pro-cremic forces from using a creative approach to justify provocative measures as effectively as possible. The proposal is to ensure that other similar measures are not found in place of 9 May, as if innocuously promoting and praising the USSR army and Nazi ideology at local or international level. This proposal is intended to prevent the event of victory at the festival site on 9 May or to avoid becoming an international “Pobeda Latvian Song and Dance Festival”. It is only proportionate to support this proposal at a time when we are at the highest risk, at a time when every provocation can allow a real national threat to develop. I would like to thank Dāvis Stalts, Member of Riga City Council, as well as Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice Ilona Kronbergs for his contribution to the creation of these two proposals. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U118	I closed the debate. Mr. Neighbours, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U119	On behalf of the Commission, please support proposal 7.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U120	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - the proposal drawn up by the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U121	Thank you, colleagues. 8 / 8 - a proposal from the committee responsible. This is a technical proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U122	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U123	And the last one is 9. - a proposal from the committee responsible. This is about appropriate fines. The proposal is supported by the Commission. ( The utterances: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U124	Members call for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - the proposal of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -67, against -15, abstaining - not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U125	Colleagues, we have examined all the proposals for this draft law. Please support the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Security of Public Entertainment and Holiday Events” in the second, final reading!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U126	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Security of Public Entertainment and Holiday Events"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -69, against -15, abstaining - not. The law is passed. The next item is the draft law on civil union, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U127	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 8 March prior to the first reading, the draft law “Law on Civil Union” (No. 1380 Lp13). On 12 November 2020, the Constitutional Court adopted a judgment in the case No. 2019-33-01 “On Compliance of Section 155(1) of the Labour Law with the First Sentence of Article 110 of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia”, which recognizes Section 155(1) of the Labour Law, insofar as it does not provide protection and support for the mother partner of the child due to the birth of the child, as contrary to the first sentence of Article 110 of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia and invalid as from 1 June 2022. The Constitutional Court has indicated that the first sentence of Article 110 of the Satversme contains two duties of the legislator: to ensure legal protection of the family, as well as to ensure social and economic protection and support of the family. The duty of the legislator to ensure the legal protection of the family requires the establishment of a legal framework for family relations in social reality, namely to regulate the personal and property relations of the members of that relationship. In turn, the obligation to provide social and economic protection and support to the family can be fulfilled by the legislator by specifying family law and special protection and support, namely by providing for different measures for family protection and support. Both the duties of the legislator arising from the first sentence of Article 110 of the Satversme are closely interrelated. If the State does not provide legal protection of the family, i.e. does not lay down the legal framework for family relations, it is not possible to ensure to the participants of this relationship the social and economic rights included in the first sentence of Article 110 of the Satversme. Article 85 of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia grants the Constitutional Court the right to declare laws or parts thereof invalid. In the event of non-compliance with a legal provision of a higher legal force resulting from the absence of a legal framework, although the State is under an obligation to establish such a regulation, the court shall give a judgment establishing the existing resolution, in so far as it contains a defect, as incompatible with a legal provision of a higher legal force. Such rulings are, in fact, the judgments of the appeal, by which the Constitutional Court indicates to the legislator the need to introduce resolution, which arises from the Satversme. In accordance with the principle of the legal state, the finding of the Constitutional Court that an act is incompatible with the legal norms of a higher legal force, requires the parties to take measures to eliminate the consequences of unlawfulness of the act. Section 32(2) of the Constitutional Court Law provides that the judgement of the Constitutional Court and its interpretation of the relevant legal norm are mandatory for all state and municipal institutions (including courts) and officials, as well as natural and legal persons. It follows that the legislator does not have the discretion to choose whether to provide legal protection for the actual spouses, including same-sex couples. For the purpose of executing the judgment of the Constitutional Court in the case No. 2019-33-01 The Ministry of Welfare has developed appropriate amendments to Article 155 of the Labour Law, which provides for the addition of a new paragraph 1.1 of Article 155 of the Labour Law, stating: if the paternity of the child is not recognised, then another person who is not the mother of the child has the right to 10 working days of leave in order to engage in child care at the request of the mother of the child. When analysing the wording of the draft legal act, it can be concluded that the new Section 155, 1.1, part of the Labour Law provides for the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 12 November 2020 in the case No. 2019-33-01 to a minimum level, i.e. only for the type of leave concerned. The amendments made do not solve the problem identified by the Constitutional Court that according to the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights Article 8 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms should be interpreted as meaning that it also covers and protects relations between same-sex partners, regardless of the fact that the State does not provide mechanisms for legal recognition of such relations. Article 8 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms provides that everyone has the right to the inviolability of their private and family life, apartment and correspondence. Public authorities shall not prevent anyone from enjoying this right, except in cases provided for by law and necessary in a democratic society for the protection of the interests of public security, public order or public welfare, for the purpose of preventing disorder or crime, for the protection of health or morals, or for the protection of the rights and freedoms of others. As early as 10 October 2018, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Resolution 2239 on private and family life called on the Council of Europe to harmonise its constitutional and regulatory laws and policies on same-sex partners. The case law of the European Court of Human Rights in this area would also ensure that same-sex partners have access to a specific legal framework ensuring that their unions are recognised and protected. The Constitutional Court has indicated that the obligation arising from the first sentence of Article 110 of the Satversme to protect every family means that the legislator has no discretion to choose whether the same-sex partners must ensure legal protection, as well as economic and social protection and support. However, the legislator enjoys a degree of discretion in defining the form and content of the legal framework for family relations and in choosing methods, mechanisms and measures to ensure social and economic protection and support of the family. This discretion is not unlimited. The legislator shall have the right to establish a legal framework for the protection and support of the family, based on objective and reasonable criteria, taking into account the specific nature of these relations, including the differences between the members and situations of these relationships, which requires the provision of an appropriate legal framework for family relations and measures for the social and economic protection and support of the family. Article 21 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union prohibits any form of discrimination, including discrimination based on sex, race, colour, ethnic or social origin, genetic features, language, religion or belief, political or any other opinion, membership of a national minority, property, origin, disability, age or sexual orientation. Article 14 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms also prohibits discrimination. Article 91 of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia provides that all people in Latvia are equal before the law and court; human rights are implemented without any discrimination. The Constitutional Court concluded that it is not compatible with the principle of human dignity that one person's respect could be less valuable than another's respect. The principle of human dignity prevents a State from refusing to grant fundamental rights to a certain person or group of persons. In society, existing stereotypes cannot serve as a constitutionally justified basis for denying or restricting the fundamental rights of a particular person or group of persons in a democratic legal state. The Constitutional Court indicated that, according to the principle of human dignity, the state must equally respect those members of society who, by their nature, form personal relations with the representatives of their sex, as well as respect the fact that a family may be formed on the basis of these relations. Accordingly, the first sentence of Article 110 of the Satversme, in conjunction with the principle of human dignity and the right of a person to respect privacy, establishes the obligation of the State to protect and support the same-sex partners as well. On the other hand, in case No. The Constitutional Court underlined that human dignity must be respected not only formally, but in essence. Therefore, in line with the principle of human dignity, the legal framework for the protection and support of every family should be meaningful. A legal framework that would only provide formal recognition for the same-sex family but would not provide protection and support would, in essence, mean recognition of the same-sex family as an irrelevant family form and thus constitute a violation of human dignity. The Latvian legal norms also establish different treatment of persons of different genders who have chosen to form a joint household, for example, according to the concept of "home" laid down in Section 1 paragraph 40 of the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance, several persons who live in the same housing and jointly bear expenses or one person, who owns separately. Consequently, the criteria set for receiving social assistance for the living of a single household are the existence of a common housing and the common costs of maintaining it. In essence, that provision applies both to persons of the same sex and to persons of different sexes, and they are not obliged to register their relations in order to receive assistance covering a very wide range of persons, such as relatives. Thus, social assistance in Latvia is provided by evaluating the relationship between the persons actually living in the household, regardless of whether they are formally registered. In other legal acts, the status of relations and their registration have been granted decisive importance, for example, the incentives provided for in Section 13(1)(1) of the Law “On Personal Income Tax” to the taxpayer regarding only spouses or the right of the tenant to place the spouse in the dwelling area as provided for in Section 14(1) of the Law on the Rental of Accommodations, before informing the lessor in writing thereof, apply only to the spouses. Similarly, a number of other legal provisions deal with the social and economic protection of spouses. It must therefore be concluded that persons of the same or different sex who have not formally registered their relationship, either because such registration is not possible or because they do not wish to marry, do not enjoy adequate legal protection under the law. At the same time, the State has provided some protection to persons who choose not to register marriage or to establish same-sex relations, while protecting the rights of the person vulnerable in specific legal relations, for example, according to the regulation of the Criminal Procedure Law, also in case of same-sex couples union, persons have guaranteed the right not to testify to a relative. Closer persons within the meaning of the Criminal Procedure Law are the person himself, the compatible person, the spouse, the parent, the child, the grandparent, the grandson, the brother and the sister, as well as the person with whom the natural person concerned lives together and with whom he has a common holding. Similarly, the regulation of the Civil Procedure Law on temporary protection against violence provides that this mechanism of protection may also be used by same-sex couples. A criminal law shall provide as a aggravating circumstance for the commission of a criminal offence against a person with whom the offender is or has been in a permanent intimate relationship or against a person with whom the offender has a common holding. Thus, separate legal provisions provide for mechanisms for the protection of the different forms of cohabitation of persons, while respecting the right of those who form them to respect privacy. Also several draft laws with amendments to legal norms, such as the abovementioned amendments to Article 155 of the Labour Law and related amendments to the Law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance”, provide that a person who, at the child’s mother’s request, is involved in child care, if the child’s paternity paternity is not recognised, continues to have the right to paternity benefit, the practice of dealing with fragmentaryly with the social and economic protection of persons who have chosen other forms of cohabitation as opposed to marriage. However, the Constitutional Court has recognised that the right of same-sex partners to use certain mechanisms provided for in regulatory enactments, which, moreover, is applicable in specific situations, cannot be considered as the legal framework of family relations between same-sex partners and they do not provide social and economic protection of same-sex partners. The Constitutional Court has indicated that the legislator has not established the legal framework of same-sex relations and has not provided for measures of social and economic protection and support of same-sex partners, thus failed to fulfil the positive obligation resulting from the first sentence of Article 110 of the Satversme to ensure legal, social and economic protection of the same-sex partners’ family as well. Taking into account that amendments to certain legal norms, such as the abovementioned amendments to the Labour Law, cannot achieve the task given to the legislator of the Constitutional Court for the judgment of the Constitutional Court in cases No. 2019-33-01 and 2020-34-03 could be implemented by nature, i.e. ensuring legal, economic and social protection for all families, a draft law on Civil Union. Continuing to work on couples living outside marriage - irrespective of their sexual orientation - the legal framework of personal and property relations, it is concluded that the legislator can ensure the right to family life in several ways, including the possibility for individuals to conclude a civil union. It should be borne in mind that individuals can form - and make up in reality - different personal unions, creating joint households, so they are less vulnerable than others, because the country has no opportunity to see these people. That is, there is no information available to the State that those associations exist. In addition, any associations of persons, if they exist, need legal protection. Based on the experience of Western European countries, one of the instruments for the protection of people living in unregistered relationships is to provide legal protection to long-term cohabitants, either by aligning them with marriage, or by offering alternative solutions. In this context, the draft law on civil union has been drafted which establishes a minimum legal framework for the personal and property relations of those persons' unions and provides for their registration. There is also mutual responsibility between those who form a civil union and reliance on support from the other side. Thus, every person is given the opportunity to conclude a civil union with another person with whom he or she forms a common household, regardless of any characteristic of such person, such as age, religion, sexual orientation or other. The purpose of the draft law is to ensure the protection of the rights of persons entering into a civil union and it provides for the arrangements for the conclusion and termination of the civil union of a person. Having said this, by the adoption of this Law, it will be ensured that the couples forming part of the civil unions become visible to the State if they conclude a civil union in accordance with the procedure laid down by the law, thus obtaining the minimum protection provided for by the law for mutual personal and property relations. The Legal Commission has examined and supported the draft law before the first reading. I call on my colleagues to support the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U128	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Member Mārtiņš Stein applied for the first debate. Please! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U129	Hello, very honourable chair of the sitting! Dear colleagues, Dear sitting viewers and listeners! In a legal state, judgments of the Constitutional Court must be enforced. For this time, almost 30 applications of same-sex couples for recognition of family fact have been submitted to the administrative court. If the administrative court decides that these families are to be regarded as families, then there is the question of how this law will be applied. This will be the choice of officials and the ability of officials to translate this law. If the Law on Civil Union, drawn up by the Ministry of Justice, was adopted, it would solve this problem at least in part. Let us not forget either human or emotional factors. Civil participation in Latvia has been very important in seeking greater legislative support for such regulation; this is also demonstrated by the progress made in recent years on this issue. True, between the organization of various pickets and moves... We have more than 20 years of legislative history, discussing it since the end of 1990, when the State Human Rights Office initiated further promotion of the registration of partnerships in the Saeima. The Civil Union law is a compromise between the conservative and liberal values achieved both by the rule of law and by humanity. This is a historic day in Latvia, both for humanity and for the protection of all families. The draft law is not for the benefit of a group, but for all of us. This is an opportunity to legally protect all families. Article 110 of the Satversme requires the State to protect any family and child, but protection provided by the State is currently not available to couples whose relations are not registered. The state in various ways makes the lives of these couples difficult and creates inhuman situations that these couples cannot solve. The actual spouse does not receive the right to care for his or her partner in the event of disability; the actual spouses do not receive tax relief; the actual spouses are not free to receive information and take decisions in the field of health, they cannot be inherited; they do not receive support from the state and local governments in the event of death of the spouse. Under the influence of these and similar circumstances... The state must not create obstacles for the citizens of Latvia only because they have not chosen or currently cannot formally register relations with their life partners. A study on the welfare of young people in the Baltic States in 2019 concluded that 41 percent of children are born outside of marriage. This shows a change in the role of the family in society. This figure coincides with the average of the European Union, which shows the birth rate of children outside marriage. Human rights organisations, European Union institutions, companies, non-marital couples (both same-sex and opposite-sex), non-governmental organisations, including the Movement "Citizens", Center MARTA, Latvian National Youth Association in Canada, LGBT and their friends "Mozaika", European Latvian Association, American Latvian Youth Association, European Latvian Youth Association, Latvian Young Scientists Association, Ex-President Vaira Vīķe-Freiberga, Toronto Latvian Church of Churches, AS "Friends Group", Printful, SkeptiCafe, Baltic HIV Association, Latvian Organization Psychologists Association, Latvian Youth Council, Society "Māja", Society "AGIHAS", Foundation "Art needs room", Organisation "Mothers Club", Dean of the University of Latvia, and dozens of university lecturers. Thank you very much to all NGOs for their tireless interpretation and humanity... respect for many years. And, of course, thank you very much to the Ministry of Justice for the draft law that has been drawn up. Without a full regulatory framework for the legal protection of such couples, efforts to address problems will continue through the judiciary, public initiatives and the legislator. This is also reflected in the call for same-sex couples to apply for support for the legal establishment of their family fact in December 2021. And we can already see that many same-sex couples come to court. Such families exist and artificial conception is also available to same-sex couples. Therefore, if the legislator does not act, the courts will act. And the decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union are binding on us too; they can soon oblige the State to legally protect couples who are not married. The judgments of the Constitutional Courts of 2020 and 2021 made implementation of regulation mandatory at least in a narrow sense if the State wants to preserve the principles of legal liberal democracy and in order not to create a constitutional crisis. It is also important to emphasise the need to listen to the public. Drafts of this kind have been rejected several times, four times, by the legislator and three times by the ManaBals initiatives; the last initiative on the legal protection of all families has been signed by more than 23 000 people. I would like to remind those who want to oppose by using Christian values in their rhetoric or the opposition of the Christian society of Latvia to the adoption of such a law: this draft law deals with civil union, and it provides for the right of couples before the law. Once again: the draft law deals with the regularisation of legal relations at national level. And also Archbishop of the Roman Catholic Church Stankevičs has publicly acknowledged that in Latvia there is a need for a law that solves problems, such as visiting a partner in hospital, inheritance cases, and should apply to several categories of people, not only to homosexual couples, but also to couples of different sexes living together. This law will be for everyone in Latvia. For our country, all families are equally dear and equally important. Latvia, as a democratic state, must ensure equal rights and protection for all its citizens, regardless of what they love. We must no longer discriminate against our own people, and human dignity must be respected in substance. Colleagues! I am asking for support for this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U130	The name of the Member, John Isal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U131	Good afternoon! This parliamentary term has already twice rejected an initiative of a similar content - one that is currently under consideration. For the first time it was referred to as the “Law on Members of the Life”, for the second time as an initiative to register same-sex partnerships. At present, this initiative has returned to the Saeima under the title ‘Law on Civil Union’. The change of the name has not changed the essence of the initiative – to create a marriage-like institution of law, which would be available to couples of the same sex, thus seeking to circumvent the restriction set in Article 110 of the Satversme, which prevents marriage between persons of the same sex. That is, both tried with a simple law to bypass a constitutionally established norm. In my opinion, this practice is both unethical and legally uncorrected. If someone is not satisfied with the provisions of the Constitution, it would be correct to submit amendments to the Constitution instead of trying to bypass it. The present attempt to move the idea of registration of same-sex partnerships once again has come using the judgement of the Constitutional Court of 12 November 2020 regarding Section 155 of the Labour Law, which establishes a 10-day leave for the father of the child after the birth of the child. Colleagues! If one of you has concerns about the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Court, read the draft law “Amendments to the Labour Law”, which, by the way, intends to supplement Article 155 by stating that the right to this 10-day leave is for any support person at the choice of the mother if the paternity capacity of the child is not established. This means that the problem discussed in the Constitutional Court will already be resolved by these amendments to the Labour Law and we do not need to introduce another family law institution with dubious compliance with the Satversme. In addition, it should be noted that the Civil Union law will in fact discriminate against any other person who is not in a registered partnership with the mother of the child, whereas the said amendments to the Labour Act provide that any person who, alongside his mother, actually cares for the child could qualify for this person’s status; they would be the parent’s parents, brothers, sisters or other persons. Colleagues, I call on you also to support these amendments to the Labour Act in your next readings, but not to support this discriminatory law on the Civil Union. In conclusion, I would like to quote what is said in the pre-election programme of a party. ( Internouncing call.) It wrote (I quote): “For us, marriage can only be a union between a man and a woman, as it has always been in society over time and as it is now also enshrined in our Constitution. ( Internouncing call.) As Conservatives, we do not really understand how a different union can be called marriage. Since it is possible to register a union between men and women in marriage, we believe that this does not require a special partnership institution." ( Milestones.) Colleagues! What do you think - which of the parties represented in the Saeima so formulated their promises to the voters? ( Interface: “Development / About! ”) Was it really Development / About!Is that so? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Puce: “I don’t know if!” ) That's exactly what it wasn't for Development/About! Because they promised exactly the opposite. And today, too, will probably vote in line with its promises. It is similar with the New Unity. Was it a National Association? ( The box “Yes! ”) ; methacrylics.) That would be logical, but our programme did have a slightly different wording - nuanced - when it comes to this issue. This quote comes from the programme of the New Conservative Party - to be more precise, one of their six main values, which is still above the programme, promises to voters. ( Milestones.) I call on all Members of the Saeima to vote in accordance with what you have promised your constituents, because the opposite would be a fraud against voters. Conservatives, including the National Association, will therefore vote against this bill (Dep. ( K. Feldman's intermediate call.) - according to their promises to the voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U132	The name of Member Ramona Petraviča.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U133	Colleagues! The draft law “Law on Civil Union” is a failure to perform the existing concept of marriage; it has been based on the draft law “Law on Members of the Life”, which has already been rejected. It does not prohibit same-sex relations and, above all, does not regulate the need to be faithful even in them. I am therefore convinced that such a law - in the case of this draft law - will be used to try to destroy the concept of marriage and natural family. Taking into account the best coalitions... case... and the ruling of the Constitutional Court that there are a large number of vulnerable family structures to which the legislator currently applies... unequally, the issue can be fully resolved by adjusting the Labour Law and by enabling joint households to enter into contracts and notaries to prepare mandates. Such a solution would not threaten the natural family concept and demographics of Latvia, give children the opportunity to grow up in full and natural legal families, nor would it lead to additional polarisation in society. The law on civil union will create risks: families with same-sex parents would grow up in a poor family. In my previous speech I mentioned the need for children to model their mother and father's responsibilities and actions to ensure healthy moral development. A growing child’s psyche is mature, so it is very easy to affect and traumatize. The inability to point to your dad or mom and, in the worst case, the idea that trust in relationships is not necessary would create an unnatural, wrong perception of society among children. Note that since these children will not have grown up in natural families, even if they are adults, they will never be able to adopt them intuitively. And then the next step, which will have to be supported, is surrogate mothers. Allow legal surrogates. That will certainly be so; it will be a step that will be decided by those who support such a law. The Civil Union law will also threaten the demographic situation. In view of all the above, we need to understand that children who have grown up in civil unions are likely to choose to continue. It seems logical that the presence of partners in the marriage relationship is a crucial factor for the number of children in the family, since both partners are legally loyal to each other and this creates a sense of security. Trust is not included within the scope of this Law. And the conclusion of the same-sex union is not specifically regulated. This will lead to a situation in which a civil union can be closed even without a family plan and where children are unlikely to belong. This is also reinforced by the absence of studies on the impact of the Civil Union Institute on the demographic situation in the country. In addition, the Civil Union Law polarises society. The Latvian society is already tired of a pandemic, government decisions (some of which have been deprived of job and livelihood opportunities), as well as hostilities in Ukraine. The adoption of such a law would take away the trust of the people of Latvia and create hatred, disgust and contradictions. At times of such geopolitical instability, we should think about the support and strengthening of existing natural families, not at times of cryptography of rejected draft laws. The Constitutional Court cannot impose on it to accept what has not been recorded in the Constitution. The decision of the Constitutional Court to require the legislator to apply to all families on an equal basis does not allow it to deprive families, which are already protected. At a time when children are entitled to their natural parents, the government must prioritise draft laws that strengthen them, not make them worthless. Only a stable and natural family can provide children with the necessary security, peace and morality, as well as ensure further development of the country. In a just society, adult relationships in which a child does not have to lose a family member, opinion or well-being must be prioritised, and only in natural families. At a time when the future of Latvian children may be threatened, we do not need to follow the examples of other countries blindly. Listening to the previous debate, it is not very clear why only two persons can join the civil union. We have different forms of cohabitation. In this case, there will be discrimination against those forms of cohabitation in which three or five together wish to live. In Britain, for example, a woman plans to marry her 93 - year - old chip because there is no limit to true love. Then we will discriminate against such a person with such desires? We, too, should provide her with opportunities for non-discrimination. There is very much talk here about discrimination. I would like to remind you that discrimination is visible everywhere, not against unvaccinated people. They are the lowest box, which can be discriminated against as much as you want. One of the reasons for the necessity of this law was the argument that you cannot visit a hospital partner. A person can make a mark to allow his organs to be used after death, just as simply, it can be solved by a bunch - who can visit a person in a hospital. All of these problems can be solved without breaking up the marriage institute. I call for no support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U134	We are continuing the debate. Mr Feldman, on behalf of the Conservative Group, spoke in the next debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U135	Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting! Dear colleagues! On behalf of the political group, I would like to inform you that it has always been important for Conservatives to maintain the integrity of the concept of marriage and family enshrined in the Constitution and in the Civil Law. At the same time, Conservative values include democracy and the rule of law. Democracy exists in diversity of opinion, but it is balanced by the rule of law. It is the rule of law that ensures the functioning of democracy based on legal norms, including respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. The courts are therefore given an independent power to decide fairly and in the public interest. That is why judgments are binding on everyone and enforceable regardless of what our subjective view of a given judgment or the position of our organisations is until a specific judgment is made. Failure to comply with court judgments jeopardises the common interests of people, society, the rule of law and democracy. As the rule of law deteriorates, we lose democracy, leading to the country becoming authoritarian (Internext.) and the power of the people is actually concentrated in the hands of various groups. After the Constitutional Court had adopted one judgment at the end of 2020, as well as in spring 2021, a second judgement was adopted (on taxes of the State)... until the Prime Minister issued an appropriate resolution to the Ministry of Justice to develop the relevant legal framework by 1 March of this year, we had an objective challenge. Conservatives had the challenge of creating a regulation that would not threaten conservative values, the concepts of marriage and family enshrined in the Constitution and Civil Law, while ensuring the proper functioning of the constitutional system. The parallels of the Civil Union law are in a number of countries of the European Union, and we have to accept the reality in the European Union that we will not be able to do without regulation, which also provides legal protection for the adherents of a different lifestyle. This is recalled both by the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights and - to be noted - by the Constitutional Court in a very harsh way. At the end of 2021, the Department of Administrative Cases of the Supreme Court annulled the judgement of the Administrative Regional Court and handed over a new trial in which a same-sex couple tried with the state in order to achieve that their union was legally recognised as a family. Currently there are almost 30 cases in Latvia, where same-sex couples claim to recognise them as families. It is reasonable to think that courts are waiting for a possible decision of the Saeima on this draft law before starting an uncontrolled process of formation of case-law, and this is not only expected by the courts - including the Ombudsman elected with a marginal vote in January of this year for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits” (No. 1215 (with the aim of serving possible court judgments) for the second reading a proposal providing (otherwise) for the receipt of social benefits: ‘The same rights as the spouses shall apply to persons whose relationship has been recognised as a family relationship with a court judgment’. The proposal was rejected by conservative votes. As a politician who does not want to step a second time on the same rake, I do not want us to leave things in the air so that we leave the decision to court and, moreover, we may even have a judgment that does not really match conservative values. That is why it is now necessary to create a mechanism which, without prejudice to marriage and family law, also provides legal protection for a very small number of people, while at the same time allowing us to avoid surprises and enabling us to reject any future accusations of the European Union. The issue, which is most “locked” to grow its own political capital, is unfortunately a fear - fear that families in Latvia are under threat. But is that really the case? In Estonia, where a similar solution has been working for several years, 19 thousand traditional families have been married in three years, but only 108 same-sex couples have used the law... this legal protection. 19 thousand against 108. I hope everyone heard these figures. The other thing. The Conservative is of the opinion that it is much more important to fight for, rather than - for, big families in Latvia, for large families, so that indeed we can finally experience a nation's generation, for an environment such that our emigrated families are invited to return. For ten years they have been just empty slogans. The family is the one from which we come, it forms the society in which we live. Marriage is a union between a man and a woman to form a family protected by the Civil Law of our country. The implementation of the Civil Union as a legal institution shall in no way affect the marriage and family institution as contained in the Civil Law, where the Title of Family Rights is and remains unchanged. Moreover, the bill is designed to defend the best interests of the child, and it is the best interests of the child when the property, personal relations of the child’s mother or father are protected and arranged. This draft law of the Civil Union is similar to what Pope Francisco joined in 2010 when he was still Archbishop of Buenos Aires - as a solution to protect the doctrine of the Roman Catholic Church, which does not intend to bless the same-sex couple's marriage, where it is still in sacramental order... and has been the result of the hard intellectual work of several institutions and non-governmental organisations for many months. As a graduate of the Riga Catholic Gymnasium and father of a large family, I had a unique opportunity to get acquainted with the doctrine of the Catholic Church's faith, so I joined the Pope's opinion. Of course, the groups of dissatisfied radicals will still be on both sides, but our aim is to reconcile society and make it stronger against those threats that are truly threatening our land and our country. I would like to list a few more things that distinguish this regulation from marriage if someone does not know it. So, first of all. Marriage is a social and legally recognised and economic union, including sexual, because it provides for trust, but the purpose of this law is only to establish the non-material and property rights and obligations of persons, and it is not presumed that there should be any sexual relations between the parties, there is no change in the names of the parties after the conclusion of the union, there is no provision for legal succession between the parties, because the parties to the civil union are not relatives within the meaning of the Civil Law. The parties to the Civil Union are not heirs to each other and do not have the right to an integral part after the succession of the will. There is no provision for the establishment of a civil union in the family list sections and denominations pursuant to Articles 51 and 53 of the Civil Law. When establishing a legal fact at a notary, there is no need for witnesses in accordance with Article 56 of the Civil Law. There is no requirement for cohabitation, and living alone for three years is not a basis for requesting the termination of the civil union. Hence, it can only be terminated by a notary or a court if the parties are unable to agree on matters of property or if either party does not wish to terminate the union. In view of the fact that a civil union is not an institution of marriage, persons in a civil union are not required to be loyal to each other or to live together and so on. The draft law also does not provide for recognition of civil unions registered abroad in Latvia. Only civil unions registered in Latvia are recognised here. In the light of all of the above, it is clear that the draft law in question does not threaten the concepts of marriage and family defined in the Constitution or in the Civil Law, no one is, of course, prohibited by any form, not registered, to refer to his household as a family, nor is their law prohibited. There are no ideological obstacles to the support of this law at the conceptual first reading. Conservatives - stand stable, to tested values, we turn to the future, believe and promote development! Our values are constant. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U136	Colleagues, it's time for a break. We will continue the debate on supporting this draft law at first reading after a break. Registration of the presence. Members before the break - please enable the presence registration mode. While the results of the registration are being prepared and... Inese Voika, member of the Saeima, reads them, the name for Alexander Kirštein's announcement of the sub-commission's meeting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U137	Honourable Members! I call on everyone to a short subcommittee on supervision of the financial sector. The meeting will take place in the premises of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax) for a maximum period of 10 minutes. ( The box “When? ”) ) Immediately... in five minutes, a meeting of the Subcommittee on Financial Sector Supervision in the room of the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U138	Thank you. I would also like to inform you that immediately, at 12:35, right next to the Red Hall, there will be a joint meeting of the Fraction Council and the Saeima Presidium. Please, all those who need to participate in it to the meeting of the Fraction Council and the Saeima Presidium. Name to Inese Voika, member of the Secretary of the Saeima, for reading the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U139	Colleagues! Not registered: Dagmara Beitnere-Le Galla, Aigars Bikše, Aldis Blumbergs, Ivans Klementjevs, Eva Mārtovas, Maris Mičerevskis, Ināra Mūrniece, Inguna Ribena, Karina Sprūde, Lubova Švecova, Zenta Tretjaka and Jānis Urbanovičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U140	Thank you. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U141	Dear Members, Honourable Members! We shall continue to discuss the agenda of the Saeima sitting after a break. On the agenda - draft law on civil union, first reading. We are continuing the debate on the draft law. Member Ilmārs Dūritis spoke in the next debate. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U142	Hello, very honourable head of the Saeima sitting! Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. High honourable Members! Civil Union law is an important step in ensuring the rule of law for all people in Latvia. That's my conviction. We can, of course, criticise this draft law, and certainly there is a basis for criticism. We can improve it. But it is, by its very nature, an opening of the eyes, it is an awareness of the actual reality of the situation. That is what the Constitutional Court tells us, as Parliament, whether we could even say. And that is what many tens of thousands of citizens have asked us to sign citizens' initiatives many times. And, as far as I know, it has now been submitted... has not yet been submitted, but is being signed... More than 20,000 signatures have already been collected for the citizens' initiative on the need for such a regulation. I would say that it is not a move away from spiritual values. It's not leaving the institution of marriage. It's just a choice offer. But for some families it will be the only opportunity to become legally, socially and economically protected in our country. This is what we have been talking about today from this troupe, and on behalf of the Commission too, Mr Butan, for whom I thank him, has also made a very broad statement. The rhetoric of people who are against the Civil Union law is dominated by such, I would say, pseudo-arguments or even myths. One of them - this law will divide society. On the contrary, this law, I would like to say, unite, because it extends legal protection to different people, different families. The second pseudoargument is a threat to marriage. How? Will those who want to unite in marriage no longer do so? And why don't they do it? Marriage continues to provide much greater guarantees, both socio-economic and other, for those who choose to marry. Children's interests are at stake, as opponents say. How? On the contrary, let us remember that children live in this unregistered relationship and that is precisely what threatens their interests in obtaining perhaps some services. And it has already been pointed out by various cases - applications in courts, Constitutional Court. Another argument is that it is threatening the generation of the people. What's the way? Do we think that these families living in a civil union will stop creating children? We know, however, that it is the social well-being of families that is an essential element in stimulating demographics. And I must say thank you very much to the main opponents of this draft law, including the National Union, who have given a lot and continuously worked on supporting families and specifically on socio-economic issues... improvement. Another pseudo-argument is that this bill threatens morality. Is the existence of immorality, or lack of morality, determined by the way in which people live in a union, or by the morals and actions of the people themselves? Do we not have enough examples of gross immorality and even illegal conduct among those who live in marriage and those who are not in any relationship? Another argument is that this bill is against conservative values: “We are in favour of conservatives, you are in favour of liberal values.” Is that the respect for a person, like him, love, trust - is it not a conservative value? I think that we can agree on these fundamental values of man and humanity as both liberal and conservative politicians. In the backstage, it is sometimes heard that Members of individual political forces say that the voter does not want this; that there is a concern to lose his elite. But if we look at what the SKDS survey in 2018 says (and that is the case, yes, four years ago), 63 percent of citizens say they support the need for such regulation. Isn't it that just part of us still... in their imagination still living in the past, but society, especially the younger part of society, is already ahead of us in this thinking? They have learned that there are different situations, different families, different relationships, different beliefs, and religions. And all of them can coexist with each other. Have we not understood that yet? And if we haven't understood it, when will we understand it? I would like to conclude by thanking you very much for the working groups set up by both the Legal Commission and the Social and Labour Affairs Commission. And special thanks to the Ministry of Justice and the people in its working group, who really all - both those who supported and those who did not - debated and worked on this draft law. And now it comes to the Saeima and we look at it at first reading. Colleagues! I call on all Members to support this bill conceptually so that we can prepare for the second reading and so that we can discuss those improvements or changes that are necessary. I call on the Saeima to comply with the ruling of the Constitutional Court and create equal or... Let's say conditions for society... We have discussed this for a long time and a great deal. I call for support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U143	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U144	Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting! Honourable Members! Do we have at least one Member who had two mothers or two fathers in the family? There's no one. Why, then, do we not wish this to present - day children? Why can we not incorporate into the Labour Law, Civil Law and other simple rules on cohabitation, on the household so that several people living together can obtain all the necessary guarantees? Why is this bill discriminating against relatives? Why, for example, would a brother and sister or other relatives be unable to live together for some reason? Why should this status be specifically reduced? I think that this law will be a springboard for families. A family is building up in marriage, promising trust in one’s friend. As we get married, we take steps to be faithful. This draft law does not provide for such words as "reliance to the partner"; it provides for the care and support of a common household. What is the attitude of children? It is written, "The goods will be divided, and the court will decide the custody." In one word, with a foot in one place, and we are building a new civil union. I think it is a step towards the loss of marriage, because in any case, the European Court recognises that there should be no discrimination against the others, and the next step will be for homosexual couples. Let us not deceive ourselves! The existing case law in the European Union proves this. It is quite interesting that it is during the crisis, during the conflict, during the Russian invasion in Ukraine, that such a draft law appears and is being discussed. Surprisingly, the Ministry of Justice, which nevertheless... Minister is from the New Conservative Party... Which breaks the promise, which... it was held several times, meeting representatives of various religious organizations, where it was agreed between the leaders of all religions that they would not object to the law of cohabitation - one that regulates residence in a household where there can be two pensioners, both a brother and a sister, as well as homosexuals, if they so wish. It is not clear why this should have broken this promise in this way, hastened this law and put Latvia in a rather interesting situation where... I said, in any case, next will be the judgment of the European Court of Justice on the need to change the Constitution in Latvia and write that marriage is possible between same-sex partners. I call for this draft law not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U145	We are continuing the debate. The name to Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U146	Dear President, Dear colleagues, This bill, “Law on Civil Union”, offers playing with the family institute. That, in my opinion, is not right. In its judgments, the Constitutional Court has repeatedly pointed to various... an aspect of human rights rules, which is more related to matters of succession. For example, this issue is to be dealt with through the Land Registers Act, in terms of state fees. Also with regard to the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, which are related to notarial taxes related to the handling of inheritance cases... Accordingly, this should be addressed. The issue of representation in medical institutions is to be dealt with through the Medical Law. The issue of various social security guarantees can be addressed through legislation laying down the procedures for the payment of social benefits. This does not require a separate law - Civil Union Law. In my opinion, if we want this discussion and the most accurate result, then this draft law must be put to the vote by the people so that the entire Latvian society can express its views in the respective referendum. When that opinion is expressed, we will certainly respect it. Therefore, I call on you, in principle, not to debate this issue and look at it in the Commission, but to put it to the referendum - to listen to the relevant opinion of the Latvian public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U147	Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U148	Dear President, Ladies, thank you very much! Ladies and gentlemen, Civil Union Law, first reading. We remember how this idea of a new law came to Parliament; we remember its debate. We remember the formation of working groups under the Legal Commission and the Social and Labour Commission: the joint working group, the third... merged... And the working group in the Cabinet of Ministers, where the leading working group is under the Ministry of Justice... Colleagues, this has been one big, big fiction! I can't call it any other way. I remember how we talked in the first working groups about which non-governmental organisations will participate in the drafting of this law. We had working groups where we only met and talked about how we will work in one working group, in the other, in the combined, which non-governmental organisations will be in the working group led by the Ministry of Justice; what should be, what should be heard by all opinions - on and against... lawyers - for and against. What is the result? What do we get? In the Saeima we get a bill from the Ministry of Justice, about which these NGOs say: “We see it for the first time.” Is that fair? Is that the rule of law? Decisions of the Constitutional Court are constantly being called upon, which we have to comply with, which is a recommended part and which we must include in it. Our colleagues in working groups have repeatedly pointed out laws in which we can include these norms in order to comply with the rulings of the Constitutional Court, but - no! Covering with the rule of law, with rulings of the Constitutional Court, we create a new, completely new regulation - we create a new institution of marriage! Colleagues! That's what you're saying: we're creating a new, additional marriage institute. There are political forces that promised this before the elections, and they are doing so. Others have not promised it; they now think how we can go out... We are more constructive or less constructive... Some say they're liberal, others say they're conservative. Colleagues, that's not right. So we are now, at this time, when we want to unite our society... we don't unite it, we split it even more. You can discuss, yes, about same-sex couples, about their relationship. We've got a lot of things... We can really come in the opposite. People, including conservative people, are ready to come up against health care, heritage matters... That there should be one financial holding. After all, to be able to drive in one car during a pandemic, to count one household. Many were ready to discuss, open other laws, but - no, there is a new law, and we are voting with power. We are simply voting. We're breaking up society. What I would like to say is that the Greens/farmers' Union does not support the draft law on civil union in this wording, and we call on the others to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U149	The name of Member Eric Pucen.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U150	Hello, dear colleagues! Hello, the audience! This draft law, the ‘Law on Civil Union’, must be rejected. We remember very well how the programme of each party was written before the Saeima elections. I call on anyone who is watching this sitting to read what the New Conservative Party has written in its programme - to make sure what they have written in their programme and what is said about Christian values from the tribunal. I'd like to call... Every Thursday, the Latvian Christian radio is a programme that talks about the concept of the family. That's the show... Well, it's not long, but there are people who talk about values. And they talk a lot about this Civil Union law. Last week, while driving home from the Saeima (a rather long road to Kuldiga), I listened to this programme, and one pastor said very rightly: this draft law should not be called “Law of Civil Union”, but rather “Law of surrogate family union”. So, colleagues, maybe think before you vote. Consider: Do any of you really have two mothers or three mothers?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, If this bill is supported, then maybe people really have to turn to... come to a referendum so that this issue can be dealt with in a popular vote, not... as we see, parties are changing their views - there is something left behind for a week and there is a change of views again. Maybe you're getting something for yourself. I call for no support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U151	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Arvil Asheraden.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U152	Hello, dear colleagues! I want to start by expressing my gratitude and admiration to the Legal Commission of the Saeima and the Ministry of Justice for the excellent work done. In these very, very difficult circumstances, a sufficiently good draft law has been created, which is in line with the practice of the largest countries in the European Union and also corresponds to a large number of declarations. It is an attempt to find a good solution in this very complicated situation. I have to say, a lot of society is trying to turn this up like this... Either, such as the Armagedon or the Apocalypses: immediately all the countries will collapse and all our things will come to an end - there will be a revolt and everything else. I think that if we look at this situation, we should look at the facts. They provide an answer why it is meaningful that the State is complying with the judgment of the Constitutional Court and the Saeima is seeking solutions in this complicated situation. I look at the 2020 accounts: we had 5.8 thousand families, and only 16 percent of them were married to minor children. If you look at the report of the Central Statistical Administration, then we see that the most common family type was this: one parent with one or more minor children. That was 23,6 percent. So today - unlike what we think we should be - people, society, choose a lot of complex solutions, but they know how they choose a common life. And, as the Constitutional Court has pointed out, it is Parliament's duty to seek a solution so that families of this type can also be protected. I would like to distinguish between three groups which I think are very important. The first group is the same-sex couple. I mean, in this case... This is not a replacement for the marriage institute, because... I would like to say that this is a practical solution - a partially discriminatory but practical solution. And it doesn't set up a Family Institute. This is very important. That's a different thing. The second group, or part that I think is very important, concerns the most widespread... the part that I mentioned - the most common family type - one parent with one or more minor children. They are mostly women. And this is perhaps one way to solve the situation that actually exists. I guess we're all... in society we know about it, remember that people have said to one another: “How is it that they live together?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Have they been married?’ - “No, they are in civil marriage.” That is civil marriage. To a large extent, such an institution can make them feel safer and more secure in their future. I don't think it's gonna be that simple. If we look at our heroic parents, so to say, the country's shifted responsibilities to provide their children, then we see a huge number of what needs to be done... The country, so to speak, is replacing the parents. But certainly... I would like to say that we give enough hope to a large number of people. If there is no way to get married, then at least it could be settled. The third group is the elderly people who often decide... It is possible that they are no longer such an emotional feeling... For practical reasons - just to reduce its costs - decides to live together. I would like to say that this is both an excellent solution for these people who want to do so, thus settling all their material... rights, as well as during cohabitation, divided... by dividing the common property. Similarly, if one of the members of this couple goes to hospital or if disability support or other cases are needed... As a whole, I would like to say that a very good draft law has been prepared. I call on the Saeima to support it today, to work on it further in the commissions. I would like to say that with the adoption of this law, the state will take one important step forward towards an inclusive society in which we give everyone the opportunity to find the right and most acceptable, best solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U153	The name of the Member, Janis Izalnieks, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U154	I would like to respond to the argument of the Members of the New Conservative Party that this Civil Union law will allow us to avoid European pressure to accept same-sex marriage... or approximately the same. I would like to quote what the current President of Latvia Egil Levit said on this matter in 2015, when he was a judge of the European Court of Justice. I quote: "The case-law of the European Court of Human Rights has developed - if a partnership law is adopted, then then it will lead to the recognition of same-sex marriages on the basis of non-discrimination. In my opinion, this is neither necessary nor correct, as the family enjoy special protection and advantages.” That's what Egil Levit said. I think that, as a former judge of the European Court of Justice, he has a very good knowledge of the case law of the European Courts. Conservatives, with your “hands”, with your ministry “hands” now actually we go to the recognition of same-sex marriages, and it will be your merit in history.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U155	The name of Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U156	Colleagues, good afternoon! I was one of the Members who worked in a working group set up by the Legal Commission and I would like to thank my colleagues in the Legal Commission and colleagues who worked in the Working Group of the Social and Labour Commission, especially the Ministry of Justice and all those who worked on this issue. One of the first issues for us in the working group was: whether to implement the judgment of the Constitutional Court narrowly - only on parental leave for the other partner - or more broadly - as called for by the Constitutional Court itself. During the work, it became clear to the Saeima that if we adopted the narrow solution, we would have to return to the amendments to the law again and again, eliminating one inequality after the other. This is not the case in a legal state. That is why I am pleased that today the Legal Commission is in front of Members of the Saeima... the law on civil union. Good legislation starts with a goal, and here it is clear - to make all Latvian families visible. It is important for every person to have the value of living in any family model. It is important for every family to recognise this and protect it, as is stated in the Constitution. The Constitutional Court underscores the issue of human dignity in this case. That is what we need today. It was necessary today to discuss this issue, which was specifically requested today by the voters following the examination of this draft law. This bill is about safety as never before. It starts with the safety of every person, the safety of the family. This makes society resilient to external threats. Legal protection is part of it. I am pleased that some Members today are determined to ensure that the judgment of the Constitutional Court is enforced. And, of course, I am not happy that some Members will not support this task today. The first sentence of Article 110 of the Satversme contains two responsibilities of the legislator: to ensure legal protection of the family, as well as to ensure social and economic protection and support of the family. In its judgment, the Constitutional Court pointed out that this means that it is the duty of the legislator to establish the legal framework for family relations in reality, and it is also the duty of the legislator to protect every family and... protection and support for families of same-sex partners. And this is also a vision and initiative of civil society. Currently, more than 23 thousand votes have been cast on the ManaBalss.lv portal to support it. Thank you very much to people for their involvement and support. Also recent sociological data... I've been here for several years... shows that more than half of Latvia's population supports the extension of the concept of "family" to the actual union of two persons. The draft Civil Union law is not for the benefit of any group; it is for all of us. And it's not a threat to anyone. Happy and secure families cannot be a threat, no matter what they say. I call for support for the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U157	I closed the debate. Mr. Butane, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U158	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to reflect and supplement, to repeat what I have said. Some Members called for amendments to Article 155 of the Labour Law and related amendments to the Law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance” to be sufficient for the implementation of the decision of the Constitutional Court, stating that the person who, at the request of the mother of the child, becomes involved in the care of the child, if the paternity paternity is not recognised, but is entitled to paternity benefit, continues to apply the practice of the individual who has chosen other forms of cohabitation... against marriage, social and economic protection. So I repeat, I'm just saying... Members who have not heard before and who have referred to this article in the debate... Thus, the Constitutional Court has recognised that the right of same-sex partners to use certain mechanisms provided for in regulatory enactments, which, moreover, is applicable in specific situations... cannot be considered as a legal framework for family relations between same-sex partners and do not provide social and economic protection for same-sex partners. The Constitutional Court has indicated that the legislator has not established the legal framework of same-sex partnerships and has not provided for them (Intersaxes.) the measures of social and economic protection and support of the same-sex partners have thus failed to fulfil the positive duty of ensuring the legal, social and economic protection of the same-sex partners' family, arising from the first sentence of Article 110 of the Satversme. This is for those who have not heard before. I would also like to say: ‘ Again! ’ • laughter.) ... On behalf of the Commission, I would like to inform you that this law is not exactly the same as the Civil Law and does not provide for all the rights of the civil union under the Civil Law. As an example, there is no change in the names of the parties; there is no legal succession between the parties; there are sides of a civil union that are not mutually exclusive; there is no establishment of a civil union in the family-lists and denominations. This draft law has been drawn up... in a minimum composition to comply with the judgment of the Constitutional Court. The Legal Commission has supported it. I also call on my colleagues to support them. On the deadline for proposals, I then...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U159	After that, yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U160	The Legal Commission has supported it.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U161	Thank you. We must vote first. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on civil union! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 41 (Some Members are applauding) , against -7, abstaining - 2. ( The paragraphs are: ‘50.’, ‘No quorum!’ Medicines cause noise.) The quorum of decisions taken by the Saeima is 50 votes, which is determined by the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia, and the majority of votes is decided by the quorum, colleagues. (Applause) So the draft law at first reading is supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U162	The deadline for submitting proposals is three weeks, or 21 April of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U163	There are no other proposals. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 21 April this year. Thank you. The first reading of the draft law on the recognition of Benjamin Morris Rota as a citizen of Latvia. on behalf of the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity - Andrejs Judin. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U164	Dear colleagues, The draft law “On the recognition of Benjamin Morris Rota as a citizen of Latvia” is under consideration at first reading. The draft law was designed to recognise Benjamin Morris Rota as a citizen of Latvia. He has resided in Latvia since 2000 and founded a family here with a Latvian citizen. He has received a permanent residence permit in Latvia. The Commission for Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity, assessing the circumstances of his individual situation, has politically distinguished and prepared a bill on his recognition as a citizen of Latvia. The Commission took into account the fact that the current regulatory framework does not provide for... I'm sorry that the existing regulatory framework... because of unforeseen events, he has insurmountable difficulties to acquire Latvian citizenship, but acquisition of citizenship meets the objectives of the Citizenship Law. In the Commission's view, it is necessary to ensure not only universal justice, but also individual justice in specific cases. Taking into account the persistent legal connection of Rota with the state of Latvia, as well as the fact that due to objective reasons, he encounters insurmountable difficulties in trying to pass the examination of Latvian language skills laid down in the Citizenship Law and obtain citizenship in accordance with naturalization, the Commission supported his recognition as a citizen of Latvia by adopting a special law. Please support at first reading. Forgive me, please support urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U165	Thank you. That is how, first of all, we must vote in favour of declaring the draft law urgent. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the bill “On the recognition of Benjamin Morris Rota as a citizen of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U166	Thank you, colleagues. Please support the draft law at first reading as well.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U167	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “On the recognition of Benjamin Morris Rota as a citizen of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading and the day of the Saeima sitting for the second, final reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U168	Colleagues, given that the draft law has been unanimously supported at first reading, please now support the draft law at second reading as well.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U169	Are Members against the second reading of the draft law at this parliamentary sitting? Members do not object, so we can vote. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “On the recognition of Benjamin Morris Rota as a citizen of Latvia” in the second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. The next item is the first reading of the draft law on the recognition of Andrew John James as a citizen of Latvia. on behalf of the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity - Andrejs Judin. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U170	Colleagues! This draft law is also designed to accept a person as a Latvian citizen, namely, to recognise Andrew John James as a Latvian citizen of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Since 2000, he has resided in Latvia, founded a family here, raised two daughters, Latvian citizens. Latvia is engaged in business activities and has received a permanent residence permit. The Commission requested the Citizenship and Migration Administration to carry out a verification of the applicant’s compliance with the requirements. We received an answer: there are no restrictions. James has made a promise of trust in the Republic of Latvia by acquiring Latvian citizenship. Taking into account James's stable legal connection with the state of Latvia, as well as the fact that for objective reasons he is experiencing insurmountable difficulties in trying to pass the examination of Latvian language skills laid down in the Citizenship Law and obtain citizenship in accordance with naturalization, the Commission supported his recognition as a citizen of Latvia by adopting a special law. Please support urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U171	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “On Andrew John James as a citizen of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. Draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U172	Please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U173	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “On the recognition of Andrew John James as a citizen of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading and the date for the examination of the draft law at the second, final and final sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U174	Given that colleagues have no objections, please also support today's adoption of the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U175	Are Members opposed to the second reading of the draft law at this sitting at this time? Members shall not object. Please call me! We will vote for support for the second, final reading of the draft law “On the recognition of Andrew John James as a citizen of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The law is passed. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Immigration, first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Mārtiņš Steins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U176	Hello, fellow Members, again! The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption discussed yesterday the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Immigration”, which provides for a number of cases. In view of the situation that Russia has invaded Ukraine and the additional action required, the Commission, at the initiative of the Ministry of the Interior yesterday drafted a draft law “Amendments to the Law on Immigration”, with a view to suspending the issue of the first term residence permits to the citizens of the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus, while laying down certain strict exceptions, namely the possibility of issuing temporary residence permits based on family reunification, international protection, employment, established by European Union law or necessary for the employment of employees in a company which has at least 51 per cent of the capital of a member of the OECD and which transfers its activities to the Republic of Latvia from the Republic of Russia or the Republic of Belarus, the need for studies or study practices established by European Union law, and the interests of the state or humanities. The necessity of such exceptions is justified by the fulfilment of international obligations and possible provision of company re-location from the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus to the Republic of Latvia. The law also provides for the duty of verification of the State Security Service in all cases of issuance of temporary residence permits. It is also foreseen that the draft law... transition period foreseen... the suspension until the end of June 2023. The draft law is intended to be supplemented by a legal framework for the issuing, registration and cancellation of residence permits. On behalf of the Commission, I ask that this draft law be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U177	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Immigration". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U178	I ask the Saeima to support the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Immigration".
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U179	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Immigration". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading and the day on which we will discuss the draft law at second, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U180	The Commission proposes setting a deadline for the examination of the proposals - 4 April this year at 14.00 and next week... So, April 7, the Saeima is sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U181	So the deadline for the second reading is 4 April at 14.00 and 7 April at the sitting of the Saeima. Thank you. The next item is the draft law on Administrative Penalty Law on Violations in the Fields of Administration, Public Order and Use of State Language, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Jānis Iesalnieks. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U182	The Commission received 14 proposals for a draft law for a third reading. 1. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It is proposed to shorten the title of the law - “General Administrative Penalty Law”. Several members of the Commission expressed their support for the idea that the current title of the law is too long and no longer reflects all areas regulated by the law, but given that this is the third reading, the Commission did not support the proposal, but the discussion on the title of the law will continue in any subsequent amendments to the law. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U183	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U184	2. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. The purpose of the law is to supplement it with the words “protection of the legal interests of the individual”. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U185	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U186	3. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Similarly to the previous one, it is envisaged to supplement the areas of activity listed in the law with administrative offences against a person. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U187	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U188	4. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Editable. The Commission decided to leave the text adopted at second reading and rejected the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U189	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U190	5. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Provision is made for administrative offences against a person to be highlighted in a separate section, but since the Commission opted for a different conceptual solution to these offences in proposal 8, proposal 5 was rejected by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U191	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U192	6. - Andrey Judin's proposal. It was partly supported, including 8. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U193	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U194	7. - The motion by the Member is moving. It was also partly supported, including 8. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U195	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U196	8 / 8 - The legal commission's proposal. Provides for a conceptual return to the initial proposal of the draft law by introducing administrative responsibility for aggressive behaviour against another person, impeding its peace. After long discussions both within the Commission for Criminal Law Policy and within the Commission for Legal Affairs, it was recognised that this concept, editorially clarifying it, is better than the articles voted at second reading on threats and persecution, which would create too wide scope for interpretation in the detection and punishment of this type of crime. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U197	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U198	9. - The legal commission's proposal. Related to previous choices in proposals 5, 6, 7 and 8. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U199	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U200	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Associated with 5. - the proposal that has not been supported in the past. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U201	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U202	11. - The legal commission's proposal. It is envisaged to introduce administrative responsibility for the use of symbols of military aggression and war crimes in a public place, except where the purpose is not to justify or praise these crimes. Here, it is important to emphasise a number of things. First, the article does not refer to alphabetic characters or other specific symbols, since the propaganda of military aggression is so dynamically changing. Therefore, it would not be possible to specify them at all times in the legislation. It would be important here to identify the motivation for using the appropriate symbol. If the letter “Z” or a white circle around the hand is used in glorifying about Russian aggression in Ukraine or in a situation where it objectively looks like a person has tried to praise this aggression, then the administrative penalty will be. In other cases of innocentness, the person would not be punished for using the alphabetic letter “Z” or the white hand sowed because it would be absurd. Secondly, the administrative responsibility is to use these symbols in any public place, not only in public holidays and entertainment events or walks, pickets and myths. If the symbol is used, for example, on clothes or cars moving in public, then this administrative penalty would be imposed. It also includes an internet space. Thirdly, at the meeting of the Commission, the representatives of the law enforcement authorities confirmed that the introduction of administrative responsibility for the use of symbols of military aggression and war crimes will not be legally in competition with Article 74.1 of the Criminal Law – “On the denial, justification or gross denial of a genocide, crimes against humanity, crimes against peace or war crimes...” because this article of the Criminal Law requires qualified hazardous activities, not only the use of any symbols as a single activity, to refer to criminal liability. The Commission was therefore in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U203	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U204	12. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Associated with 10. - the proposal that has not been supported in the past. The Commission was therefore not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U205	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U206	13. - The legal commission's proposal. Provision is made for administrative violations regarding the use of symbols of military aggression and war crimes to be recorded by the State Police and the municipal police, but administrative violations about aggressive behaviour of other persons will be recorded by the State Police. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U207	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U208	And 14. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Associated with 5. - the proposal that has not been supported in the past. The Commission was therefore not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U209	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U210	I call for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U211	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Administrative Penalty on Violations in the Fields of Administration, Public Order and Use of State Language” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. The next item is the draft law on "Amendments to the Waste Management Act", third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Gatis Zamurs. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U212	Hello, head of the Saeima sitting! Hello, colleagues! In the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy we have examined the draft law “Amendments to the Waste Management Act” at third reading. The law will require that the cost of sorted bio-waste should be 20 percent cheaper than unsorted municipal waste. This bill, with money, will motivate citizens to introduce new and sustainable habits, will enable us to reduce the amount of waste that we bury in Latvia every day, and will bring us all closer to our climate neutrality goals. The amendments are considered successful as no proposals have been received at the third reading. Please confirm the draft law at third reading by the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U213	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Waste Management". Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the Law on Library, third reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Arvils Asheraden. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U214	Dear colleagues, Let's see the draft law "Amendments to the Library Law" at third reading. The Commission has received four proposals. 1. - The proposal by Rittvars Jansons, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture. It is planned to supplement Article 19 with paragraph 6.1 of the law, stating that for the library... As far as possible, checks must be carried out in the registers of stolen cultural objects which are publicly available, thereby making sure that the printed matter or other document has not been obtained unlawfully. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U215	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U216	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. A technical, clarification proposal. The Commission is supported and included 3. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U217	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U218	3. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. The handling of specially protected documents of the National Library Stock shall be determined. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U219	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U220	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Technical specification. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U221	Members support proposal 4.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U222	Thank you. I call on the Saeima to support the draft law on amendments to the Law on Library in the third, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U223	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Library"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. The next item is the draft law amending the law on the protection of cultural monuments, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Member Linda Medne.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U224	Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Monuments” (No. 1071/Lp13). The Education, Culture and Science Commission has received four proposals for the third reading. 1. - The proposal by Rittvars Jansons, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture. It is envisaged to supplement the draft law with a new article by providing that the state inventory of monuments also includes geospatial data on immovable cultural monuments, as well as in order to ensure the storage, circulation and cooperation of data between public administrations and owners of cultural monuments, it is established that the implementation of the State functions of the protection of cultural heritage is carried out within the information system “Inheritance” of the administration of cultural heritage, whose manager and holder is the National Cultural Heritage Authority. In the Commission, the proposal is supported by changing the numbering of future articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U225	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U226	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Provision shall be made for technical clarification. The first paragraph of Section 24 of the Law contains a provision on the interpretation of the term “conservation of a cultural monument” and “conservation of a cultural monument” used by the law at second reading, which was included in the wording of Article 26 of the Law. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U227	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U228	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Provision shall be made for a technical clarification of Article 13 of the draft law in a new version. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U229	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U230	And 4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Article 15 of the draft law is intended to be reworded, with legal clarification of the references to the paragraph of the law... the relevant provisions of the Articles, which shall enter into force on 1 January 2023. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U231	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U232	I invite you to support the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Monuments" in the third, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U233	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Monuments” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. The next item is the draft law amending the Law on the Protection and Management of the Marine Environment, third reading. Member Viesturs Liepkalns on behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U234	Hello, very respectable head of the Saeima sitting! Dear colleagues, The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy at its third reading examined draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection and Management of the Marine Environment” (No. 1218/Lp13). Let me briefly remind you of the draft law. Section 1104 of the Civil Law of the Republic of Latvia provides that the sea coast belongs to the state up to the place reached by the highest waves of the sea. Thus, the aim of the draft law is to provide a clear definition of this place, as well as to delegate to the Cabinet of Ministers a procedure for establishing and approving it. A total of five proposals were received by the Commission at the third reading. Let's start looking at them. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Article 19.2.2 provides for the exclusion as that provision duplicates that laid down in the fifth paragraph of Article 19 of the second reading amendment. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U235	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U236	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Also of a editorial nature. Taking into account the change in the form of the registration of a capital company, the proposal is to replace the words “public limited liability company “The Latvian Maritime Administration” in part 3.1 of the Law with the words “public limited liability company “The Latvian Maritime Administration”. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U237	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U238	3. - also a proposal from the Legal Office. Identical with the previous one. An editorial proposal that changes the definition of the form of registration of a capital company. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U239	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U240	4. - the proposal from the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Artis Tomas Plšs. Related to transitional provisions. Partly supported and included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U241	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U242	5. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It shall be stipulated that the Cabinet of Ministers shall issue by 31 March 2023 the regulations referred to in Paragraph 5 of Section 19 of this Law. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U243	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U244	Colleagues, we have examined all five proposals submitted. The Commission has supported this draft law at third reading. I invite you to do so, too.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U245	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third final reading of the draft law on the protection and management of the marine environment! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the law on the disposal of real estate necessary for the needs of the Company, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U246	At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 23 March this year, the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Expropriation of Real Estate Needed for the Company” (No. 1135/Lp13) before the third reading. The aim of the draft law is to create a regulation to ensure the needs of the company - to acquire the necessary real estate in certain cases, for which until now there has not been regulation. Thus, the draft law includes a solution for cases where land or construction is required to meet the needs of the company, which is not yet entered in the land register, as well as for cases where the owner of the immovable property to be disposed of has died. The Legal Commission has received six proposals for a third reading. 1. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, Jānis Butāns. Provision shall be made for the possibility to carry out land measurement works without the consent of the owner of the real estate and to register the object in the Real Estate State Cadastral Information System for the part of the immovable property to be disposed of and the remaining part of the real estate. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U247	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Regina Lochmele. ( Pause) Mrs Ločmele, you are in the debate. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele’s intermediate call.) Thank you. So no debate is required on this proposal. Nor has the vote been requested. Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U248	2. - The legal commission's proposal. Article 3 of the draft law is to be excluded. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U249	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U250	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported 4. - The Legal Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U251	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U252	4. - The legal commission's proposal. It is provided that draft laws submitted to the Saeima on the disposal of immovable property for public needs include a norm on the fact of recording the land under disposal in the land register. In particular, at the time when the land is disposed of to the public, it must be entered in the land register. It shall also provide for a specific moment at which this is done. Supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U253	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U254	5. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Jānis Bordāns, which is editorial in nature. Supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U255	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U256	6. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It is planned to supplement the wording of Article 45, which is supported at second reading with regulation, which provides that in situations when a person has authorised the institution to enter the property in the name of the person in the land register, to strengthen the mark of the prohibition to a person to take any action with the property in order to prevent possible interference in the process of disposal of the property for the needs of the public. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U257	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U258	The Legal Commission has supported the third reading by means of a draft law. I call on my colleagues to support the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U259	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the third, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Expropriation of Real Estate Needed for the Company! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the law on the administration of residential houses, third reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission, Member Uldis Budriķis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U260	Highly honored Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, Welcome again. In total, eight proposals were submitted to the third reading of the draft law. 1. - A editorial proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U261	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U262	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Legal Bureau proposes that documents should be attached to the home case only by decision of the owner. The Commission heard this view and supported the broader view that, at the discretion of the housekeeper, all documents could be added. That's why 2. - The legal bureau's proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U263	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U264	3. - A editorial proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partially supported, included 4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U265	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U266	4. - Commission proposal. It's editorial. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U267	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U268	5. - A editorial proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U269	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U270	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. That too is editorial. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U271	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U272	7. - A editorial proposal from the Legal Bureau. Incorporated in 8. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U273	And supported by the Commission. Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U274	8 / 8 - a proposal from the committee responsible. Allows the owner not only to get acquainted with the home affairs, but also to produce derivatives for all documents that are in the home affairs without restrictions. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U275	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U276	I call for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U277	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Administration of Housing Houses”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Thank you. The next sittings are on the agenda - draft law on amendments to the property law of the apartment, third reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission, Member Uldis Budriķis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U278	One proposal for a third reading of the draft law has been tabled. 1. - a editorial proposal by the Minister of Justice, Jānis Bordāns. It was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U279	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U280	I call for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U281	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Housing Property Law” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. The next item on the agenda - Draft Law on Repurchase of Shares, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Igor Pimenov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U282	Good afternoon, honourable colleagues and honourable colleagues! I will remind you very briefly of the main themes of the draft law on the Law on Repurchase of Shares. The draft law aims to improve the protection of minority shareholders' rights. The aim of the draft law is to make the current regulation on buy-back offers in the Financial Instruments Market Law clearer and to avoid inconsistencies with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on take-over offers. In the event of the acquisition of control over the compulsory buy-back of shares, the rules determine, on the one hand, the amount of voting rights to express the compulsory buy-back of shares, on the other, the exemption from the mandatory offer and, on the other hand, the restrictions in the event of the compulsory buy-back of shares being refused. The draft law lays down procedures for the final redemption of shares, including the setting of the repurchase price for shares. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law before the third reading. 13 proposals were submitted. 1. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. A framework is provided for determining how a tendering procedure is conducted in cases where a decision of the Competition Council or another public body is necessary. In such a case, all time limits shall be counted from the time of receipt of the authorisation. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U283	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U284	2. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. This is a editorial proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U285	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U286	3. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. That too is a editorial clarification. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U287	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U288	4. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. In line with the proposal of the Legal Bureau, it is clarified what are internationally accepted standards, according to which an independent expert prepares the calculation of the value of the share. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U289	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U290	5. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. This is a technical clarification. The maximum or minimum number of shares in the voluntary offer need not be indicated as a percentage. The Commission was in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U291	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U292	6. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Technical specification. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U293	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U294	7. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. The list of documents to be submitted for the buy-back of shares shall be supplemented by the words: ‘Authorisation by the Competition Council or other public body... if such authorisation is required under other laws and regulations...’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U295	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U296	8 / 8 - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Editative clarification. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U297	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U298	9. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Clarifying the title of the article. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U299	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U300	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. It is stated that the Board of the company, before making public its views on the presentation of the offer, determines the opinion of the employees of the company or their representatives on the possible impact of the offer on employment. It is necessary to clarify this view in line with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U301	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U302	11. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Editative clarification. The Commission was in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U303	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U304	12. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. It is also a editorial clarification. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U305	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U306	And the last one is 13. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. The explanation here will be a little longer, because the proposal is important. Consequently, in line with the call made by the Legal Bureau at second reading to assess the need to establish a limitation period, the proposal provides for a specific rule on the legal certainty of the limitation period. The Financial and Capital Market Commission shall be entitled to initiate proceedings not later than within five years from the date of the infringement or, if the infringement is of a lasting nature, from the date of termination of the infringement. The Commission may, however, take a decision on the application of sanctions within two years from the date of initiation of the case. However, the Commission may, by decision, extend the time limit laid down for taking the decision for a period not exceeding three years from the date on which the case was brought. The Commission has supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U307	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U308	Colleagues, we have examined all 13 proposals submitted. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, please support the draft law on "Repurchase of Shares Act" at third, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U309	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law on the Redemption of Shares in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. The next item is the draft law on the market in financial instruments, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Igor Pimenov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U310	Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues. The Law on Repurchase of Shares just adopted includes the regulation of the offer for the purchase of shares, which was separated from the current Financial Instruments Market Act. Accordingly, it provides for technical changes to the Financial Instruments Market Act. The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments’ before the third reading. No legislative proposal was received by the Commission for the third reading. On behalf of the Commission, please support the third, final reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U311	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final, reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Dear Members and honourable Members, Before considering the agenda of the Saeima sitting already approved, I would like to inform you that the Saeima Bureau has received Members Valaiņa, Tagara, Planta, Dūklava, Kučinska, Bergmanis, Yalinska, Vucanas, many and Schmit's draft laws on the amendment of the Saeima's agenda for today's sitting, which includes the referral of this draft law to the parliamentary committees. Do Members have objections? Mr. Tawar, you have an objection? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Members have reservations. Objections? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Members have reservations. Mr. Tawar wants to speak. Members have reservations. ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Members have already objected. Do you want to talk about it? The name to Member Edgars Tavars is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U312	Dear President, Dear colleagues, In the morning, in the first part of the Saeima sitting, our colleague Mr Valaiņa came up with this proposal - what we can do to reduce fuel prices. And one of these points is related to impurities in diesel. What comes into force actually right now, with 1 April... The result is an increase in the price of fuel is expected. It is estimated that from 10 to 16 cents (Interior call.) per litre. The argument was that it was on 1 April when a number of fuel producers had already mixed their respective production; that this was simply no longer possible; that losses would have to be compensated. There is therefore this specific proposal to repeal this provision from 1 June to 1 June, so that we do not cause any damage, but from 1 June... Parliament makes it clear that the price of fuel, when it comes to diesel, will fall from 10 to perhaps 16 cents per litre. Therefore, colleagues, we have closed this case, which was discussed in the first part of the day. Please, support! Thank you. ( Intercretion: Vote!) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U313	We must therefore vote in favour of amending the agenda of the sitting and refer the draft law to the commission responsible. Please call me! We will vote on the amendments to the agenda - transfer of the draft law on conformity assessment (interim.) ... including the agenda of the sitting and the committee responsible for the referral. Please vote mode! ( Milestones: “What do we have to vote on? ” ; “ Against”! ) Please see the result. For - 32, for - 33, for - 14. The order of business is not changed. The referral of the draft law to the commission shall not be considered at this meeting. I would like to inform you that the Saeima Bureau has received a request from MEPs, Mr Adamovich, Mr Tatar, Mr Pouce, Mr Dzintar and Mr Feldman, to continue the sitting of the Saeima on 31 March this year, without interruption, until all items on the agenda are examined. Colleagues, do you have reservations about continuing the Saeima sitting and addressing all issues without interruption? So, then, the Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Dep. R. Bergmanis’ intermediate call.) ... are you asking for a vote, Mr. Bergman? ( The box “No! ”) ) No, so Members do not want to vote; they agree that we shall continue the sitting of the Saeima. Thus, the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Information Systems” is examined as a second reading as part of the next agenda of the sitting. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Gatis Zamurs. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U314	Good afternoon! In the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy we have reviewed the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Information Systems” at second reading. Ten proposals were received for the second reading. 1. - That's Mr Dombrava's proposal. Provides for the title ‘Law on National Information Systems’ to be replaced by ‘Law on eGovernment’. The proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U315	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U316	Hello! The title will be discussed at third reading, because I have withdrawn this proposal at this, second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U317	Consequently, Member Dombrava has referred to proposal 1.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U318	Okay. 2. - A technical proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U319	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U320	3. - That's Mr Dombrava's proposal. The first paragraph of Article 2 of the draft law is intended to read as follows: ‘The purpose of the law is to ensure the uniform management of ICT throughout public administration, including the availability and quality of information to be obtained by institutions in public information systems.’ The proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U321	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U322	4. - That's Mr Dombrava's proposal. To express the second paragraph of Article 4 of the draft law in the following wording: “The procedure for monitoring the development activities and elimination of ICT resources and services necessary for the operation of state, state or municipal information systems, as well as the general technical and security requirements of state, state or municipal information systems shall be established by the Cabinet of Ministers.” The proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U323	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U324	Hello, colleagues! I would like to begin by congratulating the Information and Communication Technology Policy Planning and Establishment Unit of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, which has developed this draft law, which has in fact long since been adopted in order to set common standards for how different ICT systems are developed in the country - so that there is no longer any new e-health and other mega expensive project, which then becomes a waste of money. So this law will be possible in the future... When developing different ICT systems, the state and public institutions will need to consult the VARM on what should then be included in the ICT system, which protocols will work with, and so on. This will prevent various monopoly situations and many other negative side effects, which I would say have been observed in recent decades with regard to the development of different digital solutions. In my proposal, I propose that these requirements be extended not only to national systems, but also to digital tools developed by municipalities, as there is also a waste of resources there, and there is a lack of expertise in the development of individual projects which is objective, as not everyone has the opportunity to draw up technical specifications at a high level, such as the development of different e-services. I agree that this proposal will not be supported today; we must also remove the legal uncertainty expressed at the commission meeting... where the Legal Bureau understands more or less, however, that the norm of this Law also applies to municipalities, but VARAM believes that it does not apply to municipalities. I think that our political will should be that, for example, Ludza municipality does not try to develop identical digital solutions that are developed by Riga or Liepaja, but our municipality would act as responsible owners, jointly develop a digital solution that could be used by any municipality, these digital solutions would be developed in high quality and would not require large capital investments after a year or two. I call for this proposal to be supported and for these rules to be clarified at third reading in order to prevent waste not only from public administration, which we have resolved, but also from local authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U325	Thank you. The debate is closed. Mr. Zamura, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U326	On behalf of the Commission, I would remind you that the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U327	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - Mr Dombrava's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 19, for - 52, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U328	5. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Add to the third paragraph of Article 6 of the draft law the words ‘and inclusion in another national information system’. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U329	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U330	6. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Complement Article 6.1 as follows: ‘Use of ICT services to ensure the operation of national information systems, national platforms and national information systems’. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U331	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U332	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The title of Article 16 is replaced by the following: Protection requirements.’ The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U333	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U334	8 / 8 - The proposal of Parliamentary Secretary Gata Zamura. On transitional provisions. Partly supported and included 10. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U335	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U336	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. On transitional provisions. Partly supported and included 10. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U337	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U338	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Combines and organises previous proposals in the transitional provisions. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U339	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U340	We have therefore examined all the proposals. Please support the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Information Systems” at second reading by the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U341	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Information Systems”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third, final, reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U342	The deadline for submitting proposals is 14 April this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U343	No other proposals have been received. The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading shall be 14 April. On the agenda of the next sittings - Draft Law Amending the Law “On Real Estate Tax”, second reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Reinis Znotiņš. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U344	Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendment to Law “On Real Estate Tax”” (No. 1262/Lp13). The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined the draft legislation at second reading. We received six proposals for the second reading. 1. - The proposal of a Member of the Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, Mr. Janis Bordan. It is envisaged that land owned by the municipality (part of it) for which there is a legal right of use of the land is not subject to real estate tax. The Commission shall be supported by a corresponding change in the numbering of the following articles.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U345	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U346	2. - the proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Kaspars Gerhard. Provides real estate tax... The municipality shall be granted the right to support the entrepreneurs with a tax credit on immovable property. It also refers to various European regulations and directives. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U347	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U348	3. - a proposal from Members Gürgen and Pucen. It is envisaged that the amount of real estate tax will be reduced by 50 per cent of the amount of tax calculated, but not more than 500 euros. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U349	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U350	Colleagues! What is injustice? We have already heard about this today. Injustice is when a country is unable to offer equivalent services to all citizens. And now we are talking about families with many children and families with children with disabilities. Latvia created a national programme together with the Society Integration Fund - to help families of children and families with disabilities. Currently there are 24 thousand multi-child families in Latvia and about eight thousand families with a disabled child. And at present these services are not offered on an equal footing. I am talking about real estate tax. If children's families across Latvia are offered a 50 percent discount, then we have to look at what the municipality offers individually to families with children with disabilities. Individual discount of about 90 per cent is offered by, for example, Riga and Saulkrasti, but many other municipalities are unable to offer it. Therefore, we must move towards ensuring that this service is equivalent and that everyone, also when entering the God's Family's website, is able to see that children's families and families with children with disabilities are offered these services equally. Immovable property tax credit is still lacking. Therefore, Mr Stein, I will certainly say that I have families that are equally dear to me, both to large families and to families that have a child with disabilities. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. (M. Stein) And at this point, I would also like to address the National Union, because your programme mentions: let us establish a fair system of real estate tax for families living in their own homes. I therefore call on you: this is the problem where we need to help and which needs to be solved equally and fairly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U351	I closed the debate. Mr. Znotins, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U352	The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has not supported this proposal in its assessment of this proposal and in its impact on the budget.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U353	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - the proposal tabled by Members Gürgen and Pucen! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -14, for -51, for -2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U354	4. - the proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Kaspars Gerhard. It is envisaged that the municipality may grant relief for certain categories of real estate taxable persons in the amount of 90, 70, 50 or 25 per cent of the amount of real estate tax. For categories of taxable persons engaged in economic activities, municipalities may grant tax relief as de minimis aid, subject to Commission Regulations and Directives. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U355	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U356	5. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport, Telelys Linkait. Provision shall be made for a simplification of the arrangements under which immovable property may be disposed of for the benefit of the public. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U357	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U358	And finally 6. - The proposal of a Member of the Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, Bordan. Provision shall be made for the entry into force of point 1.2 of the second paragraph of Article 1 on 1 January 2024. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U359	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U360	Thank you. Colleagues, we have examined all the proposals. I call for the draft law to be supported at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U361	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the second reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Real Estate Tax”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third, final, reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U362	The deadline for submitting proposals is 21 April this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U363	Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 21 April this year. Thank you. The next item is the first reading of the draft law on the Agreement on Postal Services. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U364	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, In its meeting, the Foreign Affairs Commission examined and supported the draft law on the Agreement on Postal Payment Services at first reading. The draft law is designed to adopt and approve the Agreement on Postal Payment Services of the World Postal Union, which is one of the basic acts of the Union. The agreement on postal payment services establishes a requirement for the provision of postal payment services between the Member States of the Union. The amendments made clarify the rules on the provision of payment services by electronic means, as well as provide for an exception where the selected postal operator does not provide the postal payment services provided for in the Agreement. To promote continuity of international postal payment services, the Agreement provides for the possibility to exceptionally attract other participants who have received authorisation to operate in the area of payment services. The postal operator selected by Latvia is the State Joint Stock Company Latvijas Pasts, which, in accordance with the Postal Law, provides postal services by fulfilling all obligations arising from the documents of the World Postal Union and which has received a licence for the operation of the payment institution in accordance with the Law on Payment Services and Electronic Money. The norms contained in the agreement do not provide for new obligations for Latvia, as users in Latvia are free to choose also the services of several licensed credit institutions and payment service providers that are not provided in the Union’s postal payment system. JSC Latvijas Pasts already provides the payment services referred to in the agreement and therefore there is no need to apply the exception referred to in the agreement. By ratifying this Agreement, the Law on the Agreement on Postal Payment Services of 2016 will be recognised at the same time as the Act was passed. On behalf of the Foreign Affairs Commission, I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U365	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on the agreement on postal payment services! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U366	Proposals are due by 10 April this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U367	Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 10 April this year. Thank you. The next item is the draft law amending the law on sport, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Ilga Šuplinska. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U368	Hello! Lobby dyna! Oh, my God! The Commission for Education, Culture and Science views the draft law “Amendments to the Sport Law” (No. 1388/Lp13). And immediately also the nature of the bill. Everyone has had an opportunity to get acquainted with the annotation; I will try to describe the three most important amendments provided for in the Sport Law. First, amendments to the Sport Law provide that the position of the member of the Latvian National Council for Sport, as well as the position of the head of the executive body of the Latvian Federation, cannot be occupied by the employees of the state security services, intelligence or counter-intelligence services, as well as former employees of the state security service, intelligence or counter-intelligence service of the USSR, the State Security Service of the Latvian SSR. The second major amendment relates to the fact that there is a ban on taking part in sports competitions - two countries, that is, the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus, national championships, national championships, as well as other sports matches. If athletes and sportsmen do not comply with the prohibitions referred to in paragraph 2 of this Section, they may not be included in the composition of the national team as well as must not receive state or municipal budget funds to cover the expenses of sports training and competitions. The third most important amendment relates to the fact that there is a ban on organising a sports competition in the Republic of Latvia if the teams of sports games in the national championships of the Russian Federation or the Republic of Belarus and the national championships... participates in teams where more than half of the members are teams from the Russian Federation or the Republic of Belarus. Why are such legislative amendments necessary? On the basis of Section 10, Paragraph Four of the Sports Law, a delegation has been established, which has a very wide right for sports federations – both to manage and coordinate the work in the relevant sport and field of activity in the country, to represent the country in the relevant international sports organisations, and to determine the course of sports competitions, the timetables, time and rules of the competition. This means that this basic principle is respected in the draft law. The head of the Federation must be absolutely loyal to the state of Latvia and must be the one whose reputation not only fulfils the objectives set for sport, but allows to represent the state as a whole. This is why these two institutions have also been chosen in the Sport Law - they are the National Sports Council of Latvia, as well as the Federation, because it is in these two institutions that these representatives come from different organizations as well as from... sports federations, where this specific criterion on the loyalty of an appropriate person has already been established. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law also highlights the main reason why such amendments have been made right now. That is, on 24 February, the moment when the war in Ukraine began is the fundamental reason that has led to the need for these amendments, all the more so - their urgency. And at the very end, in order simply to recall the purpose of these amendments to the law, I will emphasise only a few things. First. The aim of the draft law is state security, and probably every generation must give its approach to safeguarding freedom and explaining freedom to those who do not really understand it. That's why I can say, just like Mr. Neighbours for today... The law on the safety of public entertainment and holidays - these amendments, too, have been delayed by at least 20 years - should also have been in the Saeima for at least 20 years before this particular event. The second fact I want to highlight, and today too, there has been a lot of talk about it... as an annotation... though, I think that at present no one in the mind of a person who follows world events has been dissented or contradicted with what he understands with tender power. Sports, like any other area, brings with it a great deal of propaganda. We need to understand that this propaganda is still spreading in Latvia at this point, and that is why these amendments are needed. Thirdly, I was really sad and tragic at the same time to listen to this debate today on the Second World War - and for a number of reasons. That's the first. A number of Members have said that very many terms or, more precisely, discussions on the course of the Second World War have only begun today. I would just remind you that in the 1990s, the Latvian Commission of Historians, the European Commission, adopted the difference between the terms, namely, the two terms, the Great Ethic War, which end on 9 May, and the Second World War, which Europe... The victory over Nazism is noted on 8 May. And in fact, no other discussions should be held later, or if they were, they should at least be scientifically sound and well-founded. Why are these two specific drafts compatible? It is precisely because it has never been said, I would say, a completely new term that is now appearing in the scientific language, that is, “writtenism”. I will allow you today to quote in principle two short quotes (you will certainly notice that in the last two months this term has been interpreted in very different European and, to say, world history). , and it will be Igor Shuvajev. Igors Šuvajev says quite simply: “Writing is a mix of russification and racism by reactivated existing structures and mechanisms. Russia's war in Ukraine is the result of the Russian way of life and the certification of Christian values. For the time being, this is the last word of conservativeism. This word shall be considered to be a bloody act.’ And at the very end, so that, as you say, they do not fall asleep again and do not think that such an expression is just somewhere beyond the borders, once again Shuvajev said: “I will conclude by mentioning a few more remarks about writing, so that everyone can judge fascism in themselves. It is a horror about the loss of virtues and Christian values, the clash of civilizations, the desire for culture... Writerism is the banishes of values, taste for the real disappearance of men and women, the threat of the natural family, the destruction of the people.... Writing is a reverse and reactive mass movement, a good haven for conservatives. In writing, even with foam on the lips defends Christian values. But there are no such Christian values at all, because Christianity is a religion of purification and salvation, not a multiplication of values.” At this point, I would just like to say that the first reading of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science on Amendments to the Sport Law has been examined and has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U369	So, on behalf of the Commission, you are asking for the draft law to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U370	Yes, exactly, on behalf of the Commission, I ask you to declare this draft law urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U371	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Sport Law” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 65, it's against - 14, it's not. Draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U372	Thank you for your support. Please also support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U373	Thank you. Please call me! Mr. Kucina (Interface: “It was already a call!” ), it was time for the debate. So, colleagues, please apply in good time for the debate. ( Milestones.) Colleagues, please - we decided to work without interruption, that was your decision, please focus! We have one vote left. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to Sport Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -67, for -1, for -14. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second, final, reading of the proposals and the day of the sitting of the Saeima, when the draft law will be examined at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U374	The deadline for submitting proposals is 10 days, which is 10 April. At the Commission’s meeting, following a decision by the Legal Bureau, the date for the examination at the Saeima sitting was determined on 5 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U375	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone for Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U376	I have no objections to the deadline for submitting proposals, but I call for consideration at the Saeima meeting on 28 April to be adopted before the day of restoration of Independence of the Republic of Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U377	Thank you. So we have two proposals. The first is the Commission's proposal that proposals for second reading should be submitted by 10 April and the consideration by the Saeima at its meeting on 5 May. The second proposal, on the other hand, is the deadline for the submission of proposals on 10 April this year and the consideration of proposals at the sitting of the Saeima on 28 April. We must first vote on the next proposal, namely we will vote in favour of the deadline for the submission of proposals - 10 April, and on the consideration of the Saeima at its meeting on 5 May. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 10 April this year and for the second, final reading - 28 April this year, the Saeima. Thank you. Dear Members, Honourable Members! Thus, we have reviewed the agenda of the regular sitting of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 31 March 2022. I would like to inform you of the answers to Members' questions. The question of the Members Karina Sprūdes, Erika Pucena, Kaspars Girgena, Māra Možvillo and Alda Gobzem, Minister of Defence close Pabrik “On strengthening civilian defence capabilities in the event of threats to military conflict”. The written responses received are not satisfied, the Minister informs the applicants that it is not possible to arrive and give an oral reply because it is on mission. The question of the Members Ramonas Petravičas, Māra Možvillo, Ieva Krapāne, Ralfa Nemiro, Kaspars Girgens and Alda Gobzems to the Minister of Health Daniels Pavļutas “On the period of validity of Covid-19 certificates”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that he cannot attend and give an oral answer in connection with the debt. The question of the Members Ramona Petraviča, Karina Sprūde, Māra Možvillo, Jūlia Stepanenko, Alda Gobzema and Ralfa Nemiro to the Minister of Health Daniel Pavļutas “On restrictions on assembly to reduce the prevalence of Covid-19 infection”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that he cannot attend and give an oral answer in connection with the debt. The question by Ramona Petraviča, Māra Možvillo, Kaspars Ģirgena, Ralfa Nemiro, Alda Gobzema and Erika Pucen, Member, to the Minister of Health Danielas Pavlutas, about the number of Covid-19 and influenza vaccines purchased and their use. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that he cannot attend and give an oral answer in connection with the debt. And finally, the question to Member Ivana Ribakova, Valeria Agešina, Zenta Tretyaka, Vladimir Nikonov and Arthur Rubika, Minister for Welfare, Gatim Eglitis, about the allowance for compensation for the transport costs of persons with disabilities. The written reply received shall be granted to the applicants. I would also like to inform you that new Members' questions were not received to ministers today. Only registration of the presence of Members. Please register! Name to Inese Voika, member of the Secretary of the Saeima, for reading the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U378	Colleagues! Not registered: Dagmara Beitnere-Le Galla, Aigars Bikše, Aldis Blumbergs, Anda Čakša, Ivans Klementjevs, Maris Mičerevskis, Ināra Mūrniece, Ralfs Nemiro, Eriks Pucens, Inguna Rībena, Andris Skride, Karina Sprūde, Lubova Švecova, Zenta Tretjaka and Jānis Urbanovičs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-31-PT13-2374-U379	Thank you. The regular sitting of the Saeima on 31 March 2022 is therefore closed. Have a nice afternoon!
