ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U1	Good morning, honourable Members of the Saeima! Sir, Ministers! We will begin the sitting of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 17 March 2022. Dear colleagues, Last year, the Saeima adopted amendments to the law “On holidays, memories and famous days”, stating that 17 March is the day of commemoration of the National Resistance Movement: On 17 March 1944, the Central Council of Latvia led by Constantine Chakste completed the collection of signatures for the memorandum, which requested the actual restoration of the independence of Latvia on behalf of the people of Latvia. On this day we honor and remember all those involved in the national resistance movement. ( A moment of silence.) Thank you. Dear colleagues, Let's start the Saeima sitting. First of all, amendments were tabled to the agenda of the Saeima sitting as approved by the Saeima Bureau. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law submitted by the Saeima Presidium “On the recognition of the law “On temporary additional requirements for the work of members of the Saeima and members of municipal councils” be transferred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission present... I'm sorry... The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks to be excluded from the agenda item 31 of the draft law on investment firms (second reading). Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The draft law is excluded from the agenda of the sitting. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission requests that point 32 of the draft law Amending the Law on Credit Institutions be excluded from the agenda of the meeting (second reading). Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The draft law is excluded from the agenda of the sitting. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission requests that point 33 of the draft law Amending the Law on the Financial Conglomerates be removed from the agenda of the meeting (second reading). Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There are no objections. The draft law is excluded from the agenda of the sitting. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission requests that point 34 of the draft law Amending the Law on Investment Management Companies be excluded from the agenda of the meeting (second reading). Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission requests that point 35 of the draft law Amending the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and their Managers be excluded from the agenda of the meeting (second reading). Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Budget and Finance (tax) Commission requests that point 36 of the draft law Amending the Law on the Restoration and Resolution of the Activities of Credit Institutions and Investment firms be excluded from the agenda of the meeting (second reading). Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. Draft legislation is excluded from the agenda of the sitting. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission requests that point 37 of the draft law Amending the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments be removed from the agenda of the meeting (second reading). Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The draft law is excluded from the agenda of the sitting. The commission of mandates, ethics and applications asks for the draft decision to be included on the agenda of the meeting “On Ievas Akurateres 13. Approval of the mandate of a Member of the Saeima’. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The commission of mandates, ethics and applications asks to include in the agenda of the sitting a Report on the Member who has presented an interoperable Covid-19 certificate and is therefore entitled to participate in the work of the Saeima. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Krišjānis Feldmans, Sandis Riekstins, Uldis Budriķis, Jānis Cielēns, Reinis Znotiņš, Evita Zālīte-Gross and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft decision “On the withdrawal of Līva Kreitius, Member of the Saeima from the Foreign Affairs Commission”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Krišjānis Feldmans, Sandis Riekstins, Uldis Budriķis, Jānis Cielēns, Reinis Znotiņš and others are asking to include on the agenda the draft decision “On the appointment of Līva Kreitius Member of the Saeima to the Legal Commission”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission of Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks that the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals be included on the agenda of the meeting (No. 1029/Lp13) for second reading until 18 March 2022.’ Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission of Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks that the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals be included on the agenda of the meeting (No. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Saeima Bureau proposes to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Support Law” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers (No. 1387/Lp13). Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Maris Kučinskis, Uldis Augulis, Edgars Tavars, Jānis Vucāns, Gundars Dauge and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft decision “On task for the Cabinet of Ministers to introduce temporary border controls at internal borders urgently”. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U2	Dear President, Dear Prime Minister, Ministers! Colleagues! The aim of our proposal is to draw attention to the necessary steps that we now believe should be taken. What is being criticised for the current situation and also for the actions of the government? In fact, no one is rejecting treatment, no one is forgetting the desire to help find the best solutions, but it cannot be denied that some chaos is being accused, the search of responsibility in each case, including for the Ukrainian refugees we welcome; we do not know even how many of them have arrived. I also know many who have arrived but are not listed – and vice versa. But the main thing... the main thing here probably not even Ukrainians. In this case, the main thing is the flow of people, which is now coming to us from other countries as well. I also asked the security service whether they are currently in control of the situation – which is the main entry point for us... Also – from Russia. And the answer is, yes, they control it, but it's not too simple. What did the Estonians do? The Estonians decided to renew some degree of border control. We're... Russia's citizens, both those who flee from the regime and... are entering a lot of the time. We are not sure what their goals are for entry. They enter via Finland, then through Estonia or other places. Don't be clear, our proposal is not to put a barrier, to start stopping all the machines, to start shaking or to make everything worth... Every machine entering and people entering Latvia must, however, be controlled to the extent that we understand and fully manage the situation in Latvia – who comes in. I was asked yesterday on television whether we did not withdraw with our proposal all the border forces that we now agree are very necessary to protect the eastern border (we are not sure what will happen on the Belarusian-Latvian border; we must be very vigilant and our forces are needed there). And the answer is no. It is not a matter of regrouping, regrouping, to work on the borders that we have with Estonia and Lithuania; it is a question of strengthening our control. That is why we have submitted this, and we would be very happy to hear the answer, if you do not think that this is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U3	Thank you. Do Members object to the referral of the draft decision to the Commission? So are there any objections to the inclusion of this draft decision on the agenda of the Saeima sitting? There is no objection. Consequently, the draft decision is on the agenda. Members Sandis Riekstins, Krišjānis Feldmans, Uldis Budriķis, Jānis Cielēns and Jānis Butāns are asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to Sport Law”. Do Members object to the inclusion of a draft law on the agenda of the sitting? There is no objection. The draft law is therefore on the agenda of the sitting. Ladies and gentlemen, let us take stock of the amended agenda of the sitting. Draft decision “On Ievas Acurateres 13. Approval of the mandate of a Member of the Saeima’. Member Normunds Gunna on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U4	Hello, colleagues! The commission of mandates, ethics and applications has received 13. An application by a member of the Saeima, Juris Jušas, concerning the appointment of a member of the Saeima. According to the Central Electoral Commission, the candidate for the next New Conservative Party from the Kurzeme electoral district list is Ieva Akuratere, who has agreed to accept 13. The office of a member of the Saeima as well as the fact that he is not subject to restrictions on the appointment of a Member as laid down in the Saeima Election Law and other regulatory acts shall not apply to him. At its meeting on 16 March this year, the Commission unanimously supported 13. Approval of the mandate of a Member of the Saeima to Ieva Acuratere. I invite you to support the draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U5	Thank you. I call on Eve Acurator to make a solemn promise.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U6	When Ieva Akuratere takes office as a member of the Saeima, I swear to the Latvian people to be faithful to Latvia, to strengthen its sovereignty and Latvian language as the only language of the state, to defend Latvia as an independent and democratic state, to perform my duties in good faith and according to the best consciousness. I undertake to respect the Constitution and laws of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U7	Thank you. I'm calling for an oath. Thank you. (Applause) Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On Ievas Acurateres 13. Approval of the mandate of a Member of the Saeima’! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. (Applause) Calling 13. Members of the Saeima, Ieva Aquateri, to sit in the Saeima's meeting room. Dear colleagues, The next item is the report by the Member who has presented an interoperable Covid-19 certificate and who is therefore entitled to participate in the work of the Saeima. On behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications - Member Normunds Gunna.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U8	In accordance with Article 4 of the Law on temporary additional requirements for the work of members of the Saeima and members of municipal councils, I declare that on 15 March 2022 an interoperable Covid-19 certificate, confirming the fact of vaccination, was submitted by Member Ieva Acuratere. Thus, Ieva Akuratere is entitled to participate in the Saeima's work.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U9	Thank you. So we have heard the report. The following items are on the agenda: reports by the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Support Law” presented by the Cabinet be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Reports by the Prime Minister, Ministers and other officials. Annual report by Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš The Saeima on the work done and planned by the Cabinet of Ministers. Name to Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U10	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Dear Members, Honourable Members! Colleagues Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Since 24 February, the world has changed significantly - fundamentally. On 24 February, Putin-led Russia, its armed forces unprovokedly invaded the sovereign, independent and democratic neighbourhood of Ukraine. There is no question here that there are different grey shades. Here is black and white. Putin Russia has a 100 per cent responsibility and is responsible for the fact that it has entered into a war with Ukraine. Ukraine is by no means to blame. Ukraine has suffered clearly and lightly in this story. We have been watching three full weeks, starting already in the fourth week, that the Russian troops, unable to prevail over the Ukrainian armed forces, have decided to change their tactics and aim directly at the civilian population, trying to destroy those cities that are surrounded or partially enclosed. The brutal shots that we all have seen in these weeks will serve as a witness that will be used in the future to demand Putin, his fellow workers and those responsible... taking responsibility at the Hague Tribunal and elsewhere. These are clearly war crimes, which are condemned to the strongest, most serious. We, Latvia, have responded unequivocally - with support for Ukraine. Today, too, there is the Ukrainian flag on this troupe, and many Members have the colours of the Ukrainian flag - they are in clothing, they are in a note, or even in a face mask. We are now building the same unity in society and politics as we have not been. Here I must say a very warm thank you, if you can say so, to fellow Members, including those from the opposition, for your very clear position on Putin's aggression. We have lived in Latvia for too long... in those misconceptions that the position, the opposition - so those who speak Latvian, those who speak Russian in Latvia... that we would somehow be opponents of each other. We are not enemies of each other in this country, in this Saeima, in terms of... on fundamental values. We have very different political views, different opinions on taxes, different opinions on other rules. It fits in, it's in every country. And it's normal for any democracy... composition, but in this case, when I realized that this is about Ukraine's existence, and therefore about the existence of Latvia and all the other democratic Europe... We have now met together and agreed to condemn Putin, to support Ukraine, thus demonstrating our conviction of the primacy of democracy over dictatorship, of the primacy of democracy over imperialism. If we can benefit from all this not only in politics - all our society can learn in part and look at our example that we can put everyday disagreements on the edge and unite in big things. So the support of our society and the government for Ukraine is comprehensive. This began with military support. Our government provided the Ukrainian armed forces “Stinger” with air defence systems and other weapons already before 24 February, when only three Baltic States and Poland did so in Europe. Other countries were very reluctant to look at the possibility of arming Ukraine. We weren't afraid. We understood that they needed it. We did. We are also humanitarian... help them with fuel, medicines, and so on. But he's going on. Not only the government is acting, the entire society is currently very positively mobilised, both individuals and municipalities donate money, donate their time, donate all kinds of goods from both their own company warehouses and their own households, organising it all as a help to Ukraine. And not only have we done this so far, we, the government, will continue to provide Ukraine with all forms of assistance, including military assistance, and I am convinced that society as a whole will continue to do so. This violent invasion of Putin by Russia in Ukraine is actually beginning to unite our society, which is a very positive result of the start of such a terrible, brutal, inhumane and unjustified war. We also strengthen the security of our country. As a country, we have for a long time published the NATO target... a two-in-one percentage point contribution from the gross domestic product. This year we are somewhere between 2.2 and 2.3 percent... we are investing in our protection, and we have already decided to increase this to 2.5 percent. In addition, we will increase our contribution to our home system, so our police and our border guards, because we understand that our country's defence is not just an armed force, they are also our police and border guards, as has long been demonstrated by the Belarus border crisis since last summer. We also see huge public participation here. During the first 10 days of the war, so many young people, usually... That number shall coincide in two years. So people want to do something, donating money, and more and more people are willing to donate their time, become earthly guards, and thus directly strengthen the capacity of our armed forces. So we will invest these extra funds in our armed forces so that we can be both more numerically and technically more capable. We already have very professional and capable soldiers, but we will be even more equipped with even greater and - where necessary - more lethal capabilities to counter any possible aggression against us by the opponent. But not only do we strengthen ourselves. We know that we have been in the NATO military alliance for 18 years. NATO Military Alliance in Latvia daily together with our men and wives who serve in the armed forces will exercise and work troops from 10 different NATO countries. Today there is already the eleventh country. The United States has also arrived with its combat helicopters, the troops of the armed forces - very many units. This NATO leader or team in Latvia is led by Canada. We are very grateful to Canada for its readiness... not just that they've been... but, as Mr Trudo mentioned during his visit to Latvia, they have already decided to extend their presence, extend their leading role in Latvia. They also send additional soldiers and additional military equipment. Spain does the same, Italy does the same, Denmark, for example, strengthens our airspace, strengthens... vessels at sea. I have already mentioned the United States - including air patrolling - with the aircraft they are taking part. So we strengthen ourselves. We will invest more. And our NATO partners do the same. NATO countries have talked about strengthening and strengthening the Eastern Flank of Europe. Colleagues, this is happening today. It's not just a theory, we already have a much bigger military force in Latvia today... the number of NATO countries and also military equipment, and this will only grow. It is also very important to remember the basis on which NATO exists. It's a defence alliance. The Alliance of Defence, in which the principle operates - one for all, all for one. So called Article 5. In recent weeks, I have heard myself, I have spoken, and we have read in the press that the President of the United States, Baden, Canadian Prime Minister Trudo, British Prime Minister Johnson, German Chancellor Scholtz, French President Macron - all after each other and, in parallel, repeat the basic truth that NATO will protect every square centimetre of the NATO state, including Latvia, including Lithuania, including Estonia, including Poland and so on. We are not just safety consumers. We are very grateful that we have these NATO additional forces already today in Latvia, but we also invest and invest ourselves in strengthening proportionately even more than many NATO countries do. But there is another area that we need to strengthen. This is a field of information. In this war, as it proves, the field of information is also very much of weight. It does not kill people, but it kills people’s minds. We know that in our country many people have lived in an information field that is closer to the information field in Russia, which is not in Latvia, Estonia, Lithuania or anywhere else in Europe. They have actually been represented for decades by the Kremlin's lie, which has entered our society directly and sows, I don't know, as cancer of such ideas or ideas, and we have to uncover this cancer, put it out. At last, our media supervisor, the NEPLP, has closed, I don't remember, and I think about 49 channels and over 60 internet sites. Instead, we also put in Russian-language objective news coming from a wide range of countries, including Deutsche Welle, British BBC, Current Time and other media. More and more media that are going to exile from Russia are located in Latvia. For these media it is important that they can work here and that we continue to improve their media space in Latvia. But we speak and our laws state that we have one community state, we have one state language, we have the leading culture in Latvian culture - with the aim of integrating all who live in Latvia, respecting every ethnic origin, mother tongue, but all of us have access to our country's language, culture, information space. But so far, unfortunately, it has not been in many places. We must seize this opportunity to help those people who have lived for decades in a completely different informational environment. Let's not begin with a condemnation. Let's start with the explanations. I am convinced that if we, the broad majority of society, want to involve these people inclusively, we really want to involve them! - in our society, we will succeed. But it's a two-way street. A person must want to come, and on the other hand he must give a friendly hand to help. I am convinced, colleagues, that we will go this way and, as a result, our societies will be even more united. What are we doing now and the rest of the Western world? With sanctions, we are isolating Putin's regime and Lukashenko's regime, which is working and co-responsible to Putin, because, of course, the many invasions in the north of Ukraine to Kiyiv began in Belarus. So Belarus has allowed them, as if in a sovereign territory, to be able to build up Russian troops and carry out their invasions on them. This makes the Belarusian regime co-responsible for Putin's regime. And these sanctions are being extended and tightened up every week, affecting individuals, businesses, the Russian Central Bank, and other - private - banks with SWIFT shutdown. As a government, as a country, we have always stood by the need for more rapid maximum sanctions. And we will continue to defend that idea in this way, because the Russian Government, the Kremlin, is financing its military machine from somewhere. If we can isolate cash flows, Putin will find it more and more difficult to finance his military apparatus and, of course, to keep some peace in his society. Many of us would like to see decisions made more quickly. I'm one of them. But, on the other hand, what I have seen as a politician in 20 years has not been the unity that the European Union, the NATO countries have been. And the sanctions that are introduced are brutal and comprehensive. Why? Because they were introduced not only by the whole of the European Union, but also by Britain, the United States, Canada, Switzerland (very important in financial matters), Australia, Japan - the whole democratic world united, because for years there has been something said that authoritarianism is power and democracy is weak. I say the opposite: democracy is the strongest governance model in the world that has been and will be. And we, as democrats, do not have to be ashamed of being strong. We have a duty to be strong and defend ourselves so that dictators, autocrats and emperors, or those who want to be emperors, cannot deprive us of our freedom. We have to fight for it, we have to invest in it, we are doing it, and we are going to do it. And we will stick with other like-minded people. This is happening all over the democratic world and we will continue to do so. Those penalties. Now I'm going to focus on what that means to us. Sanctions already have a negative and severe impact on the Russian economy today. That is clearer than clear. But, of course, they also affect Europe, including Latvia. We see today that partly also as a result of sanctions... or markets, fearing that there will be some more extensive sanctions... There is huge speculation on the energy market - fuel, gas. The fuel on the world stock exchange went up to 130 dollars per barrel, then yesterday, yesterday, fell to 98 dollars per barrel. The huge, huge fluctuations, because speculators are trying to understand what the new reality will be: it will flow with its oil or it will not flow with its oil, or the Arabs will blow more or less, or the Americans will be able to export more or not. The same happens with gas. It is like a storm - when these waves of sanctions affect the world, including us. It's gonna cost us and pay us money. Sanctions will also cost us money. But for Ukrainians, this war costs blood, human lives and public infrastructure - buildings, hospitals - everything that is being bombed. All that is being destroyed is the price that the Ukrainians are paying. We will also pay the price. And that's the price of money, but money has one good thing that we can do if we're smart, earn it back in the future and go ahead. Many - many of you too - believe - and I understand very well - that if prices rise, we must act and compensate people for the difference in prices. I want to say very clearly from this troupe - neither our government nor any government in the world can and will not compensate everything... the impact of the expected sanctions. There is no money that can compensate for it. So if we cannot compensate everything completely, we need to ask - but what can we do then? And I say, we can do it. We already have economic support of EUR 450 million. This represents more than one per cent of gross domestic product. According to the President of the Bank of Latvia, it is in Europe... We are one of the most generous governments. Still official statistics are not available, but it seems that we will be if not the most generous, then one of the most generous. It has been created for us already before this war because of the rise in electricity prices, and there are very many reasons why it happened. We are compensating people for electricity bills and heating bills already today, and this allowance is quite extensive, in fact excellent. I have even spoken to one person who gladly told me that there is nothing to pay for electricity right now. Somewhere we may have compensated too much, perhaps not enough somewhere. The same is true in heating bills - as in the municipality, as in which forms of heating... Many people have not just climbed their bills, they have even dropped their bills. And from this we have a lesson in what to learn and how to proceed. These support mechanisms will be in place throughout April until May. May, month... we know that with inflation, which is a phenomenon in Europe at all, also in Latvia, where fuel and energy prices, which is one of the main drivers, do not know... We will need to develop and continue with a new mechanism in the form of support. I propose that this mechanism be a targeted benefit for those groups in need. Do not attract it directly to the price of electricity or to the price of fuel, because they are likely to fluctuate, but partly compensate for the price or the cost of living, for example for pensioners with fixed income, to large families where income makes this family less prosperous than those who work... alone, and other categories. This can be done and with targeted benefits. That is what I argued, what we have to do from May. If we start to compensate today for the rise in the price of fuel, the price of fuel may fall as well in a month, we know that this may be the case, maybe it may rise. We do not know, we cannot predict this. So what we can predict is that, as a result of general inflation, part of our society will be in an increasingly difficult situation, and we must help these people, because another part of the company working in exporting companies... and so - there all goes up, there salaries go up, there are no these difficulties. I understand that many people feel the cost of fuel directly, but perhaps not all those who feel it are certainly the target audience. The poorest people do not drive their cars every day; they do not. They are not paying for fuel directly, they are paying for fuel indirectly - with more expensive food prices. So let us be wise, let us be responsible, let us find, let us set up support mechanisms, but let us put in place targeted mechanisms so that we can afford it as long as possible. The next question: how will we develop our economy in this new context? This is a very important issue. The first question is about our country's energy. If we look at our total energy consumption, we see that 40 percent of what we consume already comes from renewable sources. The electricity that drives this lamp is some 64 percent of the electricity that comes from renewable sources. But 36 percent of electricity... comes from gas, and gas is one fifth in our common economy. Oil products have more salt, more than a quarter - 27 percent. So oil, gas - these are fossil sources, they are imported sources, but they are mostly fossil sources imported from Russia. So two minuses: one - very unfriendly to the environment, two - geopolitically impossible in fact. Oil. Oil is mainly consumed in transport in our country. How can we get out of this? One thing that has been done (and it must go ahead in Europe and Latvia) is the so-called biofuels. The question of its sustainability is that biofuels are devoted to fuel instead of food in rural areas. And we know one thing about war in Ukraine. It affects Ukraine, where there is about one fifth of the world's wheat growers. The harvest will probably not be the usual one, and it will affect the price of wheat. This is good for our farmers, but very bad for our consumers. This could create even greater difficulties in the wider world, especially in the Middle East, because the Middle East is mainly based on Ukraine and Russia's main market. So this is one way, by mixing it, we're reducing Russia's... overall oil consumption for transport. Then we have an electric vehicle. Now we have government support, help to buy, but let us be honest: this subsidy is already so rich for people, because cheap electric transport costs from 20-25 thousand euros. There are not too many people in our country who are ready and capable and willing to extradite 25 000 for any kind of transport. So this is a step in the right direction: car industry will develop, prices will also fall, inevitably, but at the moment it is not one immediate, complete solution. Hydrogen. Hydrogen technology is very promising. We even have one hydrogen petrol station, which, I guess, produces hydrogen by burning Russian gas, but that is what could be said, an early experiment. I believe that, as science develops, perhaps after 10 or more years of hydrogen will be a real alternative, but today that is not the case. And, of course, we have public transport opportunities, that is to say, if we live in or near cities, to reduce the use of private transport, to make greater efforts to use and develop public transport. But with oil... We cannot get rid of oil physically within the next two, three, or ten years. What is possible is to replace Russian oil with oil from other countries, because oil in Europe is in tankers, as we say. Tankers can swell... You can also get it to a processing plant in Lithuania. But we cannot get rid of this addiction in such a short time, but we need to plan, as we will do in the medium term, because, in order for our economy to develop, we cannot afford import dependency at all times. Today, it is Russia, which is going through hard markets, just as well in the Middle East - there could be something going on and there could be fluctuations. And for gas. We use gas for electricity. Thus, 36 percent of all electricity produced in Latvia is gas, and part is also used for heating. Now for heating. At least for private homes, private households, apartments - we already have a government support mechanism where people can switch their gas boiler to a pellet boiler or solar collector or heat pump. These opportunities are now with the support of the state, i.e. the funds of the European Union. We need to go in that direction. We are still reducing the number of municipalities that are district heating based on gas, going to the slice. Some... and the size of each other has not changed yet, but we need to encourage this transition, because in those municipalities where district heating is based on chips, prices are constantly lower than those which burn natural gas and, of course, it is a by-product of the domestic, forest industry, rather than imported from Russia or elsewhere. We have also approved ambitious plans to develop wind parks in the government, together with “Latvian State Forests” to build wind parks in forest masses - away from populated areas - and to pay local governments some money for every kilowatt-hour generated. This is the solution when it would usually take seven to ten years, but the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development is determined to shorten the environmental impact assessment so that it can be built and received within three years. That is what we have to press. But you understand the size. Today, Russia is being sanctioned. We will have at least three years before we can significantly increase our domestic production capacity. And in the middle of that, we also need to develop a second possibility - that we continue to use gas. Latvia with Lithuania, Finland and Estonia has a single gas system - 10 billion cubic metres per year. Half of this is consumption of the Finnish industry, the other half is consumption of three Baltic countries. We usually get 90 percent of the gas from Russia, 10 from the liquefied... from ship cargo. It is estimated that we, the three Baltic States, can supply ourselves fully with the liquefied gas terminal already in Klaipeda in a year-to-year perspective... without Russian gas. But we cannot export to Finland in that case because there is not enough permeability. If we want to continue with gas in the medium term, we need a second liquefied gas terminal in the Baltic region. There are different projects in Latvia and Estonia, where one could build one. There is a cool mind to look at, which would be the best for our consumers, because in the gas system the centre... and the most valuable infrastructure and necessary... is a underground storage site of Inčukalns, which is owned and controlled by the State. So here we have to look at how we could reduce our dependence and ultimately not buy any more gas from Russia, but that we would not stop our generation stations. And that means we need to look at another terminal in the Baltic region. And for a long time, it must be thought that gas, even if we can buy... and there are terminals... and pumped from the ships - it is a reimported product. It may come from America, perhaps from Qatar, perhaps from Australia, from elsewhere, but it is again a dependence on external imports. And we have to look further... with updates on how we can become more independent. Another option for the future is nuclear energy. And this is an opportunity for us, as a country, to seriously consider whether this would not be a good thing for us. There are also so-called small-gabarite nuclear stations. I had exactly a conversation with the British Prime Minister about this because they are interested in it too. They have submarines, each with a small power plant with a small size. This type of power plant could actually be used on land. And they have an interest in developing this; perhaps we would also have such an interest. Of course, there is the question of nuclear waste - how to resolve that question? But I think we have to look... If we are currently heavily dependent on Russia's energy imports, we must replace it primarily with the same products - oil and gas - from other sources. But in the longer term, that we would not have any dependence on oil and gas at all. So - to develop domestic production, to develop renewable... wind parks and perhaps also nuclear energy. That must be the discussion. For the rest of the economy. We need to understand that the Russian and Belarusian markets will be closed in the coming years. Those companies whose business model is trading with Russia... Its era is over, fundamentally over. Some countries, such as Belgium, are privileged because they are located between one rich neighbour with an open market and another rich neighbour with an open market. We, in the north-east of the European Union, live with rich neighbours; in one direction, in the east, we have always had a less prosperous neighbour, but some trade was possible; it has now come to an end, because the isolation of Russia and Putin must continue for as long as Putin or her... while this driver, autocrat, dictator is in power. And it may be a shorter time, it may be a longer time, but we have to assume that it will be a longer time and that this Russian isolation will be for a long time. Our trade in the 1990s... I remember being an entrepreneur, I was over 75 percent in 1998... And then the Russian crisis broke out, and two years later, in 2000, in 2001, we had only 25 percent anymore... With Russia and CIS countries and 75 percent... with Europe and other western countries. Today, we have its balance sheet as follows: eight percent - Russia, 92 percent - the rest of the world. So we need to reorient the remaining eight percent so that Russia is not part of our plans. When things change, we'll get it. Let's wait for that day, but let's not have a breath right now. How, then, will we do so, and how can we develop? I have made two words from this troupe, which is rarely understood by a few, even the rarest one can say,'smart reindustrialisation'. I repeat this today. This is a strategy that we have all adopted, colleagues. It's just... as I now called it... which is in the context of our National Development Plan and our national industrialisation policy. So we're... Our goal is to increase our exports... with increasing added value. Pull in the investments that can operate in this way. And to do this, we have already done a lot together. Sometimes forgotten, but when we started with this Saeima and government, we arranged our financial sector with... at that time I call it capital repairs, it has been very successful, so successful that in our country... are records, the highest credit rating ever in history. Financial, that is, money, markets become more expensive, but thanks to our good rating, we will have lower rates than many other countries, they will be even more expensive, but not as expensive as they would have been with another rating. And after the recently recognized... International experts have acknowledged that if we had not done so, our country would have lost about ten per cent of gross domestic product. Imaginable amount. So not only did we avoid a certain disaster, but we put our environment in order, and now... with all sanctions... The Latvian banking system and the economy are not under threat, because our banking sector has long been away from Russia. It has long been done; it is still in front of others. We have made an administrative territorial reform. New municipalities are already working, many are starting to accept it as a new... normal, but, colleagues, we know that it was a huge job both for the municipalities themselves and, of course, for the legislator, when you draw up the law to the end. We have the law on higher education administration. And what has this done? We have now identified four universities of science where we will concentrate our money investment funds - Riga Stradins University, Riga Technical University, University of Latvia, Latvian University of Agriculture in Jelgava. And if you look at it, colleagues, we, as a government, made one of the universities we have to get the Top 500 in four years. Today Riga Stradins University is in the Times Higher Education ranking between 500 and 600 places. The same is true when four years ago none of Latvian universities appeared in international tables. And that's because the academic... Let us say that academic staff have also mobilised, understanding what we want as a country to do. University of Latvia also appears in ratings, Technical University also appears. The Latvian University of Agriculture still has where to grow, but we know that it has world-class veterinary medicine. I am convinced that this is just a matter of time. We also have education reforms in the context of the ATR. These are the most complex reforms our ministers are undertaking because there are two reforms at the same time. One is the reform of the school network - now just consolidate the number of schools, the money to be more targeted... And the other is the content reform, which I think is the same... if not more important; there we ensure that young people have a choice of subjects. And now, if we think about what we want... I am talking about nuclear energy. We need nuclear physicists. We have companies in the electronics sector that are ready... I've talked to them... For us LIAA, the Ministry of Economics works with them... We would be ready to move towards the production of semiconductors in Latvia. Initially, certain 5G modules could in future. But there we also need professors who train and train staff who can work in these areas. And the reform of its content, on which ministers are also working, would also mean that we would be better prepared for these young people. And we're missing in the country... And for years and years, we've heard it from the industry... For us now, from the compulsory exams - Latvian language, mathematics... Natural resources are a free choice. And here we have to develop and put additional mathematics into one of the 12 classes of the compulsory science exam; it would be - physics, chemistry or biology... But that we leave two levels... So one is the advanced level... Well, what really goes for a particular physical being, but there is also, as says, this average or general level. This is a practice that works across Europe. It is important for us that young people do not stop learning physics, chemistry and biology, but continue to make sure that those who are interested in it are aware of their talent and interest, and then can go further in higher education and become future engineers, which our country so much needs. This year, we have increased funding for science by 32 percent. At last! Colleagues, we have finally all agreed on this. This is the largest one-year investment. We have a EUR 100 million fund of support for large companies, where... we are looking directly for investment in leading exporting... We have attracted EUR 600 million in investment this year... last year - 2021. All this is the result of the long and difficult work of reform after reform. And this government will continue in this spirit, and we will continue to work tirelessly until the next Saeima. Colleagues! Russia's war in Ukraine unites - it unites Europe. It unites NATO, as I said, as we have not seen for 30 years. It has also brought an absolute majority of Latvian companies together to support Ukraine. We can see that the government, the Saeima, the municipalities... The public administration is now starting to work in Tandem. Well, we've all seen... We haven't done it ourselves... academic rowing. Eight people are sitting... And in the past, maybe one was sitting in one direction, the other in the opposite direction. Now not only sits all in one direction, but begins to listen to what boats in the caterpillar say: “And!” ... and starts pulling in the commact... If I thought... I can now only be proud of my Cabinet of Ministers, its composition and how coherent and responsible all ministers are at present. I can only be proud. In this crisis, everyone has a role to play and everyone has a very good role to play. I'm not saying that everything is perfect, we have everything to improve. Kučinska Maris mentioned at the beginning that perhaps another area... But we're going in the right direction. Let's start by working with our foreign partners to help everyone unite... are you not pregnant? It is Mr Rinkēvičs, our Foreign Minister, who is currently in Riga - together with us here in the Saeima room. (Applause) Non-stoppering in the field of our defence (I can really say non-stoppered!) Mr Pabrik, our Minister for Defence. I've talked to him a lot, talking to our officers... While I was in London, I also heard very good comments about our Minister of Defence. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence are working - as a tandem - with our partners. This strengthens us very much at this time. And, of course, it is also about coordinating assistance for Ukraine. For refugees, Mrs Golubeva, the Ministry of the Interior, has a responsibility there. What is amazing is that we may now have such small, challenges, but there is no big problem that we could expect. And that's because both the home system works and... of course, our society and our municipalities work with us. So there is still much to be improved here, but the basic system is and is working for us. On sanctions. There is one thing about sanctions being imposed, but they must also be introduced in nature. Finally, we are beginning to read that such and such sanctioned Russian oligarch have been frozen (and I think it is rightly so). And this work is led by our Justice Minister, Mr Bordan, perhaps not through the first pages of the press, but, believe me, he and his people are working hard to implement it all. It sounds simple, but legally there are nuances that they also overcome. Then we have the whole economic reorientation... There is a great role for Wittenberg Janis, our Minister for the Economy. And about the energy transition... What I'm talking about... That's where Wittenberg works with the Plus... with Artūra Plēš, who is Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. So they're working there in Tandem. And also the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development works with municipalities. Refugee education. That's a lot of social networking talk about. There, the Minister of Education and Science is also working on this matter. And the Ministry of Education and Science plays a very important role in the re-training of people. If a person has worked in a company that has always traded with Russia... That company is either reorienting the markets or having to find another lesson for its employees. And if the employee has to find another lesson, re-training is very possible there. And this is once again an issue of education. The health of refugees. Here we have the Minister for Health, Mr. Pavlut, who, in recent years, let us say so, has been a little busy with a pandemic, but he... and his system was immediately opened without any word and, as he says, provided services - in an organised way - to refugees. As for the informational environment, what I'm talking about... We have the Minister for Culture, Mr Puntulis, who is working on it, and he has that responsibility. On benefits, targeted benefits to develop... We have the Minister for Welfare, Mr. Eglitis, who is working on it. On food safety. This is not a matter for us at the moment, but we have the Minister for Agriculture and the Ministry for Agriculture, which is working constantly to ensure that it does not become a matter for us. We have a great challenge in the area of transport, in the area of transit. This is largely related to a huge shift, and there our Minister for Transport, Mr. Linkaita, is a "key man". And finally... I left him as the last, but maybe not the least... We have Minister for Finance Reir, who ensures and will ensure that we are able to finance all of our needs and, if necessary, borrow on the market and plan how we will make progress. In conclusion. Guys, it's gonna be okay! The main thing for us is to stick together. Be aware that all residents of Latvia are equal, regardless of which language they speak at home. We are all united against Putin Russia and for support for a free, democratic Ukraine. It is important that our hearts are filled with love for Latvia - freedom of Latvia, democracy of Latvia. I am sure that this crisis will bring us together, that we will come out of this crisis in a smarter, stronger and more united way. May God bless our beloved Latvia! And let's all stand like a rock with Ukraine! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U11	Thank you to the Prime Minister. Let us start a debate. ‘ Development/About!’ on behalf of the Group. - Member Andris Skride.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U12	Mrs. Mourniece! Mr. Prime Minister! Ministers! Colleagues Members and Members! ‘ Development/About!’ on behalf of the Group, I will touch more on what our ministers have done. It is clear that both the beginning of this year and the whole past year have been full of challenges for the government and for us too. The Communion crisis has not yet ended, but Russia has already raided its weapons at the Ukrainian border and, very recently, in February, unfortunately, has also taken this brutal invasion. As a result, energy prices increased rapidly. And even before Russia's invasion, you remember, there was also a hybrid attack on Belarus, both for our country, Poland and others. Read more about our ministries. I'll start with the Ministry of Defence. Really great joy and satisfaction... On behalf of our group too... that Mr Pabrika is now very active in defending our interests, is meeting with NATO Defence Ministers regularly as well as in other formats, has just visited Turkey, is returning from Brussels today. It is clear that this successful cooperation with defence ministers of other countries and partners of other countries allows Latvia to feel secure. Responding to citizens' interest in the Earthguard, there are increased resources for us to join Earthguard, further development of infrastructure, and a comprehensive concept of national defence is being developed. The Ministry provides support to soldiers after their return from missions. The Minister is actively calling for an increase in the state budget for defence to 2.5 percent. I think, and we in the group also think that this really should be one of the priorities. The Minister is also actively calling for the introduction of an air defence system in our country. That is also one of the most important things in the defence of our country. Please combine the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U13	The debate times are united. Please combine the times.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U14	Ministry of Health. In fact, our Minister, Mr Pavļuta, has been working in unprecedented circumstances during this time. 80 percent or more of the Latvian population have been vaccinated. Yes, perhaps we have all wanted this to happen even more quickly, but the figures have been achieved well enough, and that does not end - we are continuing to vaccinate refugees who have already come from Ukraine, we are fully integrating Ukrainian refugees into our health system. They are fully paid for both scheduled and acute... things, medicines. I can safely say that medical wages have indeed doubled in this time compared to what they were four years ago. The other thing is that the medical overload, just like now, is for so many... overload, and huge. That is what we need to work on in the future. A lot has been invested... The second group of people with disabilities also does not have these health benefits. The challenge for the future, which we have also discussed with the Minister and which I hope you will all support, is clear: the digital strategy. The next important point, I think, is prevention. We have invested enormously in medicine for a long time, where we have to invest, let us say, in extinguishing the fire, but we have to invest more and more where we will later gain more, namely, prevention, with less means, and that is, starting from a simple point of view, with what we eat. Yesterday, speaking to the Commission and also to the Minister... we know that in fact every fifth death we can distance very simply - with an accurate, healthy diet. Ministry of the Interior. Thank you to Mrs Golubeva for her active activities. At the time of his appointment, there was no time left behind. This unprecedented hybrid operation from the Lukashenko regime was rapid and we reacted quickly. The work that has not been done for years - the construction of the fence on the eastern border - has progressed rapidly, the construction continues. As we know... as we have spoken to the group, Mrs. Minister, it must be completed during this year. Here too, the parliamentary secretaries of our ministries are very much involved: both Mr Stein, Mr Duritis and Mrs Bodniece. In conclusion on the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. Indeed, our ministers, together with the government, have implemented this reform of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development - a new municipal law has been introduced. The deposit system is in place. We think it will certainly be improved. It is created that we can build solar panels or these... alternative energy sources for our homes, the country is already providing us with support, so that we must become increasingly independent of our neighbour country. I thought... And also on behalf of our group... We also need to become independent in our minds. It is clear here that information and education is very important. Therefore, I wish my luck in the future to our Cabinet of Ministers and all of us. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U15	Thank you. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U16	I ask you to combine the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U17	Please combine the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U18	High Prime Minister! Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, First of all, Mr Kariņš, my compliments to you and your Government, especially to Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs, for your actions since 24 February this year. Prime Minister, I also very much appreciate your position and position on the issue of the consolidation of Latvian society. Our society - both Latvians and non-Latvians - can unite on the basis of common values, and everyone is given this opportunity. Of course not all will ultimately decide to use this opportunity, and not all Latvians will be ready to stop the burden of insulting the past immediately, for many will take time. Let us be patient and patient. We need all Latvians. Of course, we will not be able to accept those who support aggression and injustice; we will not be able to accept those who have not “one law - one justice for all”, but rather “one law - one justice for almost all, but entirely other laws and other justice for their own”, no matter who they are. But before accepting and isolating, we must do our utmost to explain, convince and integrate. Dear colleagues, We are united today in a common sense about what is black and what is white, because the crime is of no nationality, aggression is of no nationality, courage and heroism are of no nationality. Today, all our problems and all our challenges - the increase in the cost of life, the cost of energy, food, fuel prices - are getting away from the problems and challenges faced by the Ukrainian people. But that will not be the case forever, colleagues. This may not even be the case for a few months. War in Ukraine will not give us any relaxation, no discount, no indulgence regarding our responsibility for what is happening in our country. I'll remind you. Even before February 24 and even before the pandemic... With every year, we are becoming less and less. Our society is ageing. We are too little to maintain our regional infrastructure properly. Latvia is like two Belgium in terms of area, but our population is five times smaller than Belgium, and our productivity is much lower. The maintenance of all these infrastructures requires resources. Every year, we are increasingly experiencing labour shortages. Every year, we are lagging behind our neighbours. Unfortunately, we are already accustomed to the great lag from Estonia, but now we are also getting used to the lag from Lithuania. This gap from Lithuania has increased significantly over the last four years. Almost every fourth of Latvia's population is at risk of poverty. This proportion has increased significantly over the last four years. We have a chronic lack of funding in a number of public areas, especially in healthcare. I think I can't go on. We have made very serious commitments in the area of climate policy and the implementation of these commitments will cost a very high price. This price is so high that not only this government, but also the previous governments in this area, have systematically avoided the direct language. Of course, Prime Minister, at least two years of your government have been in the shadow of the community. And unlike... after 24 February... the positive assessment of the work of your government during this period is difficult. I'm not going to go on about that either. But what has also happened is the fight against the community. This called for more than seven billion euro loans, an increase in public debt, and, of course, it significantly narrows our room for manoeuvre in the future. This means that as interest rates rise, our costs will also increase, handling all this debt. Of course, those were all challenges, they were quite difficult already before 24 February. Unfortunately, our economic development model has been built over the last nearly 30 years, depending on Russia. It actually worked in Latvia... Above all, so to say, the backbone of the economy... both transit, transit of money and everything related to it (of course tourism) were directly dependent on the model of this bridge. It's not all right now. Now we need to build everything in fact without Russia. That is possible. There are countries in the world that have even managed to create very impressive success stories, without, to say, the advantages of their closest neighbours. We can mention Israel, which has created its success story without any confidence in its closest neighbours, the Arab country. We can mention - and you can smile - Singapore, which also created its success story without any confidence (on the contrary) towards its largest neighbour, China. All this is possible, but unfortunately - unfortunately! - As I read the government declaration once again in areas such as exports, innovation, education (especially higher education), science, productivity, I have to say that there is virtually nothing there, nothing significant has happened in the last four years. That is it, and you all know that it is it. We can build another Latvia 2050... this is (Interface.) ... but we, fellow Members, have to understand that, continuing to do...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U19	Thank you, thank you, the debate is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U20	Yeah, I'm sorry... Continuing as before, it is naive to hope for another result. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U21	Thank you, indeed, the debate is over. Dear colleagues, The debate will continue after the break. The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption also comes together for this break. A further statement. Dear colleagues, yesterday's birthday was celebrated by our fellow Member Uldis Augulis. We welcome him! (Applause) Happy birthday! Please call me! Please register the Members! Name Inese Voika to read the registration results as soon as they are ready.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U22	Colleagues! Not registered: Iveta Benhena-Beeken, Raimonds Bergmanis, Aigars Bikše... Aigars Bikše is, Aldis Blumbergs, Mārtiņš Bondars, Uldis Budriks (Interim: Yes!) )... Uldis Budrikis is, Andrejs Judins, Ivans Clementyevs, Rihards Kols, Armands Krauze, Janīna Kursīte, Linda Medne, Juris Pūce, Inguna Rībena, Dace Rukšāne–Ščipčinska, Karina Sprūde, Lubova Švecova, Edgars Tavars, Edmunds Teirumnieks, Vita Anda Steel, Viktors Valainis and Gatis Zamurs... Gatis Zamur is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U23	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U24	Dear colleagues, I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room. ( Pause) Please call me! Please register the Members! Please get the result! A total of 34 members have registered. I ask the group presidents to inform Members that the parliamentary sitting should continue. A break of five minutes. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U25	Please call me! Please register the Members! Please register the Members! Please get the result! 69 members registered. A quorum has been established. Colleagues, we can continue. We are continuing the debate after a break. Name of Minister for Culture Naurim Puntulis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U26	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very respectable. Prime Minister! Colleagues Ministers! Members! Dear Mrs. Eve Akurateres, sincere welcome! The cultural sector in the last two waves of the pandemic has been affected in the least possible way. And during the pandemic, the Ministry of Culture has set the goal not only to survive this pandemic, but to come out of it stronger and with the motto “At a time when we are denied to show, we are not denied to create it”. I would like to begin by thanking you very much. Thank you to the whole cultural sector, which has managed to preserve its creative spirit and create outstanding cultural values in all cultural areas in these incredibly difficult circumstances. The Ministry of Culture has had the task of providing this opportunity. And we have done this not only by establishing day-to-day support mechanisms, but also two future cultural programmes with promising funding. One of them - in cooperation with Altum... includes both a grant and a loan. And the second programme is a state-funded programme "Cultural ElPA", which has created outstanding cultural values in all areas of culture. Investing in the future and in the long term - this has been the main guide of the Ministry of Culture last year. Of course, first of all - investment in people, achieving - already for the second time in this government - an increase in wages, an increase for the whole cultural sector, creating strong support for both the Song Festival movement and national identity as a whole, and for the cultural support programmes mentioned above, all of which are structured in policy planning documents from which... together creating the most important of them – the new cultural policy guidelines for the next period (with a significant and contentful title – "Cultural State"). It is in the cultural sector that it is most difficult to distinguish between investment in infrastructure and investment in people. At the same time, pandemic time has provided opportunities and instruments for infrastructure development and improvement. We have used this opportunity with maximum capacity. It's already hard to find a cultural institution whose infrastructure in this period... Last year... which would not have undergone any improvement or major reconstruction work. And not only in Riga, but also in Liepaja, Valmiera and Rezekne - all over Latvia. From this range I will mention one of the most important investments in the future of our cultural education - the Kronvalda Boulevard 4 building, which we have just received at the Art Academy of Latvia and... at the same time as the future of all three cultural universities. During this year we have also managed to find a solution for unsolved cases such as the question of media remuneration, reduction of the value added tax rate for books and printed press and - finally - the 35-year battle for the construction of an acoustic concert hall in Riga. Media. Despite a four-fold increase in funding from the Media Support Fund, which this government has provided in the shorter term, the major changes have hit the public media. At present, it is already outside the advertising market. And now... A Public Electronic Media Council has been set up. I believe that the SEPLP will be able to meet its greatest challenge of ensuring a uniform... one, I would say, an identical information space for all Latvians, regardless of their ethnic background. A single society (contrary to a society with a dual community!) - it is, in my opinion, the greatest challenge of the SEPLP and, at the same time, the greatest responsibility. I will mention three priorities from the list of work to be done, and all that will be done will come here early or late - you, the Saeima, on the agenda. First of all, the implementation of the Latvian Historical Land Law. Secondly, the draft law, which we have been working on for years, is the "Law on Cultural Centres". And thirdly, changes in the Law on the Status of Creative Persons and Professional Creative Organisations, precisely defining their range according to the spirit of time. And in turn - an offer to arrange the tax field directly for creative persons. I will conclude my speech by saying thank you once again. Thank you to the cultural sector, which is undoubtedly one of the most affected sectors in the pandemic. However, despite this, today's support for Ukraine, the cultural sector is first in line, setting a model for us, for all the others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U27	Thank you to the Minister for Culture. Name to the Minister for the Interior, Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U28	I will ask you to bring my debates together. President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Mr. Prime Minister! Colleagues Ministers! Members! When, less than a year ago, I was in the office of Minister for the Interior, we could not imagine that we would soon see a hybrid operation organised by the Lukashenko regime on our external borders, as well as on the external borders of the European Union. And also that Putin will soon attack Ukraine, trying to take away its independent and European future. However, when this happened, in both cases, we were all ready to act together, and the government and the Saeima, in a consensus... agreed on new laws to adapt to this situation and resist attempts by authoritarian regimes to destabilise Europe and our country, and on the allocation of funding. We've been united. The ability to act together, regardless of the differences between the parties - both the position and the opposition. That is something that I appreciate as an internal minister. The Home Affairs Service - like the armed forces - is part of the security of the country. This is especially true in this tense time. That is why I submitted to the government a week ago an information report on the resources needed to strengthen the home affairs service. And I highly appreciate both the Prime Minister and fellow ministers' understanding of these needs. Some important steps have been taken to build the eastern border. The parameters of this essential infrastructure have been fully revised, as its earlier vision of what the border should be was the time of peace. The new project involves both wider bands, mobility and a more sustainable and modern infrastructure. For a short time this project stopped because of the increase caused by the war, but today... The Cabinet shall vote on new funding and a new contract. And we will move forward, works are not interrupted for any day, deforestation is taking place, border line preparation is taking place for construction. It is also planned to take two very important steps to strengthen the home affairs service in 2022. One such step is home affairs... transport security for the police, firemen and rescue workers. The second major step is to improve education and training. We are currently setting up an investigator training centre. This work doesn't want to be done. Regardless of the geopolitical situation, and despite other challenges facing the police, we also continue to work on the consortium "Internal Security Academy". These works are never stopped. I would like to thank both the government and the Members for the fact that this year's budget already shows a contribution to the remuneration of border guards, police officers, firemen and rescue workers working in services. And I would also like to highlight the funding allocated to national police education. We are now facing another unexpected challenge: the Ukrainian refugee crisis caused by Russian aggression. This is an unprecedented example of phenomenal cooperation between different ministries and between services... both with municipalities, the non-governmental sector and the residents of Latvia. Despite some difficulties, overall this process is carried out in a coordinated manner - and it is thanks to the contributions of all parties. Ukraine will need help for a long time, and I very much hope that we will not lose out. We have set up a system in which we cooperate, coordinate our work; representatives of various sectors, entrepreneurs who want to help, volunteers who provide support on a daily basis. Creating fears in Europe, especially in the Baltic States, is the aim of Putin's regime. We need to strengthen, above all, our psychological resilience, which is the most important in any crisis. No fence or material equipment, no machine in itself - they will not be the ones who will take care of our resilience and internal security. It will be done by people, both those who work in services and society as a whole. Of course, there is a great deal of responsibility on the services and a long time has been working under high stress and stress. Let us appreciate it and thank them for this very, very valuable work. It is very important for us not to allow provocation, trust in services and their work. Of course, it is also recommended improvements, but not losing sight, realizing that the stress conditions in which they are currently working are incomparable to what has been experienced in the past. At the moment, this is important for every citizen: to be aware of his preparedness for emergency action. Preparedness is important not only in the event of possible military threats, but also in the day-to-day context, as floods, storms and power disruptions are also possible threats in the day-to-day. The State Fire and Rescue Service has demonstrated its ability to effectively coordinate the work of municipal civil protection commissions in floods and fires. Currently, this is done by coordinating the reception of people from Ukraine. At this time, more than ever, we need to think about how to strengthen the unity of our societies. I think that anyone who has Latvia in the heart, feels Latvian and is ready to fight for its independence today is Latvian. It must not just become an ethnic or linguistic issue; it is first of all a matter of value and belonging. I think we need to be united, just as there is now a united West, a Europe. And we are all united with Ukraine. I believe that good victories will lead to the victory of today's totalitarian evil. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U29	Thank you to the Minister for the Interior. (Applause) The name to Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U30	I will ask for the time of my debate to be brought together.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U31	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U32	Thank you. Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Sir, Ministers! Colleagues! We are currently looking at the item of the agenda, which is the Prime Minister's annual report to the Saeima on the work done and the future of the Cabinet. For a very objective reason, the Prime Minister has not spoken so much about the previous period, but - from 24 February; it has a difficult objective reason. However, I will also take some note of what has been done in previous years, because in fact this report will also be the last annual report by this government to the Saeima. So, what's done, and what's perhaps not done? I will touch more on objective criticism, in this case more on such characterisation values. If we look at the list of Europe's richest countries, then unfortunately we do not see Latvia at the top, we see it at the bottom, and it is worrying that both Lithuania and Estonia - the two other Baltic countries - are able to show a breakthrough, while Latvia is lagging behind in this regard. Colleagues! We have dealt with the Covide in Parliament, the parliamentary committee of inquiry has finished its work, 86 pages of which contain various aspects where we see errors in the government's action. And in total, we can say that the governance of the community has been severe, chaotic. Often these decisions were not explained to the public. And unfortunately, the experts, too... left the government at the end of the day, because the cooperation failed. What else has happened in this period of time since this government is working? There has been a rapid rise in external debt, which has reached a record. This is a very frightening aspect, as the external debt of the country will have to be repaid. And it will have to be returned, probably to future governments, to future generations. Go on. Unfortunately, the amount of direct investment... If we look at what our colleagues in both other Baltic countries do in this respect, then we see that we are dramatically behind Lithuania and Estonia. And this lag is about 25 percent. Direct investment is extremely important as it provides both the highest possible added value and, of course, jobs. The number of people at risk of poverty is a very worrying aspect. If we look at and compare the figures for 2019 and 2020 then we see that, unfortunately, the number has even increased by 1.8 percent, according to data from the Central Statistical Office, and now has reached 23.4 percent. This is an extremely large number. We are talking about bringing the Northern European family closer, but we are not getting closer, but unfortunately far away. It has also to be said that the issue of dealing with the eastern border has not been addressed for a long time. I am talking now not only about the Latvian-Belarusian border, but also about the Latvian-Russia border. This issue - it is nothing new; it has already existed for a longer period, and this issue certainly needed to be dealt with much more intensively. Seven percent is a figure that is linked to energy poverty. This aspect is also very important. We have made legislative changes and defined what energy poverty is, and we are aware that, in fact, a large number of people are exposed to energy poverty and that this issue, of course, must also be addressed. What's worrying, colleagues... and, in my opinion, the main section... Our people... Our people, if we look at demographics, not growing, but... Unfortunately, these indicators are falling. And if we at least saw positive trends in this curve that... at least to reduce... As is happening in Estonia, we could say that we are at least in the right direction, but unfortunately this is not the case for the time being. Research funding. I think that would also be very important... It would be a recommendation in the form of a proposal - more funding for research, because if we are talking about economic breakthroughs, we cannot provide them without an increase in the research budget, especially by linking research with commercialisation. The Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Education and Science, working together, could bear enough fruit. Prime Minister, I did not criticise you personally; please do not take this into account because you have been able to ensure the functioning of the public administration, you have been able to be sufficiently successful in our foreign policy, representing the country internationally, as well as in the composition of a coalition, of a different strength; if we look at the political structure, then - even the opposite of my views on certain issues. But in any case, if we are talking about crisis management, then it must be said that the community was one of the tests. I think that management could have been much more successful. And if we are looking at developments in Ukraine right now, then we may still have a lot ahead of us, especially on economic issues, energy issues, and I look forward to dealing with them, but so far, I do not see hope that this crisis can be successfully overcome if we look at how the Co-Komb crisis has been overcome. But for our Latvian sake, I wish you luck. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U33	Thank you. Name Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Gatim Zamur.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U34	Hello! Please combine the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U35	Please combine the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U36	Hello, Madam President of the Saeima. Colleagues! Mr. Prime Minister and Ministers! Unfortunately, we are now living at a time when it is difficult to experience satisfaction and work... feeling of being All the speeches that we have heard today, including the talks, are often concentrated at one very difficult point, but we are sure that we are brave, and this time will also pass, we will be able to look back on what has been done and to appreciate it. A great deal still needs to be done, but there are, of course, a number of things that have been done, and in the context of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development I want to highlight three directions. First of all, municipalities. Administratively, territorial reform is one of the most important reforms implemented during the free country. It has entered into force last year. We have put an end to huge negotiations on how it should be, how it should be, that we have finished to fantasize about some ideal solutions. We have done this. We have created stronger municipalities in Latvia and are already seeing the first benefits from it. A number of municipalities have saved the budget resources that are currently allocated to the development of various new services and to the development of existing ones, such as birth grants and similar. Today, the law on referendums of local governments, which is to be discussed at the Saeima sitting, has been lying in committee drawers for 20 years. I very much hope that it will be approved today by the Saeima at third reading. It is an important and important instrument for the development of democracy in local governments, and it has long been time for its entry into force. In response to the Covid-19 pandemic, VARAM developed a loan and grant programme for municipalities, which was a significant cash support to regions in order to mitigate the economic impact of Covid-19, create new jobs and preserve existing ones. It provided vital support for road repair, reduction of kindergarten rows and development of the business environment in the regions. The second chapter, which is worth and important to talk about, is the green course and the circular economy. This year, the package deposit system has started, which is also a reform expected for 20 years. Latvians are already used to new and sustainable habits. I am sure that in a relatively short time, we will not be able to remember how we lived without this system and where all this package remained. The law on the reduction of the consumption of plastic products has entered into force, which significantly reduces the amount of disposable plastics. We will use less and less material that is useful to us for a few minutes, and then keep us in the country of Latvia forever. A national waste management plan has been adopted. Continuing on on the green course: many of you have followed a programme of support for the purchase of electric cars in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and achieve our climate targets. The transport sector is the third largest emitter of GHG emissions in Latvia. Support for household renewable energy installations is currently particularly topical. It is precisely about reducing energy prices and compensating for increases. This is also a huge step forward in ensuring our energy independence, which is particularly important in response to Russia's extensive military activity in Ukraine. These and many other initiatives are linked to the green course and our overall ambition to become climate-neutral in 2050. And the third section is digital transformation. We have approved the Digital Transformation Guidelines and have established the Single Customer Service Centres network of the State and municipality throughout Latvia, which gives every citizen, regardless of their place of residence, the opportunity to access services and receive support from digitally trained experts. A few words about the future. Our future challenges relate directly to energy issues in the context of both energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy... increasing and, of course, reducing dependence on a very aggressive and unpredictable supplier. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U37	Thank you. Name of Minister for Agriculture Kaspars Gerhard.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U38	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. Dear Members, Honourable Members! Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! In 2021, Latvia continued to implement a targeted agricultural policy by providing national and European Union support to strengthen the competitiveness of the sector. This has led to the sustainable development of agriculture, fisheries, food production and the forestry sector. A key condition for the long-term development of any sector is the ability of the country to create clear and understandable conditions for action and support. The Ministry of Agriculture has also ensured the continuity of aid between the various aid programming periods. In 2021 and 2022, 493.3 million euros are available in the Latvian Rural Development Programme for agriculture and rural development, including the European Union Recovery Facility funding - 84 million euros, and the funds available for direct payments during the transitional period - 683.2 million euros. This has made it possible to ensure that the sector is gradually moving towards the objectives set by the European Green course, strengthening the development of small and medium-sized farms, promoting the development of organic farming and environmental and climate investment. Here, I would particularly like to highlight the possibility for farmers to make new commitments in the payment of rural development areas, including the allocation of EUR 70 million to organic farming during the transitional period, as well as the allocation of EUR 15 million to projects for the development of small farms and more than EUR 4 million to start up young farmers. In 2021, we have strengthened small agricultural holdings by granting public aid in the form of lump sums of over 13.5 000 small-scale farmers - almost three million euros in total. In order to increase the competitiveness of the fisheries sector, last year we continued to implement the Action Programme for the Development of Fisheries 2014-2020. Of the EUR 183.5 million available, 99 percent have been reserved for project implementation. Considering the importance of science and modern learning process, in 2021 more than 4.5 million euros have been directed to improve infrastructure and logistical provision of educational institutions in the agricultural sector - Latvian University of Agriculture, Bulduri Secondary School of Gardening and Malnava Colleges. This year, a further EUR 22 million is planned to be invested. It should be noted that Latvian producers of agricultural, food and fishery products as well as forest products play an important role in the development of the Latvian economy. In 2021, exports of these products accounted for more than 40 per cent of the total export value of Latvia. Despite global and local challenges, Latvia's agricultural and food exports continued to increase in value terms as well in 2021. Last year it was four percent, or 108 million euros, higher than in 2020. In turn, the volume of Latvian forest sector exports in 2021 almost tripled imports and increased by more than 1.1 billion euros compared to 2020. Targeted and responsible forestry activities are carried out in Latvia. This is confirmed by the fact that forest areas continue to grow year on year and that, at the same time, the amount of timber accumulated in forests is growing. Half of all forests in Latvia are managed by the joint stock company “Latvian State Forests”, which takes care of the sustainable and responsible management of green gold in Latvia. In order to increase the value of forest capital and annual wood growth, last year “Latvia’s State Forests” carried out the maintenance works on an area of 31.7 thousand hectares. The increase in quality wood will also be supported in the future by the renewed forest land reclamation system of 18.9 thousand hectares. At the same time, effective management of state forests provides a significant contribution to the state budget. The operational economic results of the joint stock company “Latvijas valsts meži” show that last year the company concluded with a profit of 1304 million euros before tax, which is 54.3 million more than in 2020. In total, we spent 2021 on the Covid-19 pandemic map. The main priority of the Ministry of Agriculture at this time was to provide support to the sector so that it could maintain its competitiveness in these circumstances, but Latvian citizens would not have any concerns about the availability of food on the shelves of shops. Last year, as in 2020, Latvian farmers were able without delay to provide significant additional support to reduce the negative impact of the pandemic in a total of EUR 45.5 million. This funding has been important to strengthen the viability of farms, to compensate for the negative impact of the pandemic on income, to maintain the liquidity and cash flow of businesses and to ensure the fulfilment of credit obligations, and to implement the agricultural, fisheries and rural development security programme. The Ministry of Agriculture managed to achieve additional funding in the State budget of €15 million for support measures for breeding payments, scientific research, development of logistical capacity and support to small farmers in 2021. It has been an important support for livestock farms to continue their successful work, develop their business, produce quality milk and meat products and maintain their competitiveness. This year we will continue to invest resources in strengthening Latvian agriculture, fisheries, food production and the forest sector. This year, public subsidies for agriculture will continue to increase to a total of EUR 38.7 million, which will be the largest amount of funding allocated for this purpose in recent years. This aid will increase the competitiveness of entrepreneurs, while it will enable citizens to purchase quality local products at appropriate prices. In 2022, the state budget also allocated EUR 50 million for investments for improvement of the sector infrastructure of the Ministry of Agriculture and restoration of technical provision of the state functions of the restaurant, including investments in land reclamation systems and investments to achieve green rate objectives. I would like to note that last year the Ministry of Agriculture also made a practical contribution to limiting the pandemic in Latvia. In 2021 the National Scientific Institute “ Bior” developed testing capacities, increasing Covid-19 infection diagnostic capacity in Latvia. In turn, in order to predict an outbreak of the disease in various settlements, Bior started and this year continues to monitor waste water in Latvian cities, setting Covid-19 concentrations in them. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2021, long and complex concluding discussions were held at EU Member States, experts and political level on the conditions of the common agricultural policy for 2023-2027. Latvia has managed both to increase the amount of funding available to our farmers and to achieve conditions that would greatly assess the specific needs of Latvia. We know that the funding available for direct payments is more than 2.47 billion, which is EUR 758 million, or 44 percent more than in the previous period, for rural development support measures: EUR 790 million. In the years to come, EU and national aid is planned to reach farms, entrepreneurs and sectors of different sizes in a fair, targeted and balanced way. Overall, the most significant part of the financing of the strategic plan of the Latvian common agricultural policy, i.e. 48 percent, is planned to be directed towards the implementation of environmental and climate objectives in the form of various support instruments for agricultural practices that will invest in environmental and climate areas. The strategic plan for the future period of the common agricultural policy of Latvia was submitted by the Ministry of Agriculture to the European Commission in January this year. I would like to emphasise that more than 50 different thematic working groups took place during the development of this plan. The plan drawn up by the Ministry of Agriculture is the best possible compromise, taking into account the different views of the various interest groups on the development of the sector, the strategy and the direction of investment. This has been the result of intensive consultations with non-governmental and business organisations. Dear Members of the Committee. On the morning of February 24, this year, we woke up in a completely different world. The Russian invasion in Ukraine shocked not only the order of the democratic world. It undermined future plans and plans. The European Union is united in its position and action against Russia's aggression. Just as united, we will have to be able to face the shocks in the raw materials and food markets that this war brings with us not only within the European Union, but also globally. Today, I would like to emphasise clearly and clearly that Latvian food producers and farmers are fully able to meet the demand of the Latvian population in all major food groups, as well as to ensure the distribution of food products. Latvian farms and businesses are able to produce food more than is necessary for local consumption in Latvia. If we work ourselves, grow and produce ourselves, milk, meat, grain products we will have. Figures in sectors such as... milk and milk products, cereals, eggs, beef and its products, sheep and goat meat - self-sufficiency exceeds 100 percent, allowing Latvian producers to also export these products, for example, Latvia produces 3.7 times more cereals, twice more beef and beef products, 1.7 times more eggs than it consumes. The Latvian food industry demonstrated its ability to provide the people of Latvia with food in the necessary quantity during the Covid-19 pandemic. Unlike other countries, food products in Latvian retail stores were available in a wide range and without disruption of supply. In response to the possible negative impact of the pandemic in various sectors of the economy, the Ministry of Agriculture has since 2020 strengthened coordination and cooperation with the food industry, which resulted in the rapid development and timely implementation of the necessary support mechanisms for farmers. Also today, when Russia's war has resulted in a rapid increase in prices not only for fuel, but also for fertilisers, energy and other raw materials necessary for the production of agricultural products, the Ministry of Agriculture is acting operationally. In response to the current situation on the fuel market, in order to reduce the impact of the rise in fuel prices on farmers, farmers are already able to receive advanced-labelled diesel with a reduced excise duty for the 2022, 2023, financial years. Similarly, farmers can already apply for a short-term interest-free loan to compensate for the rapid increase in production costs, which will be cleared from the single area payment granted to farmers in the autumn. Solutions will need to be sought at both national and European level. At the beginning of next week, we will discuss the situation on the agri-food market with the European Commission and the Member States. Negotiations are planned on the strategic plans of the Member States of the European Union's common agricultural policy and on the directions contained therein, which were established prior to Russia's invasion in Ukraine. Russia's war in Ukraine and its consequences may lead to a reassessment of the strategic directions of the plan, strengthening the resilience of the agricultural sector to its main objective of providing the society with safe food to the extent necessary. Now, after Russia's invasion of Ukraine, things that previously seemed self-evident have gained new meaning. Let us appreciate that we are living in our own country - free and independent - where there is no air alarm sirens and where we feel secure, where we and our children have free access to food, drinking water, electricity and heat. Today I would like to take the opportunity to thank you - I would like to conclude by thanking all Latvian food producers who responded to the call from the Ministry of Agriculture to donate food to Ukraine. Your contribution strengthens the Ukrainian people in their struggle for their country and country. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U39	Thank you to the Minister for Agriculture. The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U40	Please combine both times.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U41	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U42	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Sir, Dear Ministers, Dear Members and Members, What do you say? This is not an easy time for the Saeima, this is not an easy time for Latvian residents; this is definitely not an easy time for the Cabinet of Ministers. One crisis after the other, colleagues, is the Covid crisis, the hybrid war on the border of Belarus, Russia's invasion of Ukraine and the subsequent economic challenges. All this has, of course, complicated the situation and created many challenges for all of us. And in this respect, I would like to thank both existing and former ministers from the Cabinet - thank you for your endurance and the work you have done in this time. During this time... I think you will probably be older than 14 years instead of four. ( Laughs.) (See paragraph 4.5 of this Regulation.) So - thank you for your own contribution, and indeed - already! - that people will also appreciate. With regard to those things that could probably be improved for the Cabinet of Ministers, here I would like to touch both the Prime Minister and... concrete things, where I believe there is something to be improved, but also other things... Minister, let's say, done and required. First of all, I would like to call on the Prime Minister to point out that, at this time, I think, this has been the most dangerous and most serious crisis... what is now... with Russia's invasion of Ukraine... what has been the case in the last 30 years. And at this time, I would like to see more communication with Parliament - just as we see, for example, in London, where the UK Parliament is not only actively debating with the Prime Minister about the current situation, but also inviting the President of Ukraine; a few minutes... Within a couple of hours, the President of Ukraine is given the opportunity to send a digital message to members of the Parliament, for example. And here's probably a rock in the Saeima garden... a little bit about this organisational issue. At such times of crisis, I believe that communication is very important: Members' views must also be heard and the future, let us say, view must be reconciled. It should certainly be more active. Go on. I want to touch those... also for essential blocks. First. Let's start with resources. There is a lot of question as to how much gas we pay, how much gas we pay to Ukraine. Recently, looking at this issue at the meeting of the Commission on Public Expenditure and Audit... According to studies of Riga Technical University, Latvia on gas... to Russia pays around EUR 400 million a year. Only Latvia. We also hear in the public media representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers and their vice-presidents who say that yes, we must put pressure on the European Union to give up this Russian gas as soon as possible. Yes, of course. But we also have the opportunity to do it ourselves before... faster than other countries. Maybe, let's say, in other parts of Europe, it's still thinking about... And to put it just... perspective... 400 million a year, which we transfer to Russia for gas... Colleagues, this is more than half of Latvia's defence budget. Let us look at another perspective. The latest Russian tanks pay... about four million per tank... manufacturing. It turns out that the state of Latvia takes Russians about a hundred tanks a year... In this situation, where we have to fight for Ukraine and Ukraine to fight for the current order and for security on the European continent, this, I think, must stop. We really need to work on alternative options until we are able to fully replace gas. You have to diversify it... We have been talking about this, Conservatives have been talking about it for several years. So the LNG terminal... It is a pleasure to hear that the Prime Minister also mentioned in his speech that this is finally also on the government's agenda. Of course, the Klaipeda terminal is also capable of providing this, but in order for us to be able to ensure the diversification of these gases and energy sources throughout the region, it would probably be better to do it for ourselves than to allow Estonians, for example, to build it before us. So I hope that there will be some progress in that regard in the near future. With regard to other energy issues. The Ministry of Economics has good experience in improving the energy efficiency of businesses and households... Of course, we can consume less, it also helps to share, say, story. There are also municipalities. ‘ Riga Heat’... The municipal institution “Rīgas silos” plans to build several new cogeneration stations this year, thus diversifying dependence on Russian gas. At the same time, however, there are municipalities such as Daugavpils where we do not see significant improvements: as the whole winter heating comes from Russian gas, and now it seems that it is continuing. And there probably... It would be work for the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development - to work with these types of municipalities and really change something about their situation. If we are talking about energy production as such, Latvia, I believe that it is now necessary to review the financing of European Union funds, especially the reconstruction and resilience fund; we also have the opportunity to borrow further from the financing of the reconstruction and sustainability fund and to significantly increase our electricity generation capacity. Currently, Latvia produces about 75 percent of its electricity needs. Colleagues, we can certainly produce more than 100 percent... and not only completely all your consumption, but also export. What I want to mention is internal security. Here, I just want to stress... Whereas it's time to end... and suggest the members of the Cabinet of Ministers to really drive and visit Daugavpils, to visit Latgale, where internal security must be strengthened first. I see the members of the Cabinet of Ministers... Working actively in Europe in foreign policy... That is very good, but let us not forget about internal security! We're going to visit Daugavpils, we're going to deal with the kind of incidents that we've just seen -- this music school... and, finally, the flag removed at the music school. I think political leadership needs to show that we are with Latgale, we are convinced of its place in Latvia and support its inhabitants. Thank you, colleagues. I wish success and endurance in the future. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U43	Thank you. Thank you. Time. Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U44	Please combine the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U45	Please combine the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U46	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear Prime Minister, Ministers! Members of the Saeima! In the foreign policy debate, I said two months ago: we must not allow the Kremlin to expand its tentacles in Europe. These sightings must be removed before they stick to European countries. Ukraine does not want to be subject to Russia, so the democratic countries of Europe must support Ukraine's efforts to maintain its independence. Foreign policy debate is a very good format in which, however, more or less we are all able to find some common denominators, how Latvian foreign policy should be shaped. In Latvia's foreign policy, we work as a whole as a team, regardless of who... We represent Latvia very well on the international stage. We set an example for the whole world. In the field of defence there is a consensus in Latvia that our physical security needs to be strengthened. We agree that protection should cost at least two per cent of gross domestic product. Opinions differ only as to the most effective way to use these tools. Over a few weeks more than a thousand Latvian citizens, who are members of different political forces, have responded to the call to join the Earthguard. Among those who are fighting in Ukraine, in the Ukrainian War of Independence, are representatives of various political forces. Almost all representatives of Latvian political forces can be met in picket against the Kremlin's criminal war. It's a fantastic unity. And it must be used to further strengthen our defence. We must achieve an even greater presence of NATO forces in the Baltic States. We must ensure that in Latvia the air defence systems Patriot are deployed in the nearest future. We should also achieve such unity in our internal policies. This is not the right time for political jealousy or populism. We can each bring forward draft laws that have a huge budgetary impact. We have all noticed the rise in fuel prices, and I would not want us to compete for a greater reduction in VAT or excise duty, as a result... causing disappointment in society that one or the other proposal has been rejected. I think that at the moment we would need to create a mechanism for all the parties represented in the Saeima to discuss laws, draft laws, which have a major budgetary impact. At this point in time, we would need the Kremlin to be unable to use this negative social issue against us. This is the time to eliminate Russia's influence in Latvia. This must be done quickly. All the steps in this direction are right and right. Therefore, I call for a waiver of political jealousy and for rapid progress to be made. For example, Conservatives have prepared good amendments to the Sport Law, the ZZS - a good project on internal border security, the National Association - on education in the state language. Yes, all these draft laws have discussed and clarifyable details, all of which can be done at second reading, and not - reject the initiative simply because it has been tabled by a "uncorrect" political party. This is not the right time. Let's have one another after another. We have a number of frozen problems that have not been addressed for a long time. And now we have to decide what we're going to do... for example, with the symbols of the Russian Empire, monuments of propaganda. What about non-governmental organisations and political forces that have fed the Russian funds? If Russia is a criminal state and, as some call it, even a terrorist state, what are the organisations that receive funding from criminals? Without distinction of nationality, what will we do with those citizens who are open to the Russian side - against Latvia's independence? Do they have to live in Latvia, which they hate so much? How long will the Latvian “face” in the European Parliament be Tatjan Ždanoka? Are we prepared to agree on a wider mandate in the Citizenship Law for those who should not have obtained Latvian citizenship (e.g. Mr Avena)? The front is a difficult but opportunity-rich time. May we make Latvia much stronger! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U47	Thank you. Name Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs Ilze Indricson.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U48	Could we unite the times of the debate?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U49	Please combine the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U50	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Prime Ministers! Prime Minister! Colleagues! Today we are in a situation that poses great challenges for us - for the state, for business and for every family. Together we are ready to overcome the difficulties and help those who are fighting for us today. I would like to emphasise that the Ukrainian flags are going not only to state institutions and cultural institutions (and no flag has been removed from any cultural institution and will not be removed), but also that entrepreneurs are supporting Ukraine - they are supporting the country with each citizen, and they are also drawing flags to companies. For all of us, 2021 was a year of great challenges. The Covid–19 pandemic continued to affect the socio-economic situation both globally and in Latvia. In the second half of the year, the rise in energy prices created additional tensions for both businesses and every household. Although the situation is still complex and does not become simpler at present, not at all, in the fourth quarter of 2021 gross domestic product... In the turn of the year, there was an increase of 3.5 percent and in total there was an increase of 4.8 percent in 2021. And it was provided by our businessmen. Economic recovery is based on an increase in exports - an increase in exports of goods and services. In 2021, goods exports grew by 5.9 percent, reaching the highest export value so far. Processing industry. As a result of the increase in exports, the industry achieved 7.4 percent growth in the last year. Investment has also increased in 2021 (in particular in machinery and equipment, as well as in intellectual property products). The added value of the information technology sector has increased by 11 percent. Of course, the community also had to provide additional support, and in cooperation with the financial institution Altum, the Investment and Development Agency of Latvia and the State Revenue Service we continued to implement support programmes for our entrepreneurs and citizens - not only for the preservation of jobs, but also for the continuation of activities (in particular - the preservation and even expansion of export capacity). The National Industrial Policy Guidelines 2021-2027 have been approved for the promotion of entrepreneurship. Our objective is to significantly increase exports: up to 22 billion in 2023 and 27-2027. An important opportunity for creating new added value is provided by the extension of the cluster support programme and the implementation of the business incubator programme, which was crucial in order to keep entrepreneurs in a position to change and grow with new products and new services. The large investment fund has been established to ensure the reindustrialisation process of the Latvian economy. This will provide support for investment in excess of EUR 10 million... loans with a capital discount on favourable terms. The Innovation Fund Research Programme initiative was approved in 2021 to promote innovation. Four million will be invested over three years. Every year we will support - and as the first we will support - projects in areas of smart specialisation in Latvia. This is the first major contribution to the creation of value-added business products from high scientific achievements. The creation of a "green corridor" of priority investments should be mentioned as the most important performance in improving Latvia's investment environment in 2021. By the end of 2021, nine investment projects with a total contribution of EUR 103 million and 629 jobs were approved under the Green Corridor. The expansion of export opportunities - with wide resonance and new cooperation agreements for Latvian entrepreneurs - has started Latvia's participation in the international exhibition Expo 2020 for Dubai. No matter how bitter and perhaps the previous experience has been, this exhibition has made a great contribution - 16 events have been organised. already 145 Latvian companies have participated in the business events. Latvian companies have signed several cooperation agreements, and 25 projects have already been launched in the tourism sector, food sector and space sector. We have also worked to promote access to housing. In 2021, a new apartment house renovation loan programme of EUR 31 million was launched - for the repair of apartment house sharing rooms and for the improvement of the territory. A new state aid programme to improve the energy efficiency of private households has also been launched. The residential rental law has been improved, ensuring a fair balance between the interests of tenants and tenants. And a new framework for the energy performance of buildings has been developed, reducing red tape and costs in the preparation of temporary energy certificates for buildings. In the construction sector, too, 2021 was full of significant decisions and improvements. Amendments to the Construction Law came into force, which more clearly determines the responsibility of each participant in the construction process. To boost economic growth in 2022, we will launch support programmes for the new programming period of the European Recovery Fund and the Structural Funds totalling more than €1.6 billion. Support measures for digitisation, access to housing, economic transformation, productivity and, most importantly, energy efficiency will be available. The best energy is, of course, what we do not spend. Energy independence and security are clearly our priority: increasing electricity generation capacity towards wind, solar energy, the transition to renewable sources, including the replacement of heating in both private and central heating. The boiler programme is new, just as approved. Change of direction of gas supply and development of biomethane production, supply of gas from Klaipeda terminal, possibilities of LNG terminal development in Latvia are also evaluated. There are now three real cooperation proposals. In order to reduce the impact of the increase in electricity prices and the effects of the increase in gas prices, aid measures were already developed in autumn 2021. From 1 January to 30 April this year, four support measures are available to households and legal entities to reduce electricity, heat and gas costs. The government also decided to extend social support to families with children, seniors and people with disabilities. Currently, when assessing the socio-economic impact of energy availability and price increases, we have called on the Ministry of Welfare to prepare without delay for providing support to vulnerable people, for whom the rise in energy prices may prevent their availability. The war in Ukraine is on the agenda of the Ministry of Economics every day.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U51	Thank you. The debate time...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U52	It is entrepreneurs who ensure the growth of our Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U53	Thank you. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U54	Good afternoon, Prime Minister. Ministers! Members of the Saeima! Mr Prime Minister, Mr Kariņš, your words about the need to strengthen society for all - irrespective of political sympathy and ethnic origin - do not go unnoticed in society and are perceived with understanding. Your gratitude does not go unnoticed and creates an acceptable thank you, just as the President of Latvia has said, Mr Levit, that all the people of Latvia are together with Ukraine, regardless of the people's nationality or language in which they speak in the family. It's not important, Mr. Levite said, it's important that a person is a patriot of Latvia, that he knows what justice and rights are, that the nation's right to self-determination is sacred. Against this background, events are taking place on Earth that contradict the words of the statesmen. On 25 February, the Minister of Education and Science Anita Muižniece, expressing concern about the fundamental values of the state and standing up for further strengthening of the state language, called on all children living in Latvia to provide an opportunity to acquire education only in the state language. The Minister openly stated that her proposal is important right now that Russia's intervention is taking place in Ukraine. On 28 February, the government coalition supported the transition to education in only the state language within six years. You were telling the public about this, Mr. Kariņš. I draw your attention, Mr Kariņš, to the fact that these intentions of the parties belonging to the coalition of the government have led to indignation in society and undermine the confidence of the people belonging to the national minorities of Latvia in the government. The current attack on the use of national minority languages is directed objectively first against Russian, where 37 percent of the country's population speaks at home. The same things that the President of Latvia spoke about. 96 percent of pupils belonging to national minorities learn Russian in part. If the ruling parties are to implement their intention, then even more opportunities to learn Russian language for children from Russian-owned families, regardless of their ethnic origin, will be restricted because, unlike other minority languages in Latvia, education in Russian is not protected by agreements with the countries of origin of this language. I also conclude that the transition to education in Latvian is deliberately initiated now, during the Russian invasion, in the hope that the Russian diaspora in Latvia can be demoralized and unable to demonstrate effective resistance to the final elimination of Russian language in schools. I draw the attention of Mrs Muižniece to the fact that Latvia has long been providing education in the state language. However, as early as 2018, 55 thousand students from around 40 thousand families received education in Russian minority education programmes. They had every opportunity to send children to Latvian schools, but they chose to teach in their family language. Mr Kariņš, you said that it was important to strengthen the unity and cohesion of society. No one will object to it in society, in the country and in the Saeima. However, you called a single school system, which does not divide children according to their mother tongue and which will be based on national language learning, a system where children will no longer be sorted according to their mother tongue. That's a mistake, Mr. Karin. Schools are different, not because they decide the country, but because people are different in the country. Diversity is our fundamental value - it was written on the Latvian People's Front flags and in the sections of the Latvian People's Front documents. I was a front member myself. I well remember the discussions that developed in 1989 and 1990. If I hadn't raised that slogan... on the flag, would not be present-day Latvia. And I closed my speech with the following call: Mr. Kariņš, please do not let the tragic events under cover violate the rights of minorities and destroy the teachings in Russian in Latvia! Thank you for your attention and I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U55	Thank you. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U56	Dear President, Honourable Members! So three myths. ( Thank you for speaking to Mr. Pimenova.) So integration has completely failed in Latvia. We have to admit that, and we don't have to deceive ourselves. Last data - Ukraine supports 90 percent of Latvian speakers, 22 percent of Russian speakers. Latvia is the only country in the European Union where two totally different peoples live in one territory - culturally and with different civilizations. If you look at Switzerland, Belgium, Finland, all nations or ethnic groups have their own territory where they have lived for thousands of years. It's like on the island of Rones or on the island of Hiiuma - Swedes lived for 1,000 years and left. There, of course, they could speak Swedish. There is a people of foreign civilisation who speak a foreign language that has no territory. Until we have complete training in Latvian in kindergartens... I'm not talking about nationality here, I'm talking about language, because language determines thinking... until the first day, this training will not be in Latvian, there will be no integration. And you see the result. Look (various survey data vary, varies) - from 80 to 90 percent of Latvian support to Ukraine, 22 percent Russian-speaking support, 25 percent maximum, others avoid - either they don't answer or what. It shows the complete, regrettable craju of this education that we have had. That's the first minus. Second. Moscow Patriarchy. Moscow Patriarch gives a saint to Commander Zolotov of the Russian National Guard and says that this saint will help to kill Ukrainians. This is integration. Latvia - St. Trinity: A monument to the occupying troops in Pārdaugava, which we cannot break down, the Patriarchy of Moscow and Russian schools. And there will be no integration. I am not saying that it cannot exist, but we do not need to talk about some kind of integration here, we need to be honest about it. Just now, the Russian consul allowed himself to go out and threaten the people gathered in Liepaja just because they stood under the Ukrainian flag. It was on a third day. He thought that Ukraine would collapse immediately and that the Baltic countries would be coming, and - we will show you! The outstanding Russian writer ( well, I have no name) said that Putin and the Russian people are twins in Russia. There's nothing else we're telling here that there's a bad Putin and a good people, they're twins. 90 percent of Russia supports both this invasion and the rest. Second myth. Klaipeda Terminal. For energy. The Klaipeda terminal can be served in the season... gas, what... produces about 40 terawatt hours. The consumption of the Baltic States, three Baltic countries is 35 terawatt hours: 20 for Lithuania, 10 for Latvia, five for Estonia. We're saying we're gonna build the other. Instead of spending money on building a reactor. Finland has six nuclear reactors, Sweden has 10. What a nightmare! The European Commission has said that we will give up gas at all within seven years. Instead of talking, no matter... The Prime Minister mentioned - either these small reactors - Rolls-Royce (now produced in mass) or, like Finland, accurate nuclear reactors. We are telling you that gas will continue to work. And the third. It's a little too bad for the green course. Prime Minister, do you know that one electric car produces 70 percent more emissions than a conventional car? These are Volvo data, find out. If you drive well, you'll just sort out emissions in nine to ten years. In electric transport, the consumption of copper cables increases about four times. Look at this! Prices have also increased four times during the year. There are no copper mines in any democratic country - neither in the European Union nor in America. North Korea is great - second place in the world... Third, the first one is Morocco... and other African countries. Next. Rare metals for this green course, artificial intelligence for the same cars. China and Russia - 90 percent of rare metals. At the moment, we have a problem with prices, with a crisis, but we are telling us that we are now going to make a green course and "let's give" as Americans. They have frozen shale gas now, from 700 billion cubic metres to twice as small... There is no excessive gas, and I am looking at the Congress debate - from Venezuela. Congressmen say, “But there’s no human rights there, dear!” - “Nothing, I and Maduro will talk to them so that thousands of people who sit there stay in prison don’t wear, as they say, with electric current, only with rubber pipes. We'll buy it from there." And, you know... So wishful thinking, we now have to give up on it.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U57	Thank you. Name to Member Uldis Budric.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U58	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Prime Minister! Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, In such cases, this tribunal always tries to criticise the Prime Minister's work. I'm not saying everything's bad. Not at all. On the understanding that the last two years, almost the entire parliamentary term, have also passed through crises, this is government... The government has only been in crises. Unfortunately, we have not learned great lessons from mistakes (from the date of the community). And its main mistake could be communication - communication with Parliament, with citizens, with the people. There are very many questions at the moment; it is quite understandable that there are very, very many questions in such situations. As I said, I am not saying that everything is bad. We have an education minister who is very well reformulating, and so that I do not only praise the ministers of my party - starting with the new crisis on 24 February, the Foreign Minister is really good at reforming, welcome, with a plus sign. However, what I would like to say in relation to communication (a pity that the Minister of the Interior is no longer here, so I will devote this to Mr Stein as Parliamentary Secretary), from the crisis at the border of Belarus, the issue of borders - in the process, in the civil protection plan - in the process... We are. It's 22nd day after the war began. Everything's in the process. Instead, we have two new working groups, a new OLG, but communication - the only one that has come out - is that the municipalities are guilty, even though the team centre is in the Ministry of the Interior. This is my only accusation. And in relation to the municipalities. In view of the events of 24 February, it seems to me that a clear message must come from this platform and a clear message must come from the Cabinet of Ministers... a clear message must come from all of you, fellow Members. May 9th is coming. At a time when civil houses are being bombed in Ukraine, civilians are dying, theatres are being bombed, there are at least 500 people under ruins, we cannot - we cannot! - allow occupation famous events in Latvia. I call on all municipal leaders to take a decision from this troupe and to prevent occupations from taking place on 9 May! So in sum: to take - perhaps for the Prime Minister - greater coordination in migration policy, because obviously there is no communication and coordination in the Ministry of the Interior, and to prevent local authorities from taking action on 9 May. Colleagues, we have one thing in the Saeima that we can do in practice to help the Ukrainians. Lithuania and Estonia (Estonia - last week, Lithuania - today) came out with notifications... from their parliaments... with a request to the United Nations to close airspace above the humanitarian corridors in Ukraine. It's not just NATO... work. The main humanitarian organisation in the world is the United Nations. The fact that we call NATO... All right, the Ukrainians want NATO, it is their choice, but the United Nations Member States, the whole world, should unite and prevent this humanitarian crisis. I hope that, in the near future, perhaps next week, we will move such a statement from Parliament. (Applause) And the last one. Welcome to Mr Pimenova. I invite you to read your oath. There is one national language. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U59	Name to Member Viesturs Liepkalne.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U60	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very respectable. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. Dear Members and honourable Members, Looking at the past year of the government of Krišjānis Kariņš, it has been to a large extent a success. There have been a number of challenges on the government's agenda caused by both the Covid-19 pandemic and the migrant crisis caused by Belarus' authoritarian leader Lukashenko. They have also been accompanied by an increase in energy prices. At the same time, the government has been able to carry out reforms that are important for our country's future development. Undoubtedly - the criticism of the opposition has been harsh, and sometimes not without foundation, but it is the work of the opposition Members - to criticise, because the government must not at any time become complacent... network. The ability to critically look at and evaluate its work is the essential quality of any development-oriented person, organisation and political party. As I have already mentioned, 2021, like 2020, has been left under the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic. It introduced its adjustments into the daily life of citizens, as well as into entrepreneurship and its development. For some sectors, state aid was even a matter of survival, and Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš' government did a great deal of work here. Unfortunately, however, at a time when our main objective would have been to increase the competitiveness, productivity and investment of our economy, Ukraine, its people and the international community were shocked by the brutal and bloody invasion of the occupying army. Today - even more than ever - we need to hold a firm position with regard to Russia and the sanctions imposed on it, at the same time knowing that our country can also be brought into economic recession. I would like to say that freedom and independence also have their own price. I am convinced that it is better to pay it with the euro than the Ukrainians are doing at the moment. The impact of sanctions on the Latvian economy is felt today. Road construction companies almost every day warn about the inability to start the road renewal season, because due to market fluctuations, even the main raw materials - bitumen, gas, fuel - are no longer available at the contract prices. A number of major construction projects - both in the private sector and in public and municipal orders - are also frozen by each other, because the price and lack of resources simply makes all of this impossible. Farmers will immediately start sowing time, but fertiliser supply chains are under threat. At a time when Ukrainian grain fields are in fire, the output efficiency of our agricultural production is also below high risk. However, supply chains are not the only challenge. We also have no reason to be optimistic about the volume of foreign investment over the next year. Even though we are a member of the European Union and NATO, the investor-perception of investment security in our region will remain very high. I would also like to point out what the Prime Minister said about the Latvian economy. Unfortunately, a large number of indicators have stagnated and are without any significant improvement. A survey on the mood of entrepreneurs carried out by the Business University also shows a very painful picture: 48 percent of Latvian entrepreneurs describe the business environment of Latvia as bad. These data clearly confirm the fundamental gap between public administration and business, the lack of mutual trust. Symbolically, this was pointed out by a recently met businessman who said so: we seem to have forgotten to talk and to have a dialogue. Dear colleagues, In view of all the above, I call on each of us to be aware of the current and future challenges facing the Latvian economy. The government must also start work today to develop a plan to mitigate the effects of the next economic crisis. We also need a restart of mutual relations, a new dialogue - both sectoral and policy-makers - in order to promote active local capital investments. We must be able to find a solution to ease the bureaucratic burden. We must continue to improve tax policy. We must be able to help entrepreneurs to shift from the Belarusian and Russian markets, as well as to take many other measures to improve the business environment. Of course, entrepreneurs are also used to working under changing market conditions. And this time too, one can clearly say that supply chains will be replanned, entrepreneurs will continue to develop. But a much bigger effect will be if we finally start playing in one team. This should be one of the main priorities of this government. Dear colleagues, thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U61	Thank you. Colleagues, we will continue the debate after a break. Please call me! Please register the Members! The name to the Member, Kaspars Girgen, for the announcement.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U62	Dear colleagues, The meeting will immediately be held by the Group of MEPs in support of patients with rare diseases. Get in the house. It will take place in the Red Hall. Remotely you can connect to the sent link. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U63	Thank you. The name to the Member, Alexander Kirštein, for the statement.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U64	Ladies and gentlemen, those who want to listen to the Financial Intelligence Service's report on the freezing of the financial resources of citizens supporting the conflict between Russia and Ukraine! Commission meeting started... Sub-committee meeting of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission for the Supervision of the Financial Sector - at the premises of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U65	Thank you. Name Inese Voika - registration results.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U66	Colleagues! Not registered: Iveta Benhena-Beeken, Raimonds Bergmanis, Aldis Blumbergs, Mārtiņš Bondars, Andrejs Judin, Ivans Klementyevs, Rihards Kols, Armands Krauze, Janīna Kursīte, Linda Medne, Juris Pūce, Inguna Ribena, Dace Rukšāne-Ščipčinska, Karina Sprūde, Lubova Švecova, Edgars Tavars, Edmunds Teirumnieks, Vita Anda Steela, Jānis Urbanovičs and Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U67	Thank you. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U68	Dear colleagues, I call for seats to be held in the Saeima's meeting room. On the agenda - under the heading ‘Reports by the Prime Minister, Ministers and other officials’. Annual report by Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš The Saeima on the work done and planned by the Cabinet of Ministers. After a break, we continue the debate on the Prime Minister's report. The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville. The speaker has asked for the time of the debate to be brought together. Please combine the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U69	Hello, colleagues! This year...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U70	Wait, wait a second! Please combine the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U71	Yes, yes?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U72	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U73	Thank you. The time for the country has not come from the lightest. It will be noted that public administration and we, the Saeima, are only able to focus on one job and one problem. In this case, the problem is what happened on 24 February, when the world woke up in another reality. As we wake up in another reality, our internal problems suddenly disappear as they were. I understand Ukraine, I understand the suffering of the Ukrainian people. I am totally against the war as a way to solve the problems. But it is also important for us to do everything in our own home so that the people are united in this situation and that there are no problems for themselves... Inside, that there may be no fifth column for us, to wait for foreign tanks with flowers, if there be any. It will be recognised that the people in these two years... since the famous Covid crisis is broken - broken by signs... This is far from acceptable in a normal society. I believe that the Prime Minister's call to join forces must be taken into account, to focus on everything that happens in a country that is taking place in the world, but I stress once again: it is important for us to understand what happens to us ourselves. At present, some 60,000 people are still in a wrong situation: they still cannot work in their profession, earn income and cannot expect any future, because they are now denied it because they have not complied with the rules relating to obtaining the QR code. I have called many times, even when the war started: please remove all restrictions, because they are not justified at the moment. Let us allow our citizens to put their lives in order, get back to work, and stop sharing them! Stop sharing! Unfortunately, I have not found hearing ears; it always ends with all the proposals being rejected and thrown into waste - both me and my fellow Members. I have the positive thing to say... result... in that I have met both sides - I have been on the side of the government at the time - I am on the other side. I would very much like to believe that things have changed since we were asked to leave the government and that this attitude towards opposition proposals has changed, although it is not visible on a daily basis. All opposition proposals are still rejected. And then they return with amazing regularity, that is, in two weeks' time they return to the Saeima's agenda, only - now as positions are offered. For the purely technical things that are happening at the moment. We adopt laws to support refugees, allow them to get a job, shelter, livelihoods, but forget about their own. I remind you once again that we forget about our people! I also invite the Prime Minister to pay attention to this issue and to the next meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers... not wait for April 1, but abolish all these restrictions at the first meeting of the Cabinet. The longer this problem will take off, the more severe it will be. This is not the time for civil servants' games; this is the time for rapid action. Instead of waiting for some mystical figures, do it now, now. State and state action. We are at the moment in war, and I think that things that are of little importance should be put aside at the moment - even the introduction of a green course, even if everything else. We are talking hypocritically about the green course if we wear rags that, after being discarded, pollute nature much more than well equipped and relatively young cars with emissions. The attempt to curb agriculture with this green course is also, in my opinion, a criminal deal, because Latvia is a country that produces food; we deliberately slow down this development by blindly following the exercise of officials. Colleagues! I call for a very serious focus on these problems, which are now, to free citizens from this burden that we have imposed. I call on the Prime Minister to pay maximum attention to this and to act now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U74	Thank you. The name of Member Ramona Petraviča.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U75	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. Colleagues! War must not be used as a cover to cover errors and omissions. It is very good that the entire Cabinet works in Tandem to help refugees by supporting them. However, I would like to remind you that there are also people in our country who need help that has not yet left our country. That is why I will be speaking specifically about the people of our country. The government has worked in the face of crisis, inability to make decisions, in the way it is adopted, in the rushing and delaying of support for those people who have been banned themselves from working, have denied the opportunity to work. And now... There is talk of people's unity on the issue of Ukraine's war, but I would like to remind you that our government has made people subject to cruel discrimination for two years, forcing them to make decisions that they would never take on their own. That is, I am talking about vaccination at the moment. The government has done everything possible to salute the people of our country, to divide and polarise society. And at the same time, a smile and intolerance treated those people who remained firm in their persuasion. ( Internouncing call.) Also, older people tried to break down and sanitize by offering a 20-euro allowance - as compensation for the charge of electricity, heating, gas and food - only to vaccinees. Only because of the pressure of the opposition, they were forced to allocate EUR 20 to unvaccinated seniors. And there is still no plan to help older people, people with low incomes; how to overcome the rapid rise in prices not only for electricity and heating, but also for food and fuel. And there is no discussion, for example, about double indexation of the pension, which would really be true care for our seniors, not just empty words. Reduce excise duty on fuel and value added tax - these would be mechanisms to help their citizens. This is the time when our businessmen and our people must cease to be dressed, but come to help, as other countries do at present - Poland, Germany, France. In our country, 62,000 people were denied the opportunity to work. In which country are people still denied a living by feeding their families?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Article 106 of the Satversme provides: “Everyone has the right to choose freely according to their abilities and qualifications.” This is a violation of the Satversme. And it's just a matter of time for it to be recognised. People who work at a distance, too, were denied the opportunity to work. Then we have to ask: what science-based facts can we talk about at all?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The Satversme was also violated by imposing restrictions on the operation of large shopping centres under the conditions of the Covid-19 pandemic. Economic operators suffered significant losses due to the non-professional activities of the government, but the government is likely to never compensate them. Many sectors work with more or less restrictions all this time (e.g. individual catering companies face a drop in turnover of up to 60 percent), but support should wait months. Gas and electricity costs are rising rapidly. And uncertainty about the future is only increasing, not decreasing. However, listening to what comes from this tribunal gives you the feeling that we are so successful... Good luck on the ground. I must say that the government lacks the courage and competence to resolve matters in a way that gives the public confidence. People are put into stress, ignorance, and depression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U76	The name of the Member, Mr. Miccherevski.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U77	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I look at what we are talking about today is the annual report by Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš to the Saeima on the work done by the Cabinet. And I think it was a very good report. The most important thing I heard there is that my friends will be fine! And really it will. But - we must all do so that we are good in Ukraine. But what we're doing right now... It's been four hours, and it's been spoken as if someone here had no access to the Internet... Here someone is in Omsk or Kemerowa every day... Why are these negotiations going on - what have we all done, what must we do? It seems to me to be completely unnecessary. We all know the problems and what we have or have not done. In Italy the oligarchs are taken away by yachts. Lithuania and Estonia have just accepted the call to close the sky in Ukraine. What are we doing here? We're just talking. And that's why... I know my mother probably won't like it, but... is almost the formula... old, Indonesian, which has two words only - that's good enough! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U78	Now I have to say, however, that here is the Saeima sitting, Mr. Michelevsky. And I invite you to choose a lexic. ( Internouncing call.) I think your mother really won't like it. (Laughter) Thank you very much. Go on. The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U79	Dear colleagues, Mr. Karin! You said a lot of very correct words, but why does it happen that we remember unity only in times of crisis? I remember that in January 1991 the then leader, Anatoly Gorbunov, also gathered representatives of public organisations and talked about the very right things - unity, mutual listening, participation, respect for all interests. The crisis passed and everything was forgotten. This crisis is going on for years. We will need unity in the future. If you're really interested not only in preaching slogans about unity... but how to achieve something in practice, then don't listen to the dilettants. We also heard here today all kinds of speeches from people who simply do not understand the difference between assimilation and integration. I will say nothing to Mr Kirštein, it is hopeless, but Mr Budrik, you are very active at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. God with honor. Please read the basic documents of the Council of Europe once, so that we do not really speak things that one national language means that all education must be in the national language. Read, and then we will be happy to talk about it. A very specific question. Colleagues, I have told you on several occasions from this troupe that strong media, media that can address Russian speakers, are not only about justice, human rights, but, first of all, about security. I warned you that the policy of destroying the content produced in Latvia in Russian is dangerous for Latvia's security and is only in the interests of Russian propaganda, but you continued the policy and now we see the result. No, I don't have any illusions. In Latvia, however, Putin's adherents would be, but if we were smarter, they would be much less. We produce and multiply these people ourselves... with your own hands. Indeed, what is left in our information space? What can be seen by those who prefer to use information in Russian? And LTV7. Colleagues, I would remind you that some programmes that remained in the Russian language at LTV7 were to be eliminated with effect from 1 September last year. It was only thanks to our initiative that those programmes were preserved. We associate with the new multimedia study LSM in Russian, but, forgive me, it is organized only because the British gave money and actually forced us to do so. Our British colleagues understand the importance of communication with minorities in their mother tongue, and we finally agree to take this money. But without the study, there is also a need for content. Mr Kariņš, you must admit that your communication has completely failed - neither you nor your ministers, nor the people who have an influence on your government... they have no idea how they can communicate with them. We know that, and we will be happy to help you. We do not need you to praise us for your position. It is not for you to praise us, we really think so, and we know how to address these people, both in terms of content and in terms of form. But while you are wearing red lines, while you are ready to work with homophobs, xenophobs, populists, with anything other than Russians, the security of Latvia will be threatened. We'll help you. The question is whether you are prepared to accept this assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U80	The name to Member Igor Pimenov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U81	Thank you for your word. As Mr Budriķis's pathetic accusation of non-compliance with a solemn declaration by a Member was specifically directed at me, I will also reply. The state status of the Latvian language is not an obstacle to the implementation of general education minority programmes in minority languages. There is no such prohibition anywhere in the law, nor is there such a position in the Constitution. In 1995, Latvia signed the Council of Europe Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities and in 2005 ratified it. Declarations and reservations made in the Act of Ratification do not concern the provision of the second paragraph of Article 14 of the Convention, Mr Budriķis, the provision that the State (I quote): “... commits, if there is sufficient demand, to ensure, as far as possible, that persons belonging to national minorities have adequate opportunities to learn the language of the minority or to acquire education in that language in the territory of which persons of national minorities are historically resident or in large numbers.” Latvia ratified the Convention. This means that the Convention is not contrary to the Constitution of Latvia. Children's training in minority languages in Latvia is not contrary to the Constitution. I say to those in a coalition that wants to "pure" the elimination of Russian language schools in order to reduce the risk of society's fragmentation, that the Council of Europe Convention was designed precisely to mitigate these risks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U82	Thank you. Name of Minister of Education and Science Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U83	Hello, very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Hello, honourable Members! High honourable Members! Much has been said about the work of the Ministry of Education and Science, both during the discussion of this year's budget, and the Prime Minister has outlined those main directions, and I myself seem to be taking part sufficiently regularly wherever possible... in Parliamentary commissions, informing Members of what we are doing, what we intend to do and why. Today, I would like to reflect on what is intended with regard to the national language in education. We have been mistaken for a very long time through language and, I must say, through such naive hopes typical of Latvians about the integration of Gentiles, the success of integration through sport and culture, often telling ourselves that these are areas that should not be confused with politics. Prayed not because we Latvians would be less wise than other countries, but I think only because we are too honest and perhaps not always brave enough to act so far. The events in Ukraine have finally opened up the eyes not only for us, but also for the old Europe, also for the world, which has often been smiling by nations with aggressors, that there is no friendly coexistence and will probably not be possible in the near future. It is absolutely impossible to agree with Mr Pimenova's statement that the transition to training in the only state language, namely the Latvian language, is being applied for intentionally now that Russia has been demoralised. No, highly honourable Members, it is one of the many homework that has not been done so far, and it is high time that we did not want to hear the similar phrases that some officials of a neighbouring country have expressed with regard to Ukraine, that Ukraine has never really had its own language, that it has not really been a separate country. This merely shows that, in this way, we simply cannot afford to continue dividing society, including children, by language, because soon we can end up in a situation like that which I believe no one wants. But how to do this, how to unify through education, is a valid question. There are two approaches. You can continue the way through hatred, through contempt, through the often implemented approach - the suitcase, the station, the homeland... From tomorrow... in this way, but it was possible to do so in the 1990s, but the state must never forget its responsibility for the consequences of previous decisions or omissions, and by making corrections to its own indecision 30 years ago, we must not even set ourselves here, in Latvia, against each other. We have chosen a different approach. Gradually, yes, giving a year's time to train teachers sufficiently, to supplement their professional and language competences and to adjust the content of their training. At the moment, there are very good preconditions for moving to the state language, as for two years the pupils have had all the classes in the state language before school. These are gradual steps starting from 1, 7, possibly also for Class 4 students, which in turn will allow to speed up this planned period of six years for three years. At the same time, I can assure you that we will still retain the opportunity to learn, maintain the family language in those educational institutions that have a sufficient number of children with another family language in the form of modules, but education for all children in Latvia will be absolutely the same – in the state language. Only in this way, I think we can get a society that, while living in Latvia, speaks one language of the country, loves and respects the country in which it lives. And this is the time to end the sharing of children in Latvia after the language they speak in their family and after the school they learn. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U84	The name of Member Eric Pucen.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U85	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Mr. Prime Minister! Colleagues! Today, representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers have come to the Saeima to visit us and report on what has been accomplished both in the course of the year and in the course of the four years. And every one praises himself as he learns. Perhaps someone shouldn't have praised himself and said what had been done. I would like to touch a little on agricultural policy. The programming period has come to an end. We have heard how much extra money we will get, but at the European Union level we will still be at the bottom. We will have both Estonia and Lithuania in a far way, and Latvian tomatoes will still be more expensive than Dutch tomatoes, because the support for the Netherlands is much higher. The Minister also touched slightly on organic farming, where he spoke, how much has been done and what support will be received. Yes, the support programmes are organised, but these conditions are so complex that biological owners often cannot do so at all. I would just like to mention a few examples. Organic beekeeping. The reduction per family is 25 per cent, contrary to what we want to set up by the European Union. Biological... The cattle breeding association also begins to understand that organic cattle are not a priority in Latvia. I have gone to the Ministry several times and said that this sector will cease to exist in Latvia, because we must adhere strictly to the European Union's green course. Increasingly, I receive calls for the closure of small farms, where people have been involved in dairy farming, because the cost of farming has dramatically increased. When trying to find solutions, people have moved to grain production, but, realizing that this year mineral fertiliser prices have been rising several times, as well as this industry... who have shifted to grains... will be destroyed. At the end of the day, we come to the point that the winners and winners will be large farms, but of course, these farms also have very great problems, because their business plans have not had such an increase in costs. Good things have also been done, even recently. This is the aid where advance payments can be applied for, the advance may also be used to withdraw the excise fuel. It's pretty... will make it easier for farmers to sow, but this does not solve the big problem. I call on us, Members, to get much more involved. The first line is sitting in John Cielen, who is the head of the parliamentary group in support of small and medium-sized farmers. He has been able to hold two meetings of the commission over several years. John, maybe you shouldn't have led this group at all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U86	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have agreed that we are sitting in masks in this Chamber. I call on all Members of the Saeima to follow this. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U87	Dear President, Honourable Members! Everyone likes to talk about the General Convention on the Protection of National Minorities, but for no reason does anyone tolerate another law - on this Convention - adopted by the Saeima on 1 February 1995. In particular, I will read to Mr. Cilevičs who said: “Persons who are not citizens of Latvia but who are resident in the Republic of Latvia on a permanent and legal basis do not belong to a national minority within the meaning of the Convention in accordance with the definition of a national minority in the relevant declaration of the Republic of Latvia [...].” So, first of all, they are not representatives of any minority. It also states (Article 3 of the Law): ‘The Republic of Latvia declares that it considers the second paragraph of Article 10 of the Convention to be binding, insofar as it is not contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia...’. Articles 4 and 4 state: ‘The third paragraph of Article 11 of the Convention shall be deemed binding, in so far as it is not contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia...’. Article 3 therefore concerns the use of another language in relation to the authorities and 11. - speaks of local language names, topographical terms, statements and so on. So first of all, we need to refer to this -- the non-citizens are not and... does not belong to a national minority. This has been adopted by the Saeima law. Secondly, if we refer to the convention, then it is not a matter of forgetting the article that says that, in such cases, the state does not have to finance education. The State may do so on a voluntary basis, but it shall not be obliged to do so. Thus, I think that the Latvian Ministry of Education and Science in kindergartens, where a lot of non-citizens' children are studying, needs to introduce education in Latvian and only. But there was a dispute in Latvia that Ukrainian children, here at the entrance of Russian schools, not Ukrainian, so that it should be stopped. And the last one. Prime Minister, perhaps you can tell our dear Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development to order all municipalities to carry out the Ukrainian flag mandatoryly, because it has not been laid down in very many. Especially in Latgale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U88	Thank you, thank you. The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U89	Hello, honourable Prime Minister. Thank you very much for your speech today. In particular, I would like to emphasise from your speech that democracy is a force. It is democracy that will be the opposite of autocracy, any attempt by dictatorship. We need a united nation in Latvia, not an ethnic one, which will be based on European and democratic values. So a united, European and democratic nation. As regards our responsibilities, Parliamentary responsibilities, which are also responsible for the composition of the government, the work of the government and the quality of the government's work. Now there is war, and that means that crisis management will be the only way to manage it, but the question is: have we analysed all the mistakes that we have had over the last two years when we tried to manage the crisis during a pandemic? I called on several times from this troupe - when we were fighting a pandemic, with a community - to form a broader coalition, to involve the opposition in the fight against the community. In my opinion, at the moment, there is a time when this should finally be feasible, we must cooperate not in words, but in real terms. Once again, the opposition has a very wide range of voters. In the hands of the opposition, there is very much information about what our constituents think and what they do today. ( Internouncing call.) You can't get this information anywhere else. ( Internouncing call.) As soon as this was the case, there was a representative of the New Conservative Party, which is leading the education and science sector in our country. I hoped that this high position would give Ms. Muižniece more opportunities to develop both herself and her professional skills. Unfortunately, today... in these historical days... she went to the troupe to oppose opposition representatives on only one issue. I think it is precisely today, when families from Ukraine come to us with children who need both schools and teachers, that it is from the Minister of Education and Science that we should speak out and worry about where we will get teachers. You did not inform us how many teachers are currently lacking in schools in Latvia, or the number of teachers missing... Since the last data, when there were a lack of 1,300 teachers, the most demanded were teachers in such subjects as computer science, design, technology, mathematics and Latvian language - Latvian language teaching methodology, video materials, where every child would have the opportunity to learn and learn the school program without visiting school. Where is information about what is going on? Is there any strategic long-term solution to this problem? Not least, long-term, for years, do not address the challenges of education, for example, for children with autised spectrum disorders. According to the latest data, at least 130 specialists of ABA therapy and Denver method are currently required in Latvia to provide early intervention services for children with autised spectrum disorders. No, all this remains behind the frame. Another...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U90	Thank you, thank you. Time for the debate is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U91	Can I unite?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U92	Yes, there is an opportunity to bring together the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U93	Yeah, I'll unite. After me, the Minister for Agriculture will take the floor. Mr. Kariņš, I would like to draw your attention. Other refugees come to us with refugees from Ukraine: they are the animals of these Ukrainian citizens and of the Ukrainian population. At the moment, there are dozens of animals in shelters in Latvia, whose owners are also here, because evacuation trains and buses do not bring animals, but the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Veterinary Service has accepted... changed the rules governing quarantine for these animals for 71 days, but the law does not allow us to finance these animal shelters, because it is stipulated by law that it is financed by municipalities in whose territories the animals have been caught. These animals have not been caught, and this is a problem that I think had to be addressed by the same Ministry of Agriculture, whose minister is from the National Alliance. They say, “Yes, the threat of rabies.” Animals holding an international passport? But if there is one, please decide where the shelters could take money for all of this for 71 days. It is perhaps such a lower ranking issue, but it is a very real issue that needs to be addressed. And the last thing I want to say. It is a very good phrase “friends, will be good”, but I think it will be good when we really will be friends, not only here all those sitting here, but also anyone across the country, our Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U94	Thank you. The name of the Minister for Agriculture, Kaspars Gerhard, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U95	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. Dear Members, Colleagues! As I said at the first speech, we have done a huge amount of advisory work with non-governmental organisations, with public authorities, in forming a common strategic plan for our country's agricultural policy. I am very pleased that in these many working groups, both regional and thematic, members of the Saeima have also participated - Mr Pucene has been there, Mr Cielen. The Heads of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy have always paid great attention to the processes in agriculture, to what proposals are being made - both Mr Feldman and Mr Nemir. And indeed, I am pleased that the Members of the Saeima have been so active and have taken part. I would like to highlight a few things that I may not have said in detail during the first speech. As I have already mentioned, rural money has come to play: direct payments have been increased by 44 per cent, total funding has been increased by 27,6 per cent. That's the third biggest - the third biggest! - an increase between the Member States of the European Union. Greater than our neighbours for Lithuania and Estonia. This is something that we have ensured in very serious, difficult work, which has been worked together by both the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the Prime Minister has also been actively involved in these issues, and we have managed to achieve this. So one thing is absolutely safe: direct payments in Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia are absolutely the same, but we have even greater increases in funding. We can see very well that Latvian farmers are competitive in the Baltics. This is demonstrated by the fact that more than a third of milk produced in Latvia is exported to neighbouring countries - Lithuania, Estonia - and we are able to compete successfully. We have introduced completely new things that were not in the past in order to provide aid directly to small and medium-sized farmers in order to ensure that aid is fair. A decision has been made on the ceiling for payments, the redistributive payment, the aid for small farmers, the financing of investments by small and medium-sized enterprises. These are the work we have done to ensure that this support is fairer. About the bees mentioned. There are about two million more than before, and the information is completely verifiable. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Pucen’s exclamation.) No, well, as I said at the outset, 48 per cent of the issues directly related to the climate and the environment, and organic farming is an absolute priority. Looking back to what Member Lochmele said. I think we're all very well aware... and probably many of you have also followed what happened in Latvia – the impact of rabies and possible problems. The Food and Veterinary Service has drawn attention to these problems from the first day since, unfortunately, rabies is widespread in Ukraine. We must ensure everything that the health of Latvian citizens is not threatened. Therefore, the information is fully available in the Food and Veterinary Service, these rules are clear, there is clear action, provided for in quarantine. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele’s intermediate call.) When discussing shelters, it is clear that there is also an understanding of it. There are individual cases, and both the Food and Veterinary Service and the Ministry of Agriculture will of course pay attention to them - which prevents them from complying with the laws and regulations in force in Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U96	Thank you. The name to Member Boris Cilevič for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U97	Dear colleagues, Dear Mr. Kirstein! I am very pleased that you have read this law, but I am sorry that you have not read it to the end, because you have not quoted the following article, which says that the same rights as those provided for in the Convention apply to non-citizens unless the law provides otherwise. For non-citizens. What does this have to do with the issues to be discussed? Do you know how many non-citizens are among children of kindergarten age? Does that amount to at least one percent? As far as I know, then no less than one percent. How many non-citizens are among school - age children? Will there be at least a couple percent? What does it have to do? You're, unfortunately, mixing everything in one pile. With this opportunity, I would like to emphasise that today I have heard a lot about single content in one language. There is one country that has successfully achieved this: today's Russia. They do have the same content, absolutely the same in all the media and in only one language. Is that the model we are calling for? Democracy is diversity, diversity. Not only with regard to opinions, but also with regard to language. Latvia is a country where very many languages have spoken historically - I know it very well as a multi-citizen. Do we really want the uniformity, the uniformity of content, the uniformity of ideas, the uniformity of languages? How does this coincide with the fundamental idea of the European Union - united in diversity? Of course, there must be a very strong fight against violations in this respect, because freedom of expression has its limitations. I now see very much in social networks the call for war, the praising of war, and I do not see anyone fight against it. The borders must be, but freedom must also be, and diversity must be, because otherwise there will be no unity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U98	Thank you, thank you. The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U99	Mr. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I want to thank you, Krišjānis Karin, that you didn't talk about what was done last year, because then I should go to the platform, something needs to be criticised. It's simple, but completely useless. You spoke (I will allow you to speak to you)... You've been talking about what's important at the moment since 24 February. I could also argue with you about a few things about how to deal with the energy crisis, but not now and not here. We are in one vector, so I call on all of us today's critical debate... they have been agreed for many hours... put the salt aside and really think about what we are doing next and how we can help Ukraine without what we are already helping. We are a political house, we are making political decisions. I am not talking about the involvement of every person in society; it is huge today; there is no dispute about it. I am not talking about government involvement, I am also sending weapons and otherwise, everything is right, but at least two speakers today... Perhaps more, I am sorry, I did not count all, but I have heard two speakers call for similar actions to those of Estonia and Lithuania, namely the adoption of the Saeima statement - the call by the UN to impose a ban on aircraft over Ukraine. I understand that, in a sense, it is a symbolic appeal to the UN, it can actually be realised by NATO, but if we could ask us here in the hall today... President Zelenskis of Ukraine, whom he would expect from this house as a political decision, I think that is what he would expect. I'll say even more, from my own personal point of view... personal opinion - I will call... I do not want to call it as 'I' or as 'the opposition', and I very much hope that, after this sitting, we, the political groups and the independent, can simply agree. The text is ready, it is already ready in Estonia, actually the same in Lithuania. We don't have to take it there... editorial differences. I simply call on us to agree and accept. ( Internouncing call.) But what I want to say - I am going to call for more of my own - is the UN, but I will think about NATO, because these are those who can do it. As a NATO member, we are inside what can be done. NATO is, of course, an alliance of defence; we all know that. We know all the theoretical, practical arguments and so on. But let us remember that NATO was built not just as a defence alliance, but as an alliance that will ensure security and peace in Europe... on the continent, not just the European... on the continent, but in the world, but primarily in Europe... on the continent after the Second World War. If we look at genocide in the middle of Europe today, it becomes difficult for us, with moral and even rational arguments, not to give a god, to demand a different attitude in a similar situation. I understand that I am a former diplomat that it is not easy, but sometimes it is much more difficult to make important decisions. Those arguments that are used today, why there is no direct involvement in Ukraine, one day can also be used in our case, and our duty... I'm not saying, France, Germany... I won't. We are those who should understand it best. We've ever told the West that they don't understand us. Perhaps we were lucky that they did not understand us if they had understood us, to be more accurate, understood Putin's intentions, maybe we would not be NATO today. Our responsibility - at least politically - to stand up for Ukraine today is greater than for anyone else. For the Baltic, for Poland, for Finland, for all those who knew what we had eyelashes, for all those who had experienced them. We will probably not do this today, but I am calling for an extraordinary sitting of the Saeima to be convened and to accept a completely identical statement, as has been done by Lithuania and Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U100	Thank you for your support, Mr. Schmidt. I would also like to inform colleagues that the Foreign Affairs Commission is currently preparing such a statement. I understand that the draft is already at a certain stage of preparation and the Foreign Affairs Commission is planning to adopt this statement and to direct it to the Saeima sitting today at 3 p.m. (Applause) Ladies and gentlemen, we must also adopt this statement today, and we will do so. And a very small note. Colleagues, I understand that we live in an emotional time, but in official communication, in communication at the sittings of the Saeima, I call for the use of the generally accepted form of "you", especially with regard to the Prime Minister and also with regard to each other. Let's keep going. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U101	Good afternoon, very honourable Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, Thank you for this information, Mrs Mūrniece, which you have just said, because it demonstrates that the Baltics remain united in this regard as well. I am asking for the floor in this debate today, above all... or one of the reasons was this aspect of Baltic unity. It's very, very difficult to talk after Didžas Schmidt. He said he was a former diplomat. I would like to say that he is still a diplomat, a high-level diplomat, because the things he spoke about really demonstrated, in my view, a very national and very responsible approach to all the complicated processes that we are going through. About some of these processes. I can also assure you that it is really very, very difficult to talk about Ukraine... It remains very difficult and burdensome to talk to the people of countries whose national borders are not the direct border with Russia. Their understanding of what is happening in the world is only slowly developing and only gradually opening their eyes. We Belarusians are those who are obliged to open these eyes at the moment, with all possible means to open up - with various statements, with various perhaps premature actions (in the view of early - conservative politicians) and so on, but that is our duty, our duty towards Europe and against the world at the moment. I'm sorry I'm using such loud words. But if we talk about us ourselves, then the things that Mr Kariņš spoke about today - both the air protection system, common to all the Baltic States... I would like to say - and Mr Leiņi will confirm - that in the Baltic Assembly... at least during this parliamentary term, we have been constantly talking about the need if we cannot raise it ourselves financially, then - together with our allies from NATO; that we had to go with such an initiative, and we should have done it regardless of what has happened in the world at the moment. If we are talking about the issues that Mr Reinis Znotiņš spoke about today, about energy independence... These issues have always been on the agenda of the Baltic Assembly - with the tasks of the Baltic Council of Ministers and the governments of the Baltic States - that we need to think more intensively about how to use these renewable energies, both in building joint wind farms and thinking about the joint hydrogen programme, just as we do in the Benelux countries, and perhaps thinking about how to turn this recovery and resilience tool into the direction that we need most right now. These are the things that I would like to emphasise as the Head of the Latvian delegation to the Baltic Assembly, and I would call on the Prime Minister and the Government to work on these issues, regardless of what is happening today, regardless of the reality of Ukraine. I also ask for the floor because there is now a minister for education and science. She spoke about language issues, but, in my view, there are at least a few more issues that are very important to us internally and that relate to the education sector. And these are two types of discrimination that we must deal with as quickly as possible. And one of these discriminations is about teachers' salaries, and the Minister knows very well what I am talking about - about preschool teachers' salaries. But if we were in the Education, Culture and Science Commission yesterday, looking... first-reading... Check count of the guidelines for development of education (up to 2023), we see that it is still planned that the salary of pre-school educator in relation to people of the same qualification in the public sector would represent only 72 percent... At the same time, it is 109 per cent in primary education and the difference is one third. I'm sorry, that's not acceptable. And we know about this increase in wages from 1 September, about the EUR 970 planned for them, but that will not solve the problem either. I ask you to pay particular attention to this problem. I asked you to unite my time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U102	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U103	And the other discrimination I would like to talk about. This discrimination also appeared at the meeting of the Education, Culture and Science Commission led by Mr Asheraden yesterday, when we looked at the question of the extent to which education in STEM subjects is available at secondary schools in Latvia, and of which regions can provide such education in full spectrum, so in all these subjects, and where only those weak yellow circles, which are on the map of the Ministry (this means that a maximum of two or three subjects can be taught in the relevant secondary schools). And then it turned out that... With national cities and relatively larger cities, it's almost all right, there's everything in these green circles, there's enough of these technical and natural science subjects. But at the same time, if we look at Latvia's peripherals along the border, along all the borders, by the way, then everything is very yellow, except for certain places. And that means that discrimination is relative to where the child is born. If he has been born at the border of Latvia, it is clear that he is an education, an education in which he will be able to continue his training in science subjects or engineering sciences (Sitting Manager knocks down with hammer.) If only the parents don't finance it, unless the parents invest some extra funds in this child... He has been discriminated against from birth, practically from the first steps in school course. I'm... Mr Asheraden has also discussed this issue in the interim, where a national strategic approach is needed. The FAO Group on One Small Sector, on Aluksne, has sent out a request, but it is just a fragment in this whole range of problems. And that's why... Prime Minister and Minister, it is a question of our future - how we are regenerating our staff, how we are regrowing our people. Please, let us work more intensively in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U104	Thank you. The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U105	Hello, everyone here! Hello, too, everyone who listens to us live! First of all, I would like to thank all the Members, as well as the representatives of the Ministry, who are now involved... on Ukraine and support in all possible ways. And, of course, there is still a great deal of thanks to the citizens who are selflessly trying to help the Ukrainian people, both by receiving them and by sending goods... or otherwise help. But I'd like to put this emphasis on now, maybe... about whether really “friends, now everything is fine”. There are areas where much has been done, but there are areas where there is, of course, a need to improve... Now, of course, we have this... the next problem with Ukraine, and hopefully it will happen successfully. But we should not forget the problems that have also been encountered in previous years. And certainly draw conclusions about whether it could have been better if it had to be done again... And now, however, I would like to stress what the opposition has been doing for a long time, all these years... For entrepreneurs who have suffered during this pandemic. At the moment, we see that tourism and the housing sector will be the areas that will also suffer this year. Russian tourism will, of course, not be, we understand all this. The catering industry is gone, as well as all sports clubs, beauty care. I often try to ask these questions about support mechanisms or how to reduce these epidemiological requirements - just when representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Health are present - then often the answers to the opposition are not what we would expect. And we members of the opposition do not get the information that might be available to members of the coalition. And here, it's a little bit out of cooperation. If we would all like to go and work together, then we should also share that information together. But the sadest, of course, right now... We're also going out even in the Old Town... We can see how these companies have disappeared. And we should now provide this information, how they should be helped and what the mechanisms should be. Of course, we have provided for value added tax... support. And the coalition parties have also gone with this information. Perhaps it was just a pillar, but I think that support mechanisms still need to be thought of and... for the same beauty industry. What would be the mechanisms to motivate them to leave the shadow economy and they would like to make checks? How can we each help to really want to pay taxes and support the country? Because its problems... we have very much needed funding. For example, we can refer to a meeting today where we talked about rare diseases. Additional funding was granted for the treatment of cystic fibrosis directly, but this funding is sufficient for only 20 patients, although the total number of patients is 50. And then we can ask: what mechanisms will we achieve for our country's economy to develop and for us to have more tax revenues? And how, for example, can these remaining 30 patients be helped? At present, unfortunately, medical staff need to sort out who and who does not. Therefore, I really call on all colleagues to cooperate, work together and develop our country, Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U106	Thank you. I closed the debate. Prime Minister, would you have anything to add or explain?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U107	Thank you. Colleagues! I'm just short. Thank you for the debate. Thank you both to Members of the position and to Members of the opposition. We are at a difficult stage, but we will get through it. We will continue to support Ukraine together, we will restructure our economy so that we are no longer dependent on Russia. And we will continue to strengthen ourselves militaryly - of course with our NATO allies, being united. That is our strength. Let us have the strength to maintain this unity and to continue to support Ukraine, and to stand for the values that they also literally stand and fall on - freedom, democracy and the rule of law! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U108	Thank you to the Prime Minister. We wish the Prime Minister and the government a successful job in strengthening Latvia in all areas. Thanks in particular to the Prime Minister, the Minister for Education and Science and the Minister for Agriculture, who remained until the end of the debate, were involved and commented and explained to Members the work of the Government. So we have examined the Prime Minister's report. Ladies and gentlemen, proposals have been received for changes to the agenda of the Saeima sitting. Members Krišjānis Feldmans, Sandis Riekstins, Jānis Cielēns, Ainars Baškis and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft decision “On the appointment of the Saeima Member Ieva Akurastere to the Foreign Affairs Commission”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Krišjānis Feldmans, Sandis Riekstins, Jānis Cielēns, Ainars Baķis, Jānis Butāns and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft decision “On the appointment of the Saeima Member Ieva Akuraster in the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. And the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption is asking to include in the agenda the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Support Law”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. Just a minute! ( Pause) So we shall continue to discuss the agenda of the Saeima sitting. Examination of draft decisions Project “On extension of the term of participation of soldiers of the Latvian National Armed Forces in the international coalition military operation Inherent Resolve against the terrorist organisation ISIL/ Da’esh”. We have not signed up to any of the rapporteurs for this draft decision. Nor have Members applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the extension of the term of office of the soldiers of the Latvian National Armed Forces in the international coalition military operation Inherent Resolve against the terrorist organisation ISIL/ Da’esh! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Draft Decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals in the Law on Public Service Procurement (No. 1029/Lp13) for second reading until 18 March 2022.’ Are Members willing to report? Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals in the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Public Service Providers (No. 1029/Lp13) for the second reading until 18 March 2022’. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Draft Decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals in the draft Law on Public Private Partnership (No. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals in the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Public Private Partnership (No. 1015/Lp13) for the second reading until 18 March 2022’. Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Next - consideration of the draft decision on the recognition of a person as a member of the national resistance movement. Draft decision on the recognition of Lilija Limane as a member of the national resistance movement. On behalf of the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity, Member Ritvars Jansons.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U109	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Honourable Members! Symbolically, today, on the day of commemoration of the National Resistance Movement, the draft decision is being examined - to be recognised as a member of the National Resistance Movement Lilija Limani. Lilija Limane applied for her contribution to the resistance movement to the Saeima on 23 November 2021. In accordance with its rules, this application was examined by the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity. Members had the opportunity to get acquainted with copies of the documents of the Latvian National Archives on the activities of Mrs. The former Latvian SSR KGB criminal case on Lilija Limane's activities was deposited specially from the Latvian National Archives to the Saeima archives, and the Members who wanted to get acquainted with it were able to get acquainted with it. Occupational regime Lilija Limani was sentenced on January 14, 1972, on the basis of Article 69 of the Criminal Code of the Latvian SSR Code “On Aggregation and Propagation in order to Victimize National Hate and Distrust”. It should be noted that the occupation regime used the definition of this article to address the opponents of the regime, and the envoy to national hatred and distrust was also ideologically interpreted. What did Mrs. Limane’s submission reveal and what she learned in the criminal case of the Latvian SSR? In 1971, Lilija Limane, while studying in the 11th grade of Maltese Secondary School, did not support the transversal and elimination of the Soviet occupation power, wrote runways that were distributed in Riga, Rezekne, Preili, Malta, Feimaņi, and sent out to several schools and universities in Latvia. The content of the proclamation was directed against the trans-Russianisation, the established order of the occupation regime, called for the strengthening of Latvian language and culture, stood for the freedom of the Latvian people. On 9 March this year, in order to ensure individual justice in a particular case, the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Public Solidarity voted in favour of the draft decision to recognise Lilija Limanis as a member of the national resistance movement. When nine Members voted in favour and two did not vote, the Commission supported the draft decision and decided to direct it to the Saeima. In fulfilling the objective of the law “On the Status of a Member of the National Resistance Movement” – “to assess the merits of those people who, while working on the National Resistance Movement, participated in armed struggle or fought by other means for the restoration of Latvia proclaimed on 18 November 1918 and donated themselves to defend the violence and genocide of the people against the occupation regime” – on behalf of the committee, I invite Members of the Saeima to support the draft decision – to recognise Lilija Limanis as a member of the National Resistance Movement.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U110	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the recognition of Lilija Limane as a member of the national resistance movement! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. On the agenda - reports from the Bureau on draft laws submitted by the Saeima The Bureau proposes that the Member Vjačeslava Dombrovska, Edgars Tatars, Ulda Augulis, Didžas Šmita, Viktors Valaiņš and other draft laws submitted "Amendments to the Law on Excise Tax" be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U111	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I will remind you: by nature, the draft law proposes to reduce excise duty by 15 cents per litre - provided that the world's oil prices are higher than $100 per barrel. This would result in a price reduction at service stations of 18 cents. There has already been much debate on this in the past week. I would remind you: then this proposal was rejected with arguments that... One coalition Member has stated that this proposal is pure populism. And later on, Minister of Finance Reir announced that he had to reject it because he had to show solidarity with the Ukrainian people by refusing to reduce this tax. It's pretty interesting that... It should be noted that the excise duty on fuel has already been reduced by Poland, apparently showing its disrespect or lack of solidarity with the Ukrainian people. A few days ago, the Lithuanian Government announced an evaluation of the reduction of excise duty by 13 cents per litre. And more. Most interesting, colleagues - yesterday Latvian Radio asked the Ministry of Economics about the plans for fuel prices, and the Ministry of Economics replied that they were assessing two options, two routes, and... Colleagues, there is no need to laugh, but one of those roads is to reduce excise duty on fuel. All right. For populism, colleagues. I will remind those present, as it were, of other goods, at energy prices that were... It's a pretty similar story. So, at the rise in energy prices... Even in September, I personally... Several opposition Members proposed a reduction in value added tax. In the coalition, this proposal did not support - with arguments that, here, it must not do anything (also called populism) because, from the coalition's point of view, targeted aid was needed. One of the widely mentioned arguments was that, here's not to do so, because it will benefit people who own private houses... pools. So what did the government and coalition do? It waited until January and then offered its own solution, which proved to be targeted support... is thrown... EUR 50 per child... and other payments... It appeared that it is two to three times more expensive for the public budget than that offer to apply a reduced VAT rate. And it happens so interesting that today private household owners have electricity bills lower than they were before the rise in energy prices. And so on. So that was apparently the targeted, highly targeted support. Colleagues, I congratulate you, it was very ambitious. We can all look at what has been spent in the past four years... How many? The money borrowed is seven eight billion euros. Well, what benefits there weren't just there! Sectors... construction... who have never suffered from the community at all, all kinds of benefits - EUR 500, EUR 200 and so on. Here we go! If there have been populism champions here, then it is quite clear what they have been. And the second question to you, colleagues from the coalition, is what will you then propose if this is rejected? So - to reduce excise duty - it is populism and disrespect for the Ukrainian people. I guess I can guess it'll take a few more months and you'll probably also be offering to pay 50-100 euros for every child's family with machines, without machines. I'm ready to agree that you'll figure out something that will show that people with more expensive machines, peacocks and jeeps will pay less for fuel than before. Well, that's the feeling... from previous experience. Let us wait for your solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U112	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Interface: “There are objections! ” ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of handing over the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission to the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 33, for - 37, for - 3. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Bureau of the Saeima proposes that the Member Viktoras Valaiņa, Raimonds Bergmanis, Janina Jalinska, Jānis Dūklavs, Armands Krauze and other draft law presented “Amendment to the Law on Conformity Assessment” be referred to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Uldis Augulis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U113	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, We prepared this bill so that, for at least one year, we would cancel the deadline when summer diesel needs to be added to make fuel more expensive from 1 April... another 10 to 12 cents per litre of diesel fuel. If we do not support the revision of excise or other taxes on diesel, then this would be what... This would not be a good thing for us if we abolished this mandatory charge for one year, thereby preventing the cost of summer diesel; it would give - even a little, but still - resistance to farmers, passenger carriers, road builders and others... in sectors that carry out transport, which really use quite a lot of diesel, so that we do not make things more expensive that we can not really make more expensive. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U114	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Interface: ‘ Yes, yes! ’) ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Conformity Assessment”, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 32, against - 33, refraining from - 8. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” presented by Mr. Kaspars Ģirgens, Ms. Erika Pucena, Mr. Ramona Petraviča, Ms. Māra Možvillo and Ms. Karina Sprūde be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Ēriks Pucens, a Member, has applied for this.”
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U115	Hello, dear colleagues! As we have seen a moment ago, the Saeima is unable to support any of the opposition proposals to reduce this rapid rise in food prices. We don't see... When we can still reduce both fuel growth... we can't reduce neither the increase in electricity... Then it is quite clear that people will be able to buy less for their money. People's wages will not go so fast that these shopping bags can be filled. Many European countries have already done so - and not just for the duration of the pandemic. Germany has done so, France has done it, Greece, Malta and Romania have done so. You can't understand if those economists are different than in Latvia, because for us here in the Saeima, those self-proclaimed economists... I don't know if I'm wrong there or here. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “There!” ) There... Is that so? Their economists are wrong? Well, yeah... Thank you, Mr Feldman from the New Conservative Party. But we can see what we... What we have done in the Saeima to make society... Maybe he can see. We have been able to increase Members' salaries, we have been able to increase Ministers' salaries, we have also been able to raise the President's salary. And we were also able to give the Jewish community 40 million. ( Internouncing call.) That's what we can do. Thank you, Saeima. I call for this draft law to be supported and passed on to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, because signatures have been collected on several occasions (interface). that the people want... Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U116	Thank you. Are Members opposed to the transmission of the draft law? ( Milestones.) Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax" to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 30, against - 41, abstaining. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Funded Pensions” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law on Expropriation of Public Person’s Property” be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes to hand over to the Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Prevention Commission the draft law submitted by the Saeima Presidium “On the recognition of the Law “On Transitional Additional Requirements for the Work of Members of the Saeima and Members of Municipal Councils” as null and void, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to Sport Law” presented by Mr. Sanda Riekstina, Mr. Krišjānis Feldmans, Mr. Ulda Budriķis, Mr. Janis Cielēns and Mr. Butāns, be referred to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ On” applied to speak Member Sandis Riekstins.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U117	Hello, colleagues! I will briefly say what this bill is about and call for support for it. The aim of this draft law is to prohibit Latvian teams, athletes, sportsmen from participating in sports competitions held in the Russian Federation or the Republic of Belarus, as well as to prohibit the organisation of Russian and Belarusian championships and managed international league sports competitions in Latvia. The draft law also requires that the person who is a member of the state security services, intelligence or counter-intelligence services of a foreign state, as well as the person who has been a member of the state security service, intelligence or counter-intelligence service of the USSR, the state security service of the Latvian SSR. Now, colleagues, the Ukrainians are here... with your blood... has given us an excellent opportunity to arrange our own country, to do something that has not had enough courage now for thirty years. I also, as the Head of the Sports Sub-Commission of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, call now on all sports organisations... and I do it again, I have already called them to do it, but nothing happens yet. I call, however, for an assessment to be made of each of our sports organisations, to look at what are on their boards, which are headed by them, who are their Secretary-Generals - there are the Czech agents and the celebrations of 9 May. More than that. We will, of course, also give an opportunity in the form of a law, as you have asked, but this is the case where we should not wait from above to act ourselves. Otherwise, I will make all my efforts to make sure that you do not receive taxpayers' money. I call for support, colleagues. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U118	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Dear colleagues, It's time for a break. Please call me! Please register the Members! The name to the Member Att Lejny, for the announcement.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U119	Members! I call on the members of the Foreign Affairs Commission to rush to the Foreign Affairs Commission's premises - for a similar... UN Resolutions... adoption of the notification later...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U120	Thank you. Interruption... I'm sorry, another name for Inese Voika, the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U121	Colleagues! Not registered: Iveta Benhena–Beeken, Raimonds Bergmanis, Aldis Blumbergs, Mārtiņš Bondars, Andrejs Judin, Nikolai Kabanovs, Artuss Kaimins, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Ivans Klementjevs, Rihards Kols, Armands Krauze, Janina Kursīte, Linda Medne, Juris Pūce, Inguna Ribena, Dace Rukšāne–Ščipčinska, Karina Sprūde, Lubova Švecova, Edgars Tavars, Edmunds Teirumnieks, Vita Anda Steel and Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U122	Thank you. Interruption until 3.30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U123	Dear colleagues, Please take your seats. We're gonna keep sitting after the break. Please, let's continue the sitting after the break. The next item is entitled "On own-initiative proposals submitted". Members Ramona Petraviča, Karina Sprūde, Maris Možvillo, Ieva Krapāne, Jūlija Stepanenko, Lubova Švecova, Kaspars Ģirgens, Ralfs Nemiro, Aldis Gobzems and Eriks Pucens have submitted a draft decision on the voluntary use of facial masks for schoolchildren. Do Members have proposals? ( Interface: ‘ Support! ’) ) Support. ( Insights: “There is no objection! ” ; “Votesim!” ; “There are objections!” ; “There is no objection!” ; “Support!” ) Please call us! We are voting in favour of including the draft decision on the voluntary use of facial masks by Members on the agenda of the next sitting! Please call me! Please vote... I'm sorry. The name of Member Ramona Petraviča - for motivation. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U124	Dear President, Dear colleagues, The draft decision provides for an immediate definition of the use of masks by pupils in basic and secondary education as a voluntary option. At the previous sitting of the Saeima, I mentioned three reasons for the voluntary use of masks in schools in the context of this bill, the proposal. First. The use of masks for schoolchildren does not provide any additional epidemiological safety, as pupils use masks for too long, wrong or even change them. Secondly. According to several educators and the President of the Latvian Medical Society, it makes learning difficult because it reduces the ability to concentrate, causes fatigue and even health problems when children's organisms suffer from lack of oxygen, as well as textile masks sometimes separate themselves from the linings after a couple of washing, which does not protect, but poses a serious threat to children's health. Thirdly. Controlling the correct use of masks in schools is almost impossible, as the sole responsibility for controlling the correct use lies practically on the shoulders of tired teachers. In order to ensure that the masks are not lent or used for too long, they should be nearly labelled with the student’s name and time of issue. At a time when none of the government's... for scientific reasons for the future of such policies... use is not true; it is discriminatory and targeted to punish children and young people. It is not clear to me why a group of people who, in most cases, Covid-19 have already been crushed or vaccinated and are most vulnerable to Covid-19 should be subject to such restrictions. Let me also remind you that all the above applies to the use of medical masks, but schools are still permitted to use tissue masks. According to research by Lithuanian, UK, and Ukrainian scientists, the average particle permeability for facial masks is 80 percent higher than for medical masks. If pupils really need masks as topical as the government points out, they should also use medical masks in schools (according to the same logic), but without any scientific or logical justification, the Minister for Health states that tissue masks bought in schools are considered equivalent to medical masks. This is a clear attempt to hide the mistakes of mask procurement and look productive, imposing additional restrictions even on children. It would be reasonable to replace pointless masking and suffocating by providing ventilation systems in schools rather than spending four million to buy air quality meters. For too long, the government has provided undervalued education to students and has literally stunned them. I call for support for the draft law and immediate identification of the voluntary use of masks by pupils in basic and secondary education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U125	Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft decision on the voluntary use of facial masks for pupils on the agenda of the next sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 30, for - 37, for - 1. The draft decision shall not be placed on the agenda of the Saeima for the next sitting. Do Members have proposals to hand over this draft decision to one of the commissions? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) No proposals. The draft decision is therefore rejected. Members Karina Sprūde, Aldis Gobzems, Maris Možvillo, Jūlija Stepanenko, Eriks Pucens, Lubova Švecova, Ieva Krapāne, Ramona Petraviča, Ralfs Nemiro and Kaspars Ģirgens have submitted a draft decision “On the outstanding remuneration of the Saeima Member Aldim Gobzems”. Do Members have objections? Members therefore agree to this issue (Interpretative statement: 'There are objections!') )... And the objections. Are Members... on the examination of this draft decision on the agenda of the next sitting? ( Milestones.) The name of Member Ramona Petraviča - for motivation. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U126	Colleagues! Given that Members of the Saeima, who are excluded from sittings of the Saeima, are fined at 20 per cent of the monthly salary for each sitting, and this has already entered into practice that Members are excluded from sittings from time to time, for example, for the second time Aldis Gobzems has already been excluded from six sittings of the Saeima... The Saeima's budget therefore generates savings... It would only be fair if unused funds were not spent on coffee or candy. That is why, with this draft decision, we are encouraging the savings in the budget of the Saeima for the unused remuneration of the Saeima Member Aldim Gobzems to be channelled into the framework budget programme 'Unforeseen assets'. There are certainly many other urgent needs at the moment, where this saved money could be used in a more reasonable way. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U127	Please call me! We will vote for the examination of the draft decision on the agenda of the next sitting on the salaries of the Saeima Member Aldim Gobzem. Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 20, it's against - 40, it's not. Consequently, the draft decision will not be on the agenda of the next sitting. Do Members have proposals to hand over this draft decision to one of the commissions? Please turn on the microphone for Ramon Petravič.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U128	Please hand it over to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U129	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission the draft decision "On the outstanding salaries of the Saeima Member Aldim Gobzem", according to which it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 20, it's against - 40, it's not. The draft decision is rejected. On the agenda - the draft decision submitted by Member Māra Kučinska, Ulda Augulis, Edgars Tatars, Jānis Vacāns, Gundars Dauges, Janīna Jalinska, Jānis Dūklavs, Raimonds Bergmanis, Armands Krauze and Didžis Šmits “On task for the Cabinet of Ministers to introduce temporary border controls at internal borders as a matter of urgency”. Do Members object to this at this sitting? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) There are objections. In that case, we will decide on the examination of this draft decision on the agenda of the next sitting of the Saeima. Please call me! We will vote for the examination of the draft decision “On task for the Cabinet of Ministers to introduce temporary border control at internal borders” on the agenda of the next meeting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 30, against - 33, abstaining - 5. The examination of the draft decision on the agenda of the next sitting has also been rejected. Do Members have proposals to hand over this draft decision to one of the commissions? Please turn on the microphone for the Member of the Plant. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U130	Dear colleagues, I have a proposal to hand it over to the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U131	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the transfer of the draft decision “On task for the Cabinet of Ministers to introduce temporary border control at internal borders” to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 65, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft decision has been referred to the Commission. Dear colleagues, On the agenda, under the heading ‘On the granting of leave’. The Saeima Bureau informs... ‘For unpaid leave granted to Dace Rukšāne-Ščipčinska on 17 March this year’. And the Saeima Bureau informs... ‘For unpaid leave granted to Member Juris Pucem on 17 March this year’. On the agenda, under the heading ‘Conclusion of the election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust’. Members Krišjānis Feldmans, Sandis Riekstins, Uldis Budriķis, Jānis Cielēns, Reinis Znotiņš, Evita Zālīte–Gross and others submitted a draft decision on the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Līva Kreituse from the Foreign Affairs Commission. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the withdrawal from the Foreign Affairs Commission of the member of the Saeima Līva Kreituses! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 64, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Members Krišjānis Feldmans, Sandis Riekstins, Uldis Budriķis, Jānis Cielēns, Reinis Znotiņš, Evita Zālīte–Grosa and others submitted a draft decision “On the appointment of the Saeima Member Līva Kreituse in the Legal Commission”. Please call me! Let us vote on the draft decision! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 66, against and refrains. Decision adopted. Members Krišjānis Feldmans, Sandis Riekstins, Jānis Cielēns, Ainars Baķis, Jānis Butāns and others submitted a draft decision “On the appointment of the Saeima Member Ieva Akuratere to the Foreign Affairs Commission”. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the appointment of the Saeima Member, Ieva Acuratere, to the Foreign Affairs Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 66, against and refrains. Decision adopted. Members Krišjānis Feldmans, Sandis Riekstins, Jānis Cielēns, Ainars Baķis, Jānis Butāns and others submitted a draft decision “On the appointment of the Saeima Member Ieva Akuratere in the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity”. Please call me! Let us vote on the draft decision! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 66, against and refrains. Decision adopted. The order of business - examination of parliamentary requests. Requests received by Members. Members Viktors Valainis, Uldis Augulis, Edgars Tavars, Didzis Šmits, Armands Krauze, Jānis Vucāns, Māris Kučinskis, Gundars Dauge, Janīna Jalinska and Jānis Dūklavs have submitted a request to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “How effective and timely Latvia complies with the sanctions imposed by the European Union against oligarchs and propaganda closer to V. Putin”. We shall forward the request from these Members to the Appeals Commission. On the agenda - Opinion of the Appeals Commission. Member Viktors Valaiņa, Edgars Tatars, Ulda Augulis, Janina Jalinska, Armanda Krauzes, Jānis Vucanas, Gundars Kūles, Māra Kučinska, Jānis Dūklavs, Didžas Šmits’ request to the Minister of Education and Science Anita Muižniece “Provide an assessment of the adequacy of the planned reorganisation of education institutions of the municipality of Aluksne to the interests of the local population”. On behalf of the Commission, Ivars Puga, Member. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U132	Hello, colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! The Panel examined the request made by Members of the Saeima Viktora Valaiņa, Edgars Taukara, Ulda Augulis, Janina Jalinska, Armanda Krauze, Jānis Vucanas, Gundars Dūke, Māra Kučinska, Jānis Dūklava, Didžas Šmits, Minister of Education and Science Anita Muižniece “Send an assessment of the compliance of the planned reorganisation of education institutions of the municipality of Aluksne with the interests of the local population” (No. 77/P13). Two votes in favour, eight votes against and two Members did not vote, it was recognised that Members' request should be rejected, because the Minister of Education and Science, both in writing and in an oral reply and explaining the situation, stressed that it was the competence of the municipality to decide on the elimination, establishment or reorganisation of certain educational institutions, reminding that the Ministry is prepared to negotiate with every municipality on the best possible solution for the organisation of the network of educational institutions. Moreover, on the specific case, at the meeting of the Alūksne Regional Council the question of reorganization of schools... is currently on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U133	Thank you. Let's start a debate. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U134	Good afternoon, colleagues! Thank you to the rapporteur. I have already spoken on this issue in a broader context today when we debated the Prime Minister's annual report, because indeed the application by the members of the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union was about the Alūksne district and, in fact, because in the Alūksne district, we see it as starting, I would like to say, an unthinkable network of schools, in their opinion, regularisation, but it is forced, because we in the Saeima have accepted certain norms, numerical rules that determine the numerical criteria that schools can exist. The reality is that these criteria are not always feasible in the peripherals of Latvia. This leads to the liquidation of schools, the unification of schools, not always thinking about access to education, but, on the one hand, seeking to encourage the quality of education in some way, making the educational institutions in which the training takes place more quantitatively... and that is understandable on the one hand. On the other hand, where is the problem? The problem is that at national level we do not have a clear strategy for how we will ensure access to education for those young people, those children who are born in the peripherals of Latvia. These solutions are now starting locally in each of these newly formed municipalities, each of these couples in Latvia about 40 municipalities is now trying to re-examine their school network, and not always the interests of the residents of this municipality are fully taken into account. Consequently, the members of the Group of the Greens/Agricultural Union consider that, at this meeting of the Petitions Commission, which was mentioned by the rapporteur, the big questions and strategic questions were not answered. All the more so - in such a broader context, however, we believe that the issue is topical and we would ask for the Ministry of Education and Science to continue working on this issue. It may also be necessary to involve other ministries, including the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, but then it is the Prime Minister's competence to coordinate its matters. We are, in any case, maintaining this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U135	Thank you. Mr. Pugas, what are you going to say on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U136	No, nothing is added on behalf of the Commission. The Commission rejected the request.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U137	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for Member Viktors Valaiņa, Edgars Tatars, Ulda Augulis, Janina Jalinska, Armands Krauzes, Janis Vucanas, Gundars Dauges, Māra Kučinska, Janis Dūklavs, Didžis Šmits Minister for Education and Science Anita Muižniece “Provide an assessment of the adequacy of the planned reorganisation of education institutions of Aluksne municipality to the interests of local residents”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 16, for - 36, for - 1. The request made by Members has been rejected. Dear colleagues, The Foreign Affairs Commission requests that amendments be made to the agenda of the Saeima meeting of 17 March 2022 and, in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Rule 117 of the Saeima roll, to include a report from the Bureau on the draft decision of the Saeima on the establishment of flight ban zones in the territory of Ukraine and measures to limit Russian aggression. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Are Members not against the examination of this draft decision at this sitting? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There are no objections. We are starting to examine the draft decision. The name to the Member Atm Lejny. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U138	Highly honored Presidium! Dear Members, Honourable Members! The Foreign Affairs Commission met at 15.00 and unanimously adopted the statement before you. I will just point three points. The Saeima of the Republic of Latvia: stresses that the unwarranted and unprovoked invasion of the territory of Ukraine by the Russian Federation constitutes a gross violation of the commitments of the Russian Federation, as well as an appeal to the international order based on the law, and is a violation of international law; takes note of the resolution of the President of Ukraine of 28 February 2022 requesting the declaration of Ukrainian airspace as a no-fly zone; calls on UN Member States to take immediate measures to establish a no-fly zone over Ukraine to protect the lives of people and to guarantee security over Ukrainian nuclear power stations; calls on the European Union to step up sanctions against the Russian Federation until it terminates the war of aggression against Ukraine and withdraws its troops from the territory of Ukraine; expresses solidarity and is together with the Ukrainian people in their fight for the sovereignty and security of their country. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U139	Thank you. Members have not applied in the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the establishment of flight ban zones on the territory of Ukraine and measures to limit Russian aggression! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 69, against and refrains. Decision adopted. (Applause) Dear colleagues, We're going on. On the agenda - under the heading ‘Handling draft laws’. Draft law “Amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Support Act”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Mārtiņš Steins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U140	Hello, very honourable Member of the Speaker of the Saeima! Hello, colleagues! Hello, the audience and the audience! Today, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption met promptly and examined the current support measures and amendments to the law “The Ukrainian Civil Support Law” developed by the Ministry of the Interior and other ministries. Let me inform you of the most important amendments adopted. The draft law provides that Ukrainian civilians who have been issued with a travel document in Ukraine have the right to be employed without receiving the document confirming the right to employment referred to in Section 3(1) of the Ukrainian Civil Support Law for a maximum period of 30 days. Accordingly, the employer shall also have the right to employ the Ukrainian civilian referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article for a maximum period of 30 days from the date of conclusion of the employment contract. There is also a procedure for persons to be able to receive these documents. It is established that minors of Ukrainian civilians have the right to obtain general education according to the same procedure and in the same amount as minors asylum seekers according to the laws and regulations establishing the right of asylum seekers to education, including private educational institutions. Pursuant to the Law on Budget and Financial Management, price lists of paid services provided by museums have been developed and established by order of the Cabinet of Ministers. In order to avoid any change in the prices of public museums' paid services, it is stipulated by law that Ukrainian civilians will have access to museums free of charge. The draft law provides that, within the framework of providing support to Ukrainian civilians, municipalities may transfer free of charge movable property to Ukrainian civilians. The draft law also contains further clarifications. The Commission unanimously decided to declare the draft law urgent and asked the Saeima to do so.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U141	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Support Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 70, it's against and abstains. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U142	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading. The Commission unanimously supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U143	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Support Law"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U144	The time limit for submitting tenders shall be 2 p.m. on 21 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U145	The deadline for submitting proposals - 21 March at 14.00 this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U146	Review at the next sitting - 24 March.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U147	Thank you. Review by the Saeima on 24 March. Thank you, Mr. Stein. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Official Electronic Address”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Gatis Zamurs. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U148	Hello, head of the Saeima sitting! In the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy we have examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Official Electronic Addresses”. We received 18 proposals for the second reading. Let's look at them step by step. 1. - my proposal, the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Gata Zamura. Today I would like to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U149	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U150	2. - a proposal from Member Ilze Indrickson. It is stipulated that the use of the official electronic address is mandatory for foreign natural and legal persons who have strengthened their ownership of real estate in the land register. The proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U151	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U152	3. - My proposal, the Parliamentary Secretary, Gata Zamura. That, too, I would like to withdraw.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U153	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U154	4. - My proposal, the Parliamentary Secretary, Gata Zamura. I would like to withdraw that.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U155	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U156	5. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Add paragraph 4 to Article 5, first paragraph, as follows: ‘For the personnel of a soldier, a military officer, a civilian member of the National Armed Forces, a retired soldier, the Ministry of Defence and institutions subordinate thereto, with the exception of the Military Intelligence and Security Service.’ The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U157	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U158	6. - My proposal, the Parliamentary Secretary, Gata Zamura. Replace point 1 of the second paragraph of Article 5 with the word ‘resident’ by the word ‘natural person’. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U159	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U160	7. - My proposal, the Parliamentary Secretary, Gata Zamura. Disable the word and the number ‘or 2’ in the first paragraph of Article 7. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U161	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U162	8 / 8 - My proposal, the Parliamentary Secretary, Gata Zamura. I would like to withdraw that.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U163	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U164	9. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Replace Article 7, second paragraph by ‘Article 5, first paragraph, point 3’ with ‘Article 5, first paragraph, points 2, 3 and 4’. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U165	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U166	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - My proposal, the Parliamentary Secretary, Gata Zamura. I would like to withdraw that. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U167	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U168	11. - My proposal, the Parliamentary Secretary, Gata Zamura. Explain the ways in which the user of the official electronic address account has access to the official electronic address account. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U169	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U170	12. - My proposal, the Parliamentary Secretary, Gata Zamura. I would like to withdraw that.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U171	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U172	13. - My proposal, the Parliamentary Secretary, Gata Zamura. I would like to withdraw that.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U173	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U174	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - My proposal, the Parliamentary Secretary, Gata Zamura. The simple text of the bill is worded ‘with the means of identification given to users’. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U175	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U176	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - My proposal, the Parliamentary Secretary, Gata Zamura. I would like to withdraw that.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U177	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U178	16. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It shall be established that soldiers, landguards, civilian personnel of the National Armed Forces, retired soldiers, employees of the Ministry of Defence and institutions under its authority, with the exception of the Military Intelligence and Security Service, shall establish an official electronic address from 1 April 2022 and shall apply to the said persons the requirement of mandatory use of the official electronic address from 1 May 2022. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U179	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U180	17. - the proposal of Member Indricson. In the transitional provisions, the obligation to use the official electronic address of foreign natural or legal persons who have strengthened their ownership of real estate in the land register shall take effect from 1 January 2024. The proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U181	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U182	And 18. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supplement the draft law with the entry into force provision as follows: ‘The law shall enter into force on the day following its publication.’ The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U183	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U184	We have therefore examined all 18 proposals. I ask the Saeima to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U185	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Official Electronic Addresses” in the second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 64, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection”, second reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U186	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! Five proposals were received for this draft law. 1. - Proposal by Evita Zalīte-Gross, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare. The activities of the family courts, specifying the conditions under which they operate. The Commission has been supported by editorial clarification.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U187	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U188	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Technical. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U189	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U190	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U191	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U192	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editative clarification. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U193	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U194	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The fact is that the law enters into force on the day following its publication.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U195	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U196	All the proposals have therefore been examined. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U197	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management” in the second, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 63, against and refrains. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law on the abolition of the legalisation requirement of documents by diplomatic agents or consular officers, second reading. Member Atis Lejiņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U198	Welcome again. Draft law on the abolition of the legalisation requirement of documents by diplomatic agents or consular officers. No proposal has been received by the panel for the second reading. I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U199	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on draft law on the second, final reading of the European Convention on the Legalisation of Documents by Diplomatic Agents or Consular Officers! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 65, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Chile on Air Traffic”, second reading. On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Member Krista Baumane. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U200	Dear President, Dear colleagues and colleagues! We work with the draft law on air traffic agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Chile drafted by the Ministry of Transport and submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers (No. 1318/Lp13). The agreement will establish a legal framework for regular air services between Latvia and Chile. The Foreign Affairs Commission discussed the draft law for the second reading and endorsed it at its meeting on 9 March this year. No proposals were received for the second reading. I also call on the Saeima to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U201	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law on the second, final reading of the agreement on air traffic between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Chile! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one to - 67, against and refrain from - 67. The law is passed. Draft law on the Common Aviation Area Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part, second reading. On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Member Krista Baumane. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U202	Dear colleagues, We are working on the draft law on the Common Aviation Area Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part (No. 1319/Lp13). The draft law is prepared for adoption and approval of an agreement signed on behalf of the Republic of Latvia last autumn by the Permanent Representative of our country to the European Union. The agreement will be based on mutual access to the air transport markets of the Parties on a level playing field and uniform rules, including in the areas of safety, safety, air traffic management, social aspects and the environment. At its meeting on 9 March this year, the Foreign Affairs Commission discussed and supported the draft law for the second reading. No proposals for second reading were received. I also call on the Saeima to support the second, final reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U203	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on the Agreement on the Common Aviation Area between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part, at second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 66, against and refrains. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Patients’ Rights”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Ilmārs Dūritis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U204	Hello, very honourable Member of the Speaker of the Saeima! Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. High honourable Members! The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs has supported the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Patients’ Rights” (No. 1227/Lp13) prior to third reading. I would just like to remind you briefly that these amendments provide the patient's authorised person with the right to decide whether or not to accept the patient's treatment. The authorised person may also receive all necessary information on the patient’s condition if the patient is located in a medical institution. Under these amendments, the person authorised will also have the highest priority if the patient has authorised such person. This is mainly the case where the patient is unable to decide on his own treatment because of his state of health or age. The amendments provide that the patient may authorise his or her representative to serve his or her interests, whether he or she is a relative, a cohabiting partner or another trust person... who the patient has chosen. No proposals were received for the third reading. I call on my fellow Members to support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U205	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Patients’ Rights” in the third, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 69, against and refrains. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendment to Law “On Specially Protected Natural Areas”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Gatis Zamurs. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U206	All right, all right, all right, all right, In the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy we have examined the draft law “Amendment to the law “On Specially Protected Natural Areas””. The draft law was excellently drafted and we did not receive any proposals for the third reading. I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U207	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to Law “On Specially Protected Natural Areas” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 69, against and refrains. The law is passed. Draft law “Local Government Referendum Law”, third reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission, Member Uldis Budriķis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U208	Highly honored Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, In total, 36 proposals have been received, but I would like to say that most of them are purely editorial. The time between the second and third readings was quite high, and the Central Electoral Commission also submitted a large number of editorial proposals in relation to the laws of the Register of Natural Persons and other registers, so we will go through them. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Indicate which register is to be used. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U209	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U210	2. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Golubeva. Identical for proposal 1. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U211	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U212	3. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Most of the proposals made by the National Administration and Municipal Commission are editorial proposals prepared by the Central Electoral Commission, and this is also the case. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U213	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U214	4. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. CVC. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U215	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U216	5. - A editorial proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U217	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U218	6. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Disabling the reference. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U219	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U220	7. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Textual proposal by the CEC. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U221	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U222	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U223	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U224	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Clarifying the reference. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U225	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U226	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. The place where signatures are collected shall be specified. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U227	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U228	11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Disabling the reference. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U229	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U230	12. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Specification of the CEC. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U231	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U232	13. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Clarifying the reference. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U233	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U234	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Article 15 is excluded as all provisions have been clarified and included in the already supported articles. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U235	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U236	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U237	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U238	16. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. The words “after local time” are closed because the referendum takes place in Latvia and municipality. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U239	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U240	17. - a proposal from the committee responsible. A editorial clarification of the CEC. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U241	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U242	18. - a proposal from the committee responsible. A editorial clarification of the CEC. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U243	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U244	19. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Specification of the CEC. Supported by the Commission
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U245	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U246	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Specification of the CEC. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U247	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U248	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Specification of the CEC. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U249	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U250	22. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U251	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U252	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Specification of the CEC. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U253	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U254	24. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Specification of the CEC. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U255	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U256	26. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Specification of the CEC. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U257	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U258	27. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Specification of the CEC. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U259	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U260	28. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Specification of the CEC. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U261	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U262	29. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Specification of the CEC. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U263	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U264	30. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U265	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U266	31. - a proposal from the committee responsible. CEC editorial proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U267	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U268	32. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Clarifying the reference. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U269	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U270	33. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. According to the established that the court examines the case as a court of first instance and the case is reviewed in the composition of three judges. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U271	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U272	34. - the proposal by the Minister for the Interior, Maria Golubeva. Partially supported, included 35. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U273	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U274	35. - a proposal from the committee responsible. As regards transitional provisions, the Cabinet of Ministers shall submit to the Saeima before 1 July 2022 a draft law on amendments to the Law on the Voters' Register. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U275	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U276	36. - the proposal by the Minister for the Interior, Maria Golubeva. The law shall enter into force on 1 January 2024.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U277	Members are in favour. Let's start a debate. The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U278	Welcome again. Head of the Saeima sitting! Colleagues! It is true joy to see that this long law has finally been drawn out of the charge and has a finish. There are still a lot of things to do, and this law should certainly have been adopted before administrative territorial reform, because then municipalities could choose to live in an administrative area where citizens would have decided. Unfortunately, we are doing the opposite. Horses are in the back of the car. And this is the case that a horse will push a car. I hope that the municipalities will feel that citizens are able to influence various decisions that... takes place in municipalities. I am bothered by the fact that the entry into force of this law is 1 January 2024, because I think the first miracles of administrative territorial reform are already appearing - rather than reducing the administrative apparatus in municipalities, it is growing more and - the larger the centres, the more growing the. closer to large centres. This means that schools will also be closed. This means that the former small district areas will be left to some extent to their fate. It shows that... Perhaps this law will change if the population is active enough and is able to survive. This law will certainly have to be opened up again, because I am not satisfied with this entry into force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U279	Name to Member Uldis Budric. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U280	Dear colleagues, In this case, I would just like to say that it is better late than ever. That draft law has been morphed at that stage or at that stage and since 29 May 1997, when 6 A draft law on municipal surveys was submitted to the Saeima. How many Saeimas are gone? A lot. Finally, we have at least done a minimum: we have made a frame. You can argue about how much percentage is needed to hold a referendum on which subjects to hold a municipal referendum, but a frame has been made, it has been accepted. If honest, I congratulate you all on this. I call for support both for this proposal and for the draft legislation as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U281	Thank you. I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on local government referendums in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 70, it's against and abstains. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Housing Property Law”. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Eriks Pucens. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U282	Hello, fellow Members, again! The National Administration and Municipal Commission worked with the draft law “Amendments to the Housing Property Law” before the third reading. 12 proposals have been received. Most of them are presented for the purpose of regularising the draft law. 1. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Article 1 of the draft law is to be excluded. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U283	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U284	2. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Article 2 of the draft law is to be excluded. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U285	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U286	3. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Article 3 of the draft law is to be excluded. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U287	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U288	4. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Article 5 of the draft law is to be excluded. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U289	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U290	5. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Article 6 of the draft law is to be excluded. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U291	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U292	6. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Article 7 of the draft law is to be excluded. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U293	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U294	7. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Provision shall be made for the first paragraph of Article 15 to be formulated accordingly. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U295	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U296	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. In Article 15, the third paragraph is added as follows: The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U297	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U298	9. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Article 15.3 is added. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U299	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U300	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Article 12 of the draft law is to be excluded. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U301	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U302	11. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Article 13 shall be excluded. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U303	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U304	12. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. It is provided to supplement the transitional provisions by paragraphs 7 and 8 in the relevant wording. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U305	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U306	I call for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U307	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Housing Property Law” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 68, against and refrains - not. The law is passed. Draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on International Assistance’, third reading. Member Atis Lejiņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U308	Yeah, again... I almost said, "friends"... Good afternoon once again, Members and Members. Highly honored Presidium! We consider the draft law on “Amendments to the Law on International Assistance” (No. 1271/Lp13), third reading. The Foreign Affairs Commission did not receive any proposal. The Commission invites the Saeima to support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U309	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on International Assistance". Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law “The Law of the Holy Peter of Riga”, third reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Arvils Asheraden. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U310	Hello, dear colleagues! Let’s see the draft law “The Law of the Holy Peter” in the third, final reading. In short, on behalf of the Commission, I can say that the Commission has done a great deal of work to resolve all possible issues raised at second reading. There were two big questions here... Riga City Council and the Holy Peter Church of Riga. By examining the solutions offered by Riga City Council... Unfortunately, they could not be accepted. A much more complicated situation in the last week... Before the second reading, there was a disagreement between the Catholic Church and the Lutheran Church about the use of this church. This one too... We have asked for negotiations on behalf of the Commission... on behalf of both of these two denominations. It has to be said that many consultations have taken place at the Conference of Bishops, there has been agreement, and they are included in this draft law. A total of 48 proposals were received for the third reading. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U311	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U312	2. - Member Pimenova's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U313	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U314	Dear Members, The material cultural and historical values of the Holy Peter Church of Riga are described in the first paragraph of Section 2. However, in my view, this description is incomplete. First of all, it is necessary to name those who created and preserved these values to this day, because the cultural historical value and its creator - it is always known as an indistinguishable whole. Secondly, the creation and restoration of cultural historical value is often of very close importance. This applies in particular to architectural values. The echoes of architectural values are often valued as high as the originals. The attitude towards the Holy Peter Church of Riga is an example of this attitude. The Supreme Council indirectly recognised the restoration of the Holy Peter Church in Riga as an event as important as the creation of Peter's Church in the Middle Ages, because it identified two monuments - the Dome Church and Peter's Church - as similar values of particular importance. In the 1990s, the Dome church was kept clean because it was not affected by the destruction of war, but Peter’s church, which was destroyed by the war, stands next to Dome, thanks to its restoration. The restoration of Peter's church from the ruins to the present form is already a cultural and historical value in itself - the same as its creation. Although already mentioned at the beginning of the 13th century, Peter’s first high tower, with its great rooster at the end of its peak, was won by the church in 1491. This form of church is linked to the name of the master of Rostock’s construction, Johan Rumeshotel. The church has been destroyed four times during its existence. After the first collapse, a new tower was built, but the incomplete tower burned in the great fire of Riga. And again the Rigans built a new tower for their church. Its restoration was related to Rupert Bindenūš, the Riga City Construction Master. Once again, the church was destroyed by lightning. The restoration work of the tower was led by the master of carpenter Johann Vilbern. For two hundred years, this unique wooden tower slipped high across the city’s buildings, until during the Second World War, it was set on fire by an artillery shooter. Its prewar appearance was restored in 1971. Architects, engineers, builders and restorers were skilled and highly skilled in implementing the project developed by architect Andrejs Holcmanis... project of architect Pēteris Saulīss and Gunārs Zirs, using the engineering engineer Kārlis Skerbelis’s design iron construction and restoration works under the leadership of Eriks Darbvars. In total 350 restorers dedicated their working life to the restoration of the Holy Peter Church of Riga. At that time, the restoration of Peter’s church achieved the best result in the working and building conditions of engineers and with the materials available at that time. In the Middle Ages Peter’s church was restored to Riga’s money. After the 17th century, when nations began to develop and strengthen, they also provided money for reconstruction. The recognition of the state contribution of the Soviets has already passed the stage; in fact, their opinion has been given by the Supreme Council of the Republic of Latvia, when it called Peter's Church a cultural monument of special importance to the state, repeating the same attitude as that of the Soviet state, restoring Peter's Church as a cultural monument. A huge amount of money was invested in the restoration and reconstruction of Peter’s church building. Its money was deliberately allocated and spent on the purposeful and successive restoration of the sacral architectural monument, mobilising funds that were generated by the whole society of the time. I propose that the first paragraph of paragraph 2 be supplemented with the following words: “After the Second World War, the restored and reborn Holy Peter Church of Riga is an example of the skills and artistic skills of Latvian architects, engineers, builders and restorers.” I call on you to support my proposal, Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U315	Name to Member Ritvar Janson. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U316	I'm not going to talk about restoration of Peter's church in the 1970s. Both the working group and the Commission have already discussed this issue, broken the threads, and this is the basis for a whole scientific conference. I would like to say to you, honourable Members, that this proposal cannot be supported for a completely different - legal - reason. If we support Mr. Pimenova's statement, "after the Second World War, state resources from ruins have been restored", then we are basically saying that we are in favour of it... that at that time there were Latvian SSRs, which we support... Legally, because it was the budget of the Latvian SSR. And for the funds of its budget this restoration was carried out, not for the funds of the Republic of Latvia. The only funds of the Republic of Latvia at that time were obtained from the gold that brought interest from investments in the US Central Bank. And the Head of the Embassy of Latvia in the United States did not send any money to this restoration of Peter Church. Consequently, we cannot legitimise the occupation regime and support this wording. I call for this to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U317	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U318	Thank you. In the Commission 2. - Mr Pimenova's proposal was rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U319	Members shall not object. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U320	That's... 3. ...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U321	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Member Igora Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 2, against - 46, refraining from - 11. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U322	Thank you. 3. - the proposal by Member Evita Zalytė-Gross to exclude the second paragraph of Article 2. Not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U323	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U324	4. - The proposal by Mr Teirumnieks and Mr Kursīte-Pakules. This was also not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U325	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - the motion of Mr Teirumnieks and Ms Kursītes! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not for - 15, not for - 43, refrain - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U326	Thank you. 5. - a proposal from Members Feldman, Teirumnieks and Kursys. Neither is it supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U327	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U328	6. - a proposal from Members Feldman, Teirumnieks and Kursys. Not supported. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U329	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - the proposal from Members Feldman, Teirumnieks and Course! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 15, it's against - 44, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U330	7. - a proposal from Member, Ms Rooss. Not supported. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U331	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - To the proposal of Member Roos! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 15, 45, abstain - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U332	Thank you. 8 / 8 - a proposal from Members Feldman, Teirumnieks and Kursys. Not supported. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U333	Vote? ( Interface: “Don’t! ” ) Don’t. So Members do not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U334	9. - a proposal from Member Evita Zalytė-Gross. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U335	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U336	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U337	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U338	11. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U339	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U340	12. - a proposal from Members Feldman, Teirumnieks and Kursys. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U341	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U342	13. - The proposal by Member Mārtage. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U343	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U344	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from Member, Ms Rooss. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U345	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U346	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Pimenova's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U347	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U348	Describing the importance of the property of the church in the fourth part of Section 2 in creating a sense of religious understanding, political maturity and place of affiliation of the inhabitants of Riga, the authors of the bill managed not to mention that the church had been the main church of Rigas since its establishment in 1226 until its abolition in 1877. Peter Church for 650 years has been a symbol of the independence of the Riga government and the city community in the Middle Ages. It is paradoxical that the text adopted at second reading - not only in Article 2 but in all the draft law - does not mention the word "Rate". So a good layer of events in the history of Peter’s church has simply been omitted in the bill. The Riga Holy Peter Church is a tradition that has developed in the Middle Ages – since the church was built in the very beginning of the 13th century. I'm not talking about property rights, about legal fixation. I am talking about the feeling, about the attitude of Rigaers towards the Church of Peter, which has survived so far. And now this attitude is common to all, whether it be believers or atheists, and regardless of ethnic origin. In the Middle Ages, every sovereign power trying to spread and strengthen influence in Riga was its own church. It was the Church of Jur, the Archbishop of Riga - Dom, the city - St. Peter's Church, which, unlike other churches, never belonged to the Archbishop. In the age of the Reformation, Riga's race practically arranged the life of the church in Riga and turned against the order of the old church. It appointed a priest, Andreas Knopken, in the Holy Peter Church. In November 1524, the Ruth prohibited the organization of church services, but later seized its property. Rāte had a full talk about the reconstruction of the church. It was the race that made the decision to put a rooster, not a cross, on the side of the church tower. Riga wanted its church to be bigger than others, wishing to raise its prestige. The monumental building has been built for centuries; it has not only been maintained but also gradually transformed by the citizens of Riga. It was then and precisely for this reason that the Holy Peter Church of Riga had risen above the other churches of Riga, not hidden next to the built John's Church or the nearby Dome and the church of Jacob. It was then that Peter's church became a symbol of Riga and a sign of recognition, one of the dominants of Old Riga, who is a business card and identity mark of Riga and is included in the Latvian Cultural Canon. And the reason for this is Peter Church's special link with the independence of the city community. Therefore, I propose that the fourth paragraph of Section 2 be supplemented with the following words: “The Holy Peter Church of Riga has been a symbol of medieval urban authority of Riga, the institution of the city municipality, the Riga rother church and the independence of the city community.” I call for my proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U349	I closed the debate. For the Commission, please... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U350	Thank you. In the Commission 15. - Member Pimenova's proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U351	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 15. - Member Igora Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 2, against - 44, refraining from - 11. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U352	Thank you. 16. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U353	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U354	17. - a proposal from Members Mednes, Barks and Bisque. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U355	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U356	18. - a proposal from Members Mednes, Barks and Bisque. It has been examined by the Commission. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U357	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Ainars Barkis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U358	Dear President of the Saeima. Members of the Bureau! Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues. In fact, that is why we did not withdraw this proposal so that we could once again talk about an apparently treasonable transaction in which you, those who organize it, give back the temple of Latvia and Riga and one of the symbols - the Riga Holy Peter Church - to a foundation founded by certain people, in which the real, true beneficiary of the transaction will be a person from Germany - with a very far-reaching business concept of acquiring and using the church. No arguments were put forward so that the majority of the members of the Latvian State legislator, the Saeima, would, as a minimum, insist on seeking a compromise between the Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church and the Riga Dome in such a way that Riga does not lose its historical church, nor would it lose its church, where a significant part of the history of Riga was created. A church built and renovated also for the money of Rigans. A church that has been owned for hundreds of years by both the Riga court and the ministering congregation. Our proposal is to maintain Riga as an owner, but to strengthen the foundation as a legal ruler. Yes, we have come up with a complex legal formula, but the majority of the members of the Commission did not have the courage to understand it and to stand together for national interests. I still believe - and I will not change my view - that we do not give this church back to the Lutheran Church or Catholics; we give it back to the German congregation founded in 2001 in Riga, which some people will own the foundation... the absolute majority. And Mr. Messner will have a single signature right. Colleagues have ignored the active action of both the President of Latvia and the Riga City Council... that the foundation of the Holy Peter Church of Riga must also find a suitable place for Riga. What is the price of this transaction? Are those 30 million countyes from Germany? You know, I thought we didn't trade our identity until now. I thought, but the reality is different. Sorry, all those who fight this fight about the right of Riga, the capital of Latvia, to their church... He rose early in the morning and went to sleep late in the evening... We did as much as we could, tried to build tactics right and less rude than our opponent. We sought compromises and legal solutions. Special thanks to the Deputy Mayor of Riga City Council Linda Ozola, who stood until the last and fell for a fair and respectful attitude to the Holy Peter Church of Riga as the value of Riga in our capital. Linda Ozola did not break even when my colleague Aigars Bikše (from Development/Par!) came to the last meeting of the Saeima Education, Culture and Science Commission to defend the rights of Riga. Groups) expressed their surprise: the Mayor of Riga no longer supports this proposal. ‘ Wonderful, “gentlemenic” and “male” actions from Riga Mayor – at the very last moment, in the very last stage before the finish line! Harmful and harsh are the realities of our un principledism. Finally. It is about this proposal and the painful realities - with the words of Aspazia (aspazia was a birthday yesterday): “Take off to me as much as you want, branch, I always regrowing power. May my bow blow with the wind, I will stand still again.” (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U359	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U360	18. The proposal was not supported at the commission meeting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U361	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 18. - To the Mednes, Barks and Bisque Members' proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 17, against - 46, abstaining. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U362	19. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U363	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U364	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from Members Mednes, Barks and Bisque. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U365	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U366	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U367	Members are in favour. And here I ask Mr. Asheraden. I would like to inform you that the Saeima Bureau has received a request from Members Adamovich, Plant, Bikše, Feldman and Dzintar to declare a break at the Saeima meeting on 17 March this year by 17.00 and a break by 9 a.m. on 24 March this year. We must vote on this proposal. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the motion put to the vote by Mr Adamovič, Mr Augulis, Mr Bikše, Mr Feldman and Mr Dzintara regarding the parliamentary session of 17 March until 5 p.m. and the continuation of the sitting on 24 March at 9 a.m.! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -59, against -5, refrains - not. So we have this proposal... We have voted. Mr Asheraden, we will continue on 24 March. We stop, yeah. Dear colleagues, not yet... The sitting has not yet been closed. Please allow you to be informed of the replies to Members' questions scheduled for today, March 17, at 5 p.m. The question of 'Receipt of refugees from Ukraine' tabled to the Minister of the Interior, Maria Golubeva, is raised by Members. The written responses received are not satisfied, but the Minister informs that an oral answer can be provided. Please pay attention to the applicants! Today at 17.00, the Minister will give an oral answer. The written responses received to the Members' question to Prime Minister Artur Krišjānis Kariņš and Minister for the Interior Maria Golubeva “On the Prevention of Internal Security and Provocations of the State” are not satisfied, but the Minister for the Interior informs that it is possible to come and give an oral answer. The written reply received by the Minister of Agriculture, Kaspars Gerhards, on food security in Latvia, satisfies the Members’ question. The written responses received to Members' questions to the Minister for Defence, Mr Pabriks, about strengthening civil protection capabilities in the event of threats to the military conflict, are not satisfied, but the Minister informs us that he cannot attend and give an oral answer because he is on mission. Membership question to Prime Minister Artur Krišjānis Kariņš “On Civil Protection in the Event of a Military Conflict”... The question is addressed to the Minister for the Interior, Maria Golubeva. The written responses received are not satisfied, but the Minister informs that an oral answer can be provided. The written reply received to the Members' question to the Minister for Health, Mr Pavluts, about the period of validity of Covid-19 certificates, is not satisfied. The Minister informs that due to the busy nature of the event it is not possible to attend and give an oral answer. So I informed you that today, at 17.00, the replies to Members' questions will start - right away. And I would also like to draw attention to the questions that have been tabled by Members. Members Ramona Petraviča, Maris Možvillo, Karina Sprūde, Ralfs Nemiro and Aldis Gobzems have submitted a question to Minister for Welfare Gatis Eglitis “On planned measures to reduce the risk of poverty for the people of Latvia”. Members Viktors Valainis, Uldis Augulis, Edgars Tavars, Didzis Šmits and Armands Krauze have submitted a question to the Minister of the Interior Marija Golubeva about the planned reorganisation, legitimacy, implementation and costs of the State Police. And the Members Ramona Petraviča, Karina Sprūde, Maris Možvillo, Jūlija Stepanenko, Aldis Gobzems and Ralph Nemiro have submitted a question to the Minister for Health, Daniel Pavļutas, about restrictions on assembly to reduce the prevalence of Covid-19 infection. Questions will be referred to ministers. Please have Members' presence regime! Name to the member of the Secretary of the Saeima to read the results of the registration of Members. And at the sitting of the Saeima on 17 March this year, I declare a break.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U368	Colleagues! Has not registered: Iveta Benhena–Beeken, Raimonds Bergmanis, Aldis Blumbergs, Mārtiņš Bondars, Andrejs Judins, Artuss Kaimiņš, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Ivans Klementjevs, Rihards Kols, Armands Krauze, Janīna Kursīte, Inese Lībiņa–Egne, Linda Medne, Ināra Mūrniece, Juris Pūce, Inguna Rybena, Dace Rukšāne–Ščipčinska, Karina Sprūde, Mārtiņš Šteins, Lubova Švekovs, Edgars Tavars, Edmunds Teirūda, Vita Anda Teļāda, Jānis Tutins... It's here... and Victor Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-03-17-PT13-2370-U369	Interruption at the meeting until 9 a.m. on 24 March this year. ( Interruption)
