ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2353-U1	Dear colleagues, We will begin to review the agenda of the second remote emergency session of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 27 January 2022. On the agenda – referral of draft laws to commissions and first reading. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the draft law on measures to reduce extraordinary increases in energy prices presented by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission be referred to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. And we start to look at it at first reading. On behalf of the commission responsible, Member Ilze Indricksone.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2353-U2	Hello, colleagues! The budget and financial (tax) commission examined the draft law on measures to reduce exceptional increases in energy prices. The main objective of the draft law is to reduce the negative socio-economic impact of extreme increases in energy prices on the well-being of citizens and economic growth. The draft law provides for fixed-term support measures that will reduce the negative impact of the exceptional increase in energy prices on households as well as on the economy. The draft law provides for two main blocks of measures: one for direct support measures to reduce prices, and the other for support measures for certain households, for certain groups of persons. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined and supported the draft law for the first reading, and is asking for... The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks for urgency to be established for this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2353-U3	Members do not want to debate the urgency of the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on measures to reduce exceptional increases in energy prices! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2353-U4	The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission examined the draft law for the first reading. There were also discussions, and we made some improvements (Sound break.) ... Recommendation for a Overall, the draft law was endorsed and assessed by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission as very urgent and necessary. And I will say this at this point: we will continue to work on the proposals. I call for support at first reading. The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission also supported the first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2353-U5	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2353-U6	Hello, colleagues! I believe that we really urgently need to adopt this law today. Urgently because Latvian citizens urgently need help to pay public bills. We all know the municipalities where the population suffers the most from price rises - these are Pierīga and Daugavpils... Happily, there are no Kurzeme municipalities on the list of these most affected municipalities. Yesterday there was a sub-commission meeting on housing issues, we discussed a number of issues and problems related to the energy crisis in households, and we also talked about what other municipalities were doing wrong then, unlike Kurzeme municipalities, where energy crises... At present, price rises are less rapid and visible to citizens. The main problem appears to be the connection of heating directly to gasification. The fact that Kurzeme remained the most gas supplied in the whole territory of Latvia played its lucky role this time - the price increase in Kurzeme municipalities is not so rapid. If we are talking about this particular draft law, I would like to draw your attention to one important fact. I do not know how many Members have noticed that this draft law provides for compensation for price increases for municipal households where the price per megawatt-hour is over EUR 68. If you looked at the current prices, you would see that this is the limit of 68, for example, which separates all Riga residents, who are customers of “Riga heat”, from the others, because if there were 67 euros, then the government would have to compensate the Riga residents too, but this has not happened. And another interesting fact is that already the application from “Riga heat” for the tariff increase is lying in the service regulator, but this increase will not take effect earlier than March. This means that if the Rigans get this compensation, it will not be before March. It looks very weird. I do not know to what extent it relates to politics or to the fact that, if the government had to pay also to the Rigans, the amount of this compensation would be much higher than the current 450 million that the government sought to compensate for the increase in prices. But I think in this case... All these 450 million - that is, the budget money, to a large extent, it is borrowed money and it is going to be paid for by the whole of our people - not only for us, but also for future generations. And this is the price not only for this, but also for the mistakes of the previous Latvian governments in the field of energy. And the key mistake is that we do not have a strategy for the future development of energy. What do I mean? The existence of any strategy also involves risk analysis and crisis operations... any of the events of risk. I do not believe that, in this case, none of the economic ministers who were here for us in recent years considered such a risk that, here, at the energy transition to a free market... whether there is an increase in the price. Didn't that really happen? Didn't any of the governments and this government really have a crisis plan - a plan for action to be taken in that case? In this case, you make us pay for our mistakes. Yes, we will vote today in favour of this draft law, its urgency, so that it can enter into force today, but with only one intention: to help citizens as soon as possible, because everything that could have happened has already happened, and most importantly, that Latvian citizens do not overshadow themselves with debts, which they then, in the future, will become a threat of losing their housing. That would really be a tragedy that we must not allow. But I call on all Members of the Saeima to think about how to force the current government to finally draw up an energy strategy, to ask the government for an analysis of all the risks and a clear and bright plan for action already this year, without waiting for the next Saeima elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2353-U7	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2353-U8	Yes, colleagues, thank you. Of course, this draft law is for support, but it is late. We know that the cruel price leap was felt in households and citizens already in December. And companies are also facing a very sharp increase in prices - they have been invoiced both for electricity, for gas and for heat. Since these problems appeared and affected very hard people of Latvia already in the beginning of December. It's not suddenly, it's not now. It is already the end of January, we are only now discussing and adopting this draft law. Another important thing in the context of this draft law. This bill - this is the benefit policy chosen by the ruling coalition. Based on publicly available information and discussions at the Cabinet of Ministers, it can be seen that a reduction in taxes was also considered at an initial stage. If, by the end of the year, value added tax on energy would be reduced, for example, then according to the Ministry of Finance, it would have an impact on the state budget... It's about 200 million... EUR 250 million... Today we are redistributing benefits... for four months in support of the policy... 250 million... It must be understood that the provision of benefits will also cost and its costs will be administrative - in order to ensure the administration of the measures in question. And it's going to cost... money for taxpayers and citizens. And if we compare benefits and compare tax policies by reducing... then there is a good question: what could be the lowest administrative cost of applying such instruments? Another important thing. The government and the governing politicians do not consider the possibility at all... and continues the discussions on the application of the reduced tax rate. Why is this important? I have drawn attention to the fact that this would also be important in the context of a possible abolition or reduction of excise duty, because it would directly make businesses, directly producing companies, competitive or at least stable them in a relatively... in a competitive situation with other companies that already have reduced tax rates in rich and developed countries such as Germany (as Germany has reduced tax rates for energy products), France (as France also envisages tax reductions for energy supplies) and Italy (also introduced tax instruments to mitigate the effects of the energy crisis). It is not envisaged in Latvia. Latvia's ruling coalition applies and uses only a benefit policy. At least this is obvious in the draft law. How will the small and medium-sized business survive with such a policy, as it could be competitive compared to Poland itself - we will probably see it in the near future, but it is already clear that cosmetics produced in Poland, for example, and cosmetics produced by Latvian company - our Latvian company! - will lose competition, lose prices and thus lose both in the domestic market as a result of a fall in purchasing power and in the foreign market as a result of competition. And if we are also talking about very ambitious plans for smart reindustrialisation, then smart reindustrialisation is certainly not possible without a competitive policy on reducing energy prices and adapting it to the challenges involved. I support the existing draft laws and the proposed measures, but I want the public and voters not to take on board this cheap trick, which is now being used by politicians in the ruling coalition, by offering benefits and redistributing money only to the most severely affected groups and households at very high risk. I think the long-term... During the period of time it would be necessary to really discuss and anticipate tax incentives in order to ensure the competitiveness of Latvian companies in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2353-U9	The name of the Member, Ilze Indrickson.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2353-U10	I would like to remind and highlight those who may not have heard in the past that this draft law is really a short-term aid solution for this heating season - for a period of four months, but along with this solution the government is working and forming a medium-term action plan that would be solutions for the next heating season for already part of the consumers who are now dependent on natural gas heating... and can also be said to continue to implement these support measures in the coming years even more broadly, so that we can avoid similar price rises and unpredictable price crises as soon as possible. And I would also like to clarify that, after this draft law, only extreme increases in heating are compensated, that is to say, for heating supplies - both district heating and gas heating, because there are also... we're very careful... The Ministry of Economics carefully assessed the current price level and averages, as well as researching where and what price increases have been made for certain service providers. Together, eight heat suppliers and service providers would currently qualify for support. When it comes to Riga and other regions, there are several municipalities where the service is just under 68 euros per megawatt-hour... This price is set by the regulator, which is in fact the price of the same level that is currently being set in Riga, and its municipalities have already set such a price, that is to say, at the end of the previous heating season, that is in spring 2021, and there has not been any effect on any price increase, but it is the cost of a quality service that the regulator has approved, to say, heating services where local renewable resources are used. So maybe 68 is the threshold that was qualified as the first threshold from which should start compensating for what could be... is an extreme rise and directly linked to the increase in gas prices, which is in fact the most true in the municipalities where this supply of gas is available... which is located east of Riga, Riga region... and Zemgale also has municipalities where there is still, a much higher tariff at present in some villages than in Riga. Of course, at a time when a tariff of more than 68 euro will be approved in one of the municipalities, it will automatically qualify for this aid, but of course if it is slightly higher, it could be said that the cents (not even the euro) for each recipient of the service, because only the section that is above this extreme price rise will be compensated. At the same time, I would like to stress the fact that there are two support for gas (A sound breakdown.) ... Services. For those who use gas for heating up to 500 cubic metres per month, which is a medium-sized household, the cost of gas will be compensated at 100 per cent from January to four months, and for those who spend more than 500 cubic metres - at 75 per cent of the cost. I would like to emphasise that in the field of business support there is adequate support at present: compensation of 100 % of electricity system service charges, as well as compensation of the mandatory procurement component and the capacity component, which will reach direct entrepreneurs. Direct support payments for specific groups of the population are aimed specifically at the socially disadvantaged groups, which are beneficiaries of all types of pensions, which are children and also young people, and young people studying and... studies on the ground and there are students, up to the age of 24, who in my opinion are also a very good solution - to support the very young people, who are currently very high expenditure, unexpected and substantial expenditure. I call for the draft law to be supported at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2353-U11	The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2353-U12	Hello, Speaker of the Saeima! Hello, colleagues! Hello, viewers and listeners! This support for electricity users in the business environment sounds beautiful, but there is one very important indicator that is not taken into account at the moment, i.e. around 45 percent of electricity consumers still operate old contracts. What do you mean, old contracts? Old contracts mean that this price of electricity... These users are currently supplied at a price not exceeding 10 cents. In turn, for those who concluded contracts in the summer, Latvenergo consultants recommended, however, that they choose the current offer, which looked better in the future, i.e., the electricity price was attracted to the stock exchange price. Consequently, given that these contracts were concluded at different times, there is now a situation where, let us assume, two identical sawmills with this benefit are rendered uncompetitive. In Vinne, those who currently have old contracts that compensate for transmission costs that compensate for OICs and VAT. And now these entrepreneurs will continue to pay this so-called old price, which does not exceed perhaps 10 cents. For those who have concluded a market price agreement, by compensating for this transmission charge, the price of electricity will still remain 20 cents and even more cents per kilowatt. This means that this benefit is currently having the opposite effect, people who trusted Latvenergo's consultants and concluded the contract at that moment as if it were a good contract get hostage's role, because the price of electricity is still much higher for them. I hope that the Ministry of Economics will listen to these considerations and, however, will create an opportunity to set perhaps some price, where only the transmission costs are compensated and the OIC will not follow... that everyone in the same situation, thus leading to unequal treatment in this market. Consequently, I call on the Ministry of Economic Affairs to give serious consideration to this matter. The next one is certainly an issue that affects everyone and already in the long term... and do not look at it all in the short term, but perhaps finally draw out from the Saeima's charge the law on the elimination of the unfair system of OIC, which has been stuck there since last summer, perhaps complete the fight against the OIC system and convince Latvian citizens that they have to stop paying these payments, which is to some extent unfair if we look... vis-à-vis other countries. I call on the Ministry of Economic Affairs to reflect on this support mechanism once again and, however, to revise the system of compensation for both the OIC and VAT costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2353-U13	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2353-U14	Hello, very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Highly honored colleagues! Today is 27 January, and the government is offering us a second solution - how to tackle the problem of rising energy prices for this heating season. We all understand, of course, when this heating season began - not yesterday and even January 1, but much, much earlier. So we are talking about the problem - the rise in energy prices - which was known (at least for those who are following something in international energy markets) from August... from August last year definitely, which the government had no idea when the government was setting up, led the Saeima to draft this year's budget. The government, so to speak, absolutely did not see anything related to the rise in energy prices. Then, as we remember, at the end of last year, the government offered us one so-called complex solution which, according to several government politicians, will solve this problem - how to support the population at this difficult time. We remember very well that many, including myself, replied that we would look... When citizens expect their bills in January, let us see how they react. Of course, that is what has happened. The government has understood that the complex solution is inadequate, inadequate. Now we have the next one. I will remind you, my fellow Members, of what it was not long for all these months, then at least a rather frequent debate. They were in favour of a proposal that came up as early as September and was tabled several times, namely a reduction in the VAT rate on energy sources - both gas and electricity - which was also about heating. What have we heard from the government and coalition politicians about why this particular solution is not good? We have heard two kinds of arguments. First. We have been told that the Minister of Finance states that, here, this VAT reduction is too costly for the public budget. If a reduced VAT rate were introduced for both gas, heat and electricity, according to the Ministry of Finance, it would cost the state budget more than EUR 60 million. Even taking into account what the Ministry of Economics has recently proposed, it would cost about EUR 100 million if I did not be mistaken. The second argument from many coalition politicians, government politicians, was that reducing value added tax on energy - but it is not an targeted support mechanism, because it will benefit all those families, all those people in Latvia who have private homes with pools, who, from the point of view of coalition politicians... Apparently, there are almost every other person. So that's... Now we see this solution proposed by the government. And what do we see? First. We see that in this proposed solution, the price to the public budget is EUR 250 million. That, of course, is all the money that has been borrowed. So this government of Karini, telling us for months that, for example, we cannot reduce the rate of value added tax because it is, however, too expensive for the public budget, this measure could cost up to EUR 100 million, now offering a solution of EUR 250 million. I also do not count on the cost of this complex solution. Then we look at the purpose of this proposed solution. EUR 50 per child, EUR 20 for pensioners. Perhaps one of the coalition politicians could say what ambition estimates are behind these figures? Why 50? Why not 45? Why not 55? Why not 60? Why 20, not 30, pensioners? What is it all based on? How does this relate to the consumption of electricity, gas and heat by these specific families? It happens then that - according to the government's idea - families with children - certainly do not have private homes with swimming pools (as a result grant for each child). Is that what we need to understand? Here, fellow Members, marks... This is obviously what many coalition politicians have been talking about: that this is such a modern and wise solution. And here, fellow Members, unfortunately, is the handwriting of Karin's government. If we remember, as was the case almost two years ago - at the beginning of the comma crisis: restrictions, the need to grant benefits to those sectors and businesses whose activities are completely closed or restricted due to restrictions imposed by the government... We all remember well that, at the very beginning, the government was actually even proud of the fact that, because of its very strict criteria for receiving aid, many companies, people cannot really get their support. Remember, the government... Some of the officials were even proud of the fact that, as a food worker, they received a soft allowance of about three euros per month. That was the first stage. There was a lot of criticism, as we remember, on the part of the opposition, of the proposal to revise the criteria, to ensure adequate support and so on. If we remember, it took a lot of time for the government to review and do all this. And who followed then? After that, the opening of the fiscal locks followed, when the government in many cases even started to throw (I would stress - the busy!) money for people. As a result, the country of Latvia, compared to what I think, is almost any other country in Europe that has suffered a communion crisis... we have been through this community crisis by increasing our public debt by... Well, now more than seven billion euros in less than four years. So that's the handwriting is that the government initially does not see the problem for a long time, then after a few, at best, reminders from the opposition, the government is starting to work very, very slowly on solutions. When these solutions come from the government, they are not only late, but not specifically targeted, let us say so. Very likely wasted. So today, my colleague, we are in such a situation... Of course, to criticise this government proposal too much, given the fact that there is 27 January and the heating season after a month could already go to the end, to send the government back, in some way to force the government to review something - no Saeima Member will, of course, have a hand to do that. Good at least that this is another solution for 27 January. Thank you very much, you, the honourable government. At last, after... I would like to wish - perhaps not for this government, then for future governments - that if we tackle the crises in this way, starting with the communion crisis and now with the energy price crisis and so on, then, of course, there are many millions of euros in the world that we have not yet borrowed and which can still borrow. But, colleagues, if we continue to do so, then we will no longer even be going to spend the money so much. With such a pace, with such smart, modern and thoughtful solutions - so we will not be able to continue for a long time. There is no other way out to support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2353-U15	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2353-U16	Good evening, everybody! The decisions proposed by these government parties have many nuances, many aspects that can show how irresponsible, incompetent and permissive this power is. Some examples have already been mentioned, but these are just flowers. I suggest you look at a couple more things, remember them, and think about something that has been talked about more than once. In the current situation, the Saeima has not turned into... as is provided for in the Constitution, as the decision-making body of this country, but in fact we are working as an executive mechanism of the coalition council, which simply legalises the decisions of the coalition council. So there's a bunch of people here, just like we've seen in bandit movies, a mafia meeting that decides something, and then everyone has to do it. This bill is an example of how it has happened. So today, what we do... This situation really has to be resolved, but how is it being dealt with? If you take the annexation of this bill... if someone has read it, what is the basis for what we are doing today, for what we all need to vote on today? The grounds for this agreement are the agreement of 18 January 2022 between the Coalition of Government Building Parties. According to this agreement... 1999, they agreed, and now you will have to decide, we will all have to decide what demonstrates this anti-democratic against the Constitution... The procedure whereby democracy and the rule of law have been stolen in our country shall be enshrined. Just these parties... this link believes: this is a pretty good decision that everyone needs, and that is why we can declare in a direct text... How it works. But now I will touch on the substance of this decision a couple of important things that are hidden and worth thinking about and keeping them, because I think it could have very far-reaching, serious consequences. First of all, what does this decision entail? One of the instruments is to compensate for the OIC, which will be spent on entie million. Colleagues, I would like to remind you that, long ago, at the beginning of this Saeima, we started... One of the first work we started was the amendment of the electricity market law, which became stuck for a very long time, because all those political parties who had promised their voters that they would fight the OIC's sphere, on the contrary - began desperately to protect it. And as a result... Nevertheless, it was possible to get through this law... Get in important things. One of the important things that could be achieved with regard to OIC was that the government had to draw up the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers by summer last year to prevent this over-compensation. And here we are talking about many, many million, of the unduly excluded expenditure, of the incompletely included amounts of aid received by these operators, as a result of which they continue to receive this excessively generous aid at all times. And now what's going on? These rules, in violation - now in violation - of the law (because the law stipulated that they should have been drafted last summer, sadly... last minute was last August)... they are still not developed. Moreover, according to the law, it was necessary to re-evaluate these regulations within six months of drawing up them. This has not been done. And now what are we going to do? This government of Karin... A sword that lays the foundations for the OIC's sphere and blocks, which does not allow its government to pass through these regulations, which have still not been adopted... Now, thanks to this action, we will pay millions of taxpayers' money to provide this excessively generous support for these businesses. It is a story of how good and responsible this power is. Go on. If we are talking about these 250 million. A large part of this will go to remove the heating tariffs to compensate for this disproportionate increase, which is, of course, linked to the increase in gas prices. Much is said about why gas prices have risen, but there are two components here (as I have already mentioned in the foreign policy debate). One is indeed these objective external factors, which were not dependent on us. And these are really these climates... unforeseen weather conditions, global demand - gas... demand on world markets and other things. But there are also certain subjective things that depended on us and which actually... those who have created this major part of the increase in the price of gas. And this is about how our gas market was built, which was thrown out of one extreme into a completely different extreme. It was the most regulated, monopolized and was made the most liberal... Right away, maximum speculative. When this gas market was built, I warned. Two basic things that I pointed out to the power of the time, which, by far, has the same power now in power, the same political parties: if you make the most liberal market... and I asked: just practically tell me how you planted it in front of you that now there will be thermal companies in Latvia that will need to consider all possible risks from... Trader Risks... trends in the world gas market and choose the best, best offer? Do you really have a full mind, thinking that they will be able to do so? Because that was exactly what this Latvian gas market model was designed for. And those who designed it (and these are the same power parties) said with all seriousness: “Yes, everything will be okay!” I asked: “And who will take those risks? Who will take responsibility if a heat company buys the wrong gas or buys the gas from a trader who has told all kinds of fairy tales and ultimately doesn't get the gas at all?" And then in complete seriousness (it is documented... the answers to the Saeima, which everyone can get acquainted with) then the Minister of Economics, in my opinion, Mr Asheraden, said: "Seriously, there will be an emergency. There will be an energy emergency, and all." “And what will be the fault?” - “They will be guilty, they will answer. We're going to take care of households, the rest are guilty of themselves." In complete seriousness, it was made. I managed to make sure that with regard to Incukalns... Why is there gas in Incukalns this year? Because I showed that this system makes Incukalns simply a market for speculators and Incukalns has no safe requirements... security of supply requirement, does not impose anything... This can lead to us not having this gas. And for at least one year, that was the case. And Inčukalns himself began to ensure the purchase of this gas by pumping it, in violation of their market model “design” as this power had invented. Thanks to this, Latvia had gas. And after this occasion, when I managed to prove the risks, this regulation of the claim for Inčukalns, for which there was a three terawatt-hour safety cushion, was changed so that Inčukalns could normally provide Latvia with gas for heating during the winter season. But why do I tell you the whole story if we're talking about gas now? What do I want to say? Even in this situation, to these external circumstances, if this speculative market model had not been designed specifically for a trader, in order to make it easier for him to speculate here, enter the market and earn what he has done excellently, then that would be a very different situation for us, even in the current unpleasant external conditions. And I'll prove it with the facts. So if you ask where the highest prices are... for heating companies, everyone will, of course, say that for those who use gas. And indeed, for those who use gas, these prices... We'll find them, they'll be among the highest. But do you know which are the three lowest heat tariffs... to which heat plants? Top three: these are “Ķekava Houses” - EUR 39,6 per megawatthour (they are heat tariffs on 11 January 2022 - according to the SPRK tariff map)... Thus the lowest heat tariffs: “Ķekavas namai” - 39,64 euros, Olaine - 41,69 euros, Aizkraukle - 43,55 euros per megawatt hour. And you know what? They all use gas. And here's the moment of truth - it's the moment of truth, how much we can see the cost of this power failure, incompetentness, perseverance. That is, if this market model had been designed correctly, even with what was happening globally with gas supplies, with gas prices, we would have had the opportunity to provide ourselves with a gas resource that would be much cheaper. The tariffs for all these heat plants are well below the compensatory amount that will have to be compensated - below EUR 68 per megawatt-hour. That is what I am trying to point out: the irresponsibility, failure and incompetentness of this power have cost them the millions that we will now take from taxpayers. Chris Caryn, you who said you didn't have to keep entrepreneurs! Entrepreneurs now maintain your irresponsibility and your... I'm sorry, I guess the word stupidity wouldn't be right to use...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2353-U17	I am sorry, I remind you that there is a sitting of the Saeima, and I ask you to choose the formal communication style and to maintain politeness. The name of Member Regina Lochmele for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2353-U18	Thank you. The second part of my speech will be devoted to mathematics and figures. So, again. The cost of increasing this heating season is one billion EUR 200 million. From this amount, the state will compensate Latvian citizens – both households and businesses – for 37.5 percent. That is exactly EUR 450 million. I would remind you once again - EUR 450 million from the state budget - that is just the price of this heating season, not to mention that in 2022 there will also be autumn and a new heating season will begin. No speech, no assumption of what this government, which will... whether any government will be here in the beginning of the autumn before the elections, which will then be because already now... and yesterday, I repeat, at the sub-committee meeting on housing, experts expressed their views on the fact that prices would not fall. Even more - already currently the chips prices go up. Entrepreneurs break contracts with municipalities for the delivery of chips. This energy crisis will be one that will not be able to stop during one heating season. During one heating season you will only be able to silence a little the dissatisfied voices of citizens and businessmen who say that these prices are not tolerated. So what to do is, of course, absolutely exceptional, and this must be dealt with immediately. It is also about the medium referred to by the State Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Yesterday, too, opinions from members of a very competent energy association were expressed about the fact that, in this case, the median was set, it could be said, politically rather than economically balanced, that only the years for which it was profitable to take to determine this median were taken. In our country, no one has yet defined what energy poverty is. Could not close temporary folder: %s a medium-setting formula, which only indicates that we were not prepared for this energy crisis, we are not prepared for the continuation of this crisis. On this draft law, I ask everyone to support it, because I underlined it again! - help to Latvian citizens and entrepreneurs is needed immediately, regardless of how incomplete this offer is from the government, how contentious the solutions are. People need some solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2353-U19	Name to Member Ivars Zarins for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2353-U20	It is not very clear to me why my speech was interrupted, because what I said was that I proved everything with the facts. I have the right to make these statements, even more so if they are justified. And I repeat it again, and I can prove with fact that this power acts irresponsibly, incompetently and indecently... and also insane, as I proved to be with this OIC, when all the power parties with their lips talked about how they would fight against the OIC. Instead, it is now covered - and it is covered not simply, but already in breach of a law that has never been done. What we're going to pay millions of them for now! Just the same as this gas story. I can see, with the facts, what is happening at the moment, when, in fact, what we will have to pay for the en-millions is the decisions taken by the Latvian Government, the Ministry of Economics, wrong decisions... and what the coalition of power and, I am sorry, you, Mrs Mūrniece, voted in favour of such a gas market model, even though I can see that I have demonstrated to you that there will be risks. Now they're here. Everything that I warned about is currently happening and we will have to pay for it. Those people pay for what... Taxpayers. These are the enti million, and then someone will have to give them back, because this is the money borrowed. Unfortunately, this is the money that has been borrowed. This government is just champions. During the war government, government debt will grow, as it looks, to some seven billion. It's just dramatic, nothing like that has ever been. And all this is done so that you can buy voters' voices regardless of any money, no matter what the price. What happens afterwards doesn't bother anyone. Can it be described in a different way than irresponsibleness, permissiveness, incompetentness, and also indecentness? Therefore, Mrs Mūrniece, I call on you next time you wish to stop speaking, but think - you also have to follow the roll of order of the Saeima... Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2353-U21	I closed the debate. Thank you. Mr Zariņš, it is unacceptable for the Head of the sitting to make a statement. I call on you to respect the code of ethics of the Saeima Member and could point to Article 16 of the Saeima Member's Code of Conduct: "The Member is polite to the staff of the Saeima, other national and local authorities and every member of society." Article 17... but also, in general, the fact that a Member has the right to express his or her views in a sharp manner, is also right to express his or her conviction in a form that may be sharp, but calls for respect for the limits of politeness. Your speech was interrupted because there was no formal communication... In fact, there was a gross violation of formal communication and the limits of politeness. On behalf of the commission responsible, Member Ilze Indricksone.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2353-U22	I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading, as was the support of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2353-U23	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on measures to reduce exceptional increases in energy prices! Please, let's vote! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2353-U24	The deadline for the submission of proposals was set by the Commission for 30 minutes and for the examination - today in the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2353-U25	Please enable the procedure section. Are there other proposals setting a deadline for the submission of proposals? The name of the Member, Ilze Indrickson.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2353-U26	Since there was enough time in the past to prepare proposals, the proposal is to set 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2353-U27	So there is the deadline set by the Commission for the submission of proposals - 30 minutes and the deadline proposed by the Member, Indicice, for the proposals - 15 minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, so we will be voting in favour of the proposal by Member Ilze Indicicene to set a deadline of 15 minutes for the submission of proposals. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the deadline for submitting proposals to the draft law on measures to reduce exceptional increases in energy prices - 15 minutes! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The deadline for submitting proposals - 15 minutes - has been welcomed. Consequently, the deadline for submitting proposals - 27 January this year at 17.15, consideration at the sitting of the Saeima - 27 January this year. On the agenda, under the heading ‘Conclusion of the election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust’. Draft decision on the election of Ivars Āboliņš as a member of the National Electronic Media Council. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2353-U28	Hello, Madam President of the Saeima. Hello, fellow Members! We consider draft decision No. 832/Lm13 - ‘On election of Ivars Āboliņš as a member of the National Council for Electronic Media’. In view of the expiry of its mandate this year, on 1 February, of four of the five members of the National Electronic Media Council to date, the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs announced on 24 November 2021 a call for possible candidates for discussion for the members of the National Electronic Media Council. 10 candidates were nominated for the post of members of the National Electronic Media Council. The Commission invited associations and foundations active in the fields of media, education, culture, science and human rights and other stakeholders to comment on the applications for vacant posts of the members of the National Electronic Media Council. After hearing the submitted comments, evaluating the information of the responsible authorities on compliance with the requirements of the law and hearing the vision of each candidate about his role in the composition of the council and the development of the activities of the council, the Human Rights and Public Affairs Commission, voting in open session of 25 January this year, decided to nominate Ivars Āboliņš, Aurelia Ieva Druvietis, Ilva Milzarāja and Andis Plakana as members of the National Electronic Media Council. I now call on the Commission to support the election of Ivars Āboliņš as a member of the National Electronic Media Council.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2353-U29	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Ivars Āboliņš as a member of the National Electronic Media Council! Please, let's vote! - 67, against - 17, refrains - not. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of Aurelia Ieva Druviete as a member of the National Council for Electronic Media. Member Artus Kaimiņš on behalf of the commission responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2353-U30	See draft decision No. 833 Lm13 - “On the election of Aurelia Ieva Druviete as a member of the National Council for Electronic Media”. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the election of Aurelia Ieva Druviete as a member of the National Council for Electronic Media. I would like to add that the committee voted unanimously.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2353-U31	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Aurelia Ieva Druviete as a member of the National Electronic Media Council! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Decision adopted. The draft decision ‘On the election of Ilva Milzaraja as a member of the National Electronic Media Council’. Member Artus Kaimiņš on behalf of the commission responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2353-U32	See draft decision No. 834/Lm13 - “On the election of Ilva Milzaraja as a member of the National Council for Electronic Media”. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this candidacy and for Ilva Milzaraja to be elected as a member of the National Council for Electronic Media. I would like to add that a majority of the votes cast led this candidate to be approved by the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2353-U33	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Ilva Milzaraja as a member of the National Electronic Media Council! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 74, it's against - 10, it's not. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of Anda Plakana as a member of the National Electronic Media Council. Member Artus Kaimiņš on behalf of the commission responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2353-U34	And the last draft decision in this phase is the draft decision No. 835/Lm13 - “On election of Anda Plakana as a member of the National Council for Electronic Media”. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the election of Anda Plakana as a member of the National Council for Electronic Media. By a majority vote of the panel, the candidate received support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2353-U35	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2353-U36	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Dear Chairman of the Commission, Mr. Neminis! Indeed, it is this vote and the participation of this gentleman, whom you mentioned, in this competition shows that there has actually been no competition here once again and, in fact, the whole system of selecting candidates is one big fiction, because it is not that this application is being organised. This application is organised only for the purpose of obtaining time, place for the political market, which, by its very nature, has happened here. And we must be honest that everything that you mentioned at the beginning does not really have any value, because it is the approval and nomination of this gentleman here, as we - and not just us, I think, also a number of experts in this field - that we have pointed out that Mr Plakan may not have the best knowledge... He already has some knowledge in this area, but surely he is not the best of the candidates who had applied for this open procedure that you mentioned. And ever since, I remember, there were still such leaves of Mrs Elerte - who, as it is to be voted on, who, agreed (it was called upon at the time) - all these further processes have always been criticised. I am now addressing, among other things, the Political Party for Development/Par! where a number of Members place particular emphasis on openness, transparency and so on all these principles. Then this is the case where we wish four candidates, and let us be honest, there is no need to be particularly genius in political science to tell which political power is behind each of these candidates and that these four candidates are nothing more than a mutual agreement between four political parties, coalition parties. And there has not been any idea here at any time... Perhaps someone has had some dreamy idea, but we see this result, which shows that there has not been any idea here to find the best, there is simply a political agreement here. And, most importantly, we are seeing that a person who has started from a particular political party, a coalition political party is being turned into a member of the National Electronic Media Council and seems acceptable to everyone. Colleagues, perhaps it is also acceptable, but it would certainly not be acceptable for those political forces who have come with these postulates of openness and transparency, who have condemned it and are currently taking part in this arrangement, and the sad thing is that someone is still trying to tell someone that there is a competition, openness, and has called everyone to submit... In essence, at the end of the day, it is already making such a disgust about these organisations and all those people who took this process seriously at some point. In fact, this process was just one big fiction, and it is this particular man who gives it the greatest assurance that it has been one big fiction. Mr. Plato must be... And he's also a specialist in some areas... And now, too, the information that has come to us in the parliamentary group that is a whole organization that is even very interested in getting this person to this particular position is in no way public and does not multiply the belief that this person will be the one who will carry out his duties in the most honest way when he takes up that position. We in the Group have been constantly aware of this process taking place in the Commission, and at some point it could really be called transparent, but it was precisely the final stage that was why I was speaking here today with such a speech. And I'm absolutely sure that has happened. The first stage was that which, in principle, led all of their good work with these selection rounds to a poor political market, for which many have taken up the 'no', but are now taking part in it themselves. So, colleagues, maybe look at yourself in the mirror before you criticise others. I call for this candidate not to be supported, and our group will not support him either. However, I call on you to consider and choose the competent candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2353-U37	Thank you. The name to Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2353-U38	Dear President, Yes, indeed, by carrying out an absolutely basic manipulation on the Internet, we see that this candidate has been a candidate for a particular political party for the Member's office, and that of course should follow a period of "reclamation" that we have talked a great deal about in various respects during the election of the various officials. We are currently talking about the National Electronic Media Council, which is a very important institution. It is very important that this institution is not politicized in any way, and a man who has previously preached pre-election programs of a party, various slogans... Praise cannot be really objective, very quickly from this party, say by far away. Therefore, of course, there are possibilities to choose highly competent people according to the competition procedure, and we certainly have them in Latvia. So nothing crazy will happen if the council works in part right now, but we, the Saeima, as legislator... Like a decision-making power... Let us now, however, decide not to support this candidate and look at the broader range of candidates, thus respecting the principles of corporate governance, which is very important if we are talking about openness and non-politicality. I therefore call on my fellow Members not to support this candidate. Not because a bad person, but because the cooling period is necessary for such a very important council, which then monitors the media. In this case, I also join in what was mentioned earlier by my colleague Viktor Valainis - this is not a story of any sympathy or empathy - this is about cutting the political market at the root and choosing the most competent person. We have time and opportunities. Nothing crazy will happen if the council does a little without a fifth member and we choose it in a wider competition and make sure that a person is not politically engaged or perhaps with some sort of sympathy from any of the political forces... It is in this very, very important National Electronic Media Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2353-U39	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2353-U40	Yes, in response to what both speakers said, we talked in the Commission about how to really do so, so that both the SEPLP law and the NEPLP law - both - would be on the same level and in the same line, where it was said that the SEPLP is three members, but the NEPLP is five members. Do the NEPT really need five members? Where was... The period of the SAP shall be four years and the period of the NEEAP shall be five years. There is also a significant difference as regards the term of ‘political cooling’, which is contained in the SEPPP Act, but is not in the NEPPP Act. As the deadline for these members of the Board expires on 1 March this year, the Commission decided not to open the NAP law in order to make a number of changes (also referred to here by me) for one reason. Dear Members, this is a year of pre-election, and at this time we will wait if we open this law... if we had opened it, we would not wait for any advice, no elections to this council. The work of the NEPLP would have been paralyzed, now Ieva Kalderauskas would have been there, and we wouldn't have done it because it would have been like a horn of abundance... from you a variety of proposals that would simply paralyse the NEPLP law itself. Consequently, as a result of the compromise, we came to the conclusion that we cannot open the NAP law and accept five... A total of five members of the Council shall be members of the NEPTP. Once again, by a majority, Mr Plakan is delegated for election to the National Electronic Media Council. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2353-U41	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Anda Plakana as a member of the National Electronic Media Council! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Congratulations to all elected members of the National Electronic Media Council. The order of business - under the heading "Preview of draft decisions". Draft decision “On Parliamentary Investigation Commission of the Saeima to investigate the wrong actions of the Latvian government in the Covid-19 pandemic management process, as well as to name the names of political officials who have irreversibly negative consequences for Latvia’s extension of duration”. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. ( Pause) So... I am sorry, there is also the rapporteur for this draft decision. On behalf of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry, Member Rihards Kozlovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2353-U42	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, At its meeting on 25 January, the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry decided unanimously, with all Members voting in favour, to request the Saeima to extend its mandate by one week, i.e. until 4 February of this year. Therefore, I ask the Saeima to support the draft decision prepared by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2353-U43	Thank you. Now we are starting a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2353-U44	Yes, I also, my fellow Members, call for support for this decision to be extended. And there are several reasons for that. Last November, I addressed to the Commission - as you know, this Commission is assessing the transactions carried out in the context of the Community pandemic, all these various procurements - for one specific procurement episode, when nearly one million respiratory units were bought from the advertising agency and then it turned out to be invalid. At the same time, as you remember, I did my investigation... Within the framework of the request procedure, by carrying out a number of requests within a year, collecting information demonstrating that it would be reasonable to further investigate the transaction, in particular... giving rise to reasonable doubts as to the validity of this purchase volume, the reasonableness of the price, the reasonableness of the choice made by the supplier, the reasonableness of the manner in which this product was accepted. Even then, it was obvious that there was something wrong. Later on, this was also confirmed by the fact that these respirators did not really work, so the documents showing that they were in order were actually counterfeit. I appeal to Mr Kozlovsky about these revealed facts, with specific questions that this investigative commission could clarify the truth - there has been or may not have been, perhaps, a criminal offence, perhaps not just an aphoric, but even a criminal offence involving political persons or officials. That was last November. I have still not received any answers from Mr Kozlovska, and perhaps he needs this extension of the panel so that he can prepare this response and answer these questions. Another point I pointed out in this submission in November was that I called for these facts to be presented to both the Prosecutor General's Office and the Financial Intelligence Service. Why also the Financial Intelligence Service? The way in which this transaction has taken place suggests, perhaps, that there may be criminal activities also in connection with money laundering, because this transaction was entrusted with the execution not only of a company that has nothing to do with the purchase of medical goods, so the advertising agency, but these volumes of the company's business were, in my opinion, hundreds of times smaller than the one specific transaction that it was entrusted with for some reason. How could this be done? Then (which is suspicious), when it turned out that these respirators were invalid, the officials responsible did not turn to this company with a claim, rather than exercising the rights granted by law, but, on the contrary, offered them an opportunity to exchange this... so not to recover these losses, but to exchange these respirators at their old price, abnormally high price... to exchange simple respiratory techniques against other respiratory equipment. And didn't deal with this company with any claims, but was waiting for this company to pay dividends from this transaction... Thus, the profits it had made in order for it to be able to pay out dividends. And here... if Mr Kozlovsky had turned to the Financial Intelligence Service (we do not know this, I would like him to apply for a debate and tell him whether he has done so - whether he has turned to these facts in the Prosecutor General's Office and whether he has turned to these facts in the Financial Investigation Service - the Financial Investigation Service could track this cash flow and either dispel or confirm our concern that this transaction has not been carried out as a criminal scheme involving officials, perhaps also political officials, who are covering this transaction. I would like to call on Rihard Kozlovskis to apply now to the debate and either confirm or deny that he has done so. What steps he has taken following my application, in which I pointed to these facts which obviously, if he carries out his work as chairman of an investigative commission in good faith... Should he have checked these facts? Thank you. I see you have applied for a debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2353-U45	Name to Member Rihard Kozlovski.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2353-U46	Dear colleagues, It is absolutely clear that this information, which Mr Zarins mentioned, has been received by the Commission and has also been passed on to all the members of the Commission. Talking about the size of the commission and... the series of questions to be dealt with directly by the Commission - that is the agreement between the members of the Commission, and I would also like to point out that this mandate, which was given from Parliament and was very broad, and that, accordingly, the series of questions we have assessed, was sounded with all the members of the Commission, but... Yes, in this case, in my own name and as the head of the commission, I can certainly say that we will respond to Mr Zarins and, clearly, we will also send all the materials to the appropriate authorities if necessary.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2353-U47	Name to Member Ivars Zarins for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2353-U48	Yes, I would, however, like to clarify here - this application has been sent to you in November. Now we have what? January. So let us not even say that there are procedures, it is also a law that states that you should give an answer, not just to a Member, but to any person within a month. It's been more than a month, you haven't answered anything. So I would like to point that out. You have also not answered my question now. So I sent you more than a month ago, last November, these facts. Have you submitted these facts to the Prosecutor General's Office and the Financial Intelligence Service? The fact that you will do it sometime (when your job is already over) then it will just be such a formal... We will in principle be able to say that you are carrying out actions that can be considered to cover up this possible crime. So I have a question: when you received an application in November, did you respond to these facts, send them to the Prosecutor General's Office, the Financial Intelligence Service or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2353-U49	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2353-U50	On behalf of the Commission, I can only say about the question that we were looking at at at the committee meeting, and it was a request for an extension... Therefore, bearing in mind that all the members of the Commission unanimously supported this request, I ask that the Commission be extended and that it be supported in this draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2353-U51	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On Parliamentary Investigation Commission of the Saeima to investigate the wrong actions of the Latvian government in the Covid-19 pandemic management process, as well as name the names of those political officials who have irreversibly negative consequences for Latvia’s extension of duration”! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda of the sitting has been examined. I must inform you of the questions put by Members. Members Zarins, Clementyevs, Agešins, Tutins and Rubiks have asked Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš about the economic feasibility of the solutions proposed by your government for overcoming the energy crisis. The question is referred to the Prime Minister. Members Sprūde, Možvillo, Švecova, Nemiro, Petraviča and Stepanenko have submitted a question to the Minister for Health Daniel Pavlutas “On data on testing, infection, death and vaccination of SARS-CoV-2 (COLID-19). The question shall be referred to the Minister for Health. Dear colleagues, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is going to work with the draft law “Law on measures to reduce exceptional increases in energy prices”. The preliminary working hours of the Commission are about an hour, as the chairman of the Commission predicts. I invite you to wait for text messages on your mobile phones for the next sittings of the Saeima and for the next session of the Saeima. There's also a record of Members. Registration is over. So, honourable colleagues, today is provisionally - that is, of course, depending on the duration of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission's meeting... provisionally we will continue the work of the Saeima in about an hour, but you will be informed of the exact sitting time with text messages on your mobile phones. As a result, I closed the second remote emergency sitting of the Saeima on January 27, 2022.
