ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U1	Dear colleagues, Please take your seats. Good morning! We started the sitting of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 21 April 2022. Changes to the agenda of the sitting The following amendments were submitted to the agenda of the sitting adopted by the Saeima Bureau: In taking on and acting in this capacity, he has therefore actively supported actions and policies which undermine the territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of Ukraine, and further Are Members opposed to the examination of this draft law, to inclusion on the agenda of the Saeima sitting? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. There are Members Juris Pūce, Mārtiņš Šteina, Viesturs Liepkalna, Daces Rukšāne-Ščipčinskas and Gata Zamars’ submissions on the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on National Defence Financing” following reports by the Saeima Presidium on draft laws submitted. Are Members against this proposal, against these changes to the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. And the draft law “Amendments to the Energy Act” presented by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Are Members opposed to its inclusion on the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. We are starting to look at the amended agenda. The Presidium of the Saeima informs that the Foreign Affairs Commission has submitted a draft decision on aggression and war crimes of the Russian Federation in Ukraine, as an own-initiative proposal. Are Members opposed to examining this own-initiative proposal - the draft decision - at this sitting? There is no objection. We are starting to examine this own-initiative proposal. The Saeima Bureau reports that the Foreign Affairs Commission has provided additional explanations. The Foreign Affairs Commission asks for consideration of the draft decision on aggression and war crimes of the Russian Federation in Ukraine before paragraph 2 of the agenda, if the Saeima has not raised objections to the examination of the respective own-initiative proposal at its meeting on 21 April, pursuant to Article 117 of the parliamentary roll. Are there any objections? There is no objection. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U2	Madam President, I am very respectful of the Speaker of the Saeima sitting. Mr. High Minister. We see the draft communication from the Saeima prepared by the Foreign Affairs Commission - draft decision on aggression and war crimes of the Russian Federation in Ukraine. The 57th day of the comprehensive military attack against Ukraine launched by Russia. The Russian armed forces, unable to occupy important cities, shot them with heavy artillery, missiles, cluster bombs and thermobar charges prohibited by the Geneva Convention. The attacks also target hospitals, schools, residential homes, maternity homes, theatres and other civil objects. The most vulnerable parts of society - women, children - are being attacked. When Ukraine frees areas north of Kyiv, more and more shocking photos and video evidences are revealed, as the weeks spent under the conditions of Russian occupation have become the peaceful suburbs of Ukraine's once peaceful cities into a huge field of murder and murder. The streets have scattered bodies, many of them have tied their hands. Killed with a shot in the back. The victims are buried in mass graves or packed in cellars. Roads are filled with burnt cars and burnt human remains. According to the Office of the SRSG on Children and Armed Conflict, he was responsible for recruitment and use of children in Ukraine. The Russian army has targeted civilians through non-selective artillery and air bombing campaigns, which have turned whole cities into ruins and killed thousands of people. Those who survived after the attack are threatened with forced deportation to the Russian Far East and an uncertain future in exile. Meanwhile, reports of sexual violence and torture in occupied parts of Ukraine have become a depressing everyday phenomenon. We are witnesses of what has been achieved over the years by the perseverance of the Kremlin's propaganda, apologies, and zombies. The warning given by Voltaire at the time was confirmed that those who can believe in absurdity can also make them swear. These are not isolated cases or accidental acts of cruelty; on the contrary, they reveal the genocide underlying this war initiated by Russia. Things must be called on in the right words, especially when it comes to the most serious crimes that we have ever codified. That is why the Foreign Affairs Commission of the Saeima adopted last week... supported this draft communication unanimously and I call on the Saeima to assess this draft communication in the same way. There is extensive evidence and evidence of the mass brutal crimes committed by Russia. At the same time, the Kremlin is trying to deny them, to present them as provocation and screening of Ukrainian radical forces. The parallels with the crimes of Soviet occupation power against its occupied lands and people are also horrifying. Today, the Russian Federation abducted Ukrainian citizens in order to deport them to remote areas of Russia in the Far East. According to UN envoy in Ukraine, already more than 500 thousand Ukrainians - half a million! - Deported to Russia; among them 121,000 are children. The Russian army has purposefully caused a humanitarian disaster in Mariupol and elsewhere, preventing civilians from leaving the city or killing them during their flight, destroying urban infrastructure, warehouses with grain and food supplies, and blocking food, medicines and water supplies, resulting in thousands of Ukrainians dying of hunger, thirst or Russian weapons. So far, we have seen Russia primarily as a country's violation - an aggression war - in Parliament, but, in addition to the state's responsibility, international criminal law includes the responsibility of individuals for international crimes. This category of major crimes includes genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes and aggression. What Russia is currently doing in Ukraine is genocide. It's a genocide known in the bones - our historical DNA. It is the same genocide as the Soviet regime against the Latvian nation. Russia must be brought to justice as an aggressor, and although war crimes, genocide and crimes against humanity are not out of date, it is vital that evidence is already collected and documented in order to strengthen the principle of the inevitability of punishment. All this is expressed in this parliamentary statement, as well as giving a clear mandate to our representatives in international organisations to act and a clear position on the urgent need to reform the UN. Although UN Secretary-General Antonio Guteresh has declared that war in Ukraine is one of the greatest challenges for world peace since the establishment of the UN after the Second World War, the organisation itself has a weak capacity to act. This is because, to a large extent, the rules are dictated by the aggressor himself - Russia, because it is vetoed by the right of veto when it is on the UN Security Council. The situation is like a farce... absurd and seriously discredit the values and principles enshrined in the UN and its foundations. And while talking about Russia's legal responsibility is important, we must also not forget the main current priority of protecting the Ukrainian population from further crimes against humanity and helping Ukraine to free its land from the occupations. This can only be achieved if the supply of arms to Ukraine is urgently and sharply expanded and the European Union immediately ceases its imports of fossil fuels from Russia. Today, such an action - such imports - is in fact equivalent to trade with Nazi Germany after Hitler's forces invaded neighbouring countries. Continued financing of the Russian military machine is morally unjustified and strategic short-sighted. Rejection will require considerable political courage from Western leaders. For months there has been a delay with arms deliveries to Ukraine, fearing to provoke Putin, but in the face of increased Russian atrocities, this caution is no longer an excuse or justification... and it does not justify allowing the expansion of genocide in the very heart of Europe - Ukraine. Latvia and its society have shown their unwavering loyalty and solidarity to Ukraine and its people. Let us continue to do so by supporting this draft communication from the Saeima. Colleagues! I will read the draft Saeima statement prepared by the Foreign Affairs Commission. ‘ The statement by the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia ‘On aggression and war crimes in Ukraine’, the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia, based on extensive evidence and evidence of the mass brutal crimes committed by the Russian Federation's army - killings, torture, sexual violence and rape of Ukrainian civilians, including women and children, in Buchi, Iran, Mariupol and elsewhere; condemning the efforts of the authorities of the Russian Federation to deny the crimes committed by the Russian armed forces in Ukraine, by falsely teaching these crimes as provocation or instigation of Ukrainian radical forces; noting that, since the beginning of the military invasion of the Russian Federation, ten million Ukrainians have been forced to leave their homes and more than four million came to their country; commemorating all the victims of the Russian Federation's aggression in Ukraine - thousands of civilians and Ukrainians; honouring the security and heroity of Ukrainian defence forces and citizens; finding that, since the Russian Federation's military attack in Ukraine, when Russian troops bombled their bombs bombings against the police forces, including the opposition to the opposition against the opposition against the opposition against the opposition, including the police and the police, the police, and the police, including the police, the police, the police, the police, the police, and the police, and the anti-treatment of the anti-treatment of the anti-treatment of the anti-treatment of the anti-treatment of the police, anti-pro-treatment, anti-pro-treatment, and anti-treatment of anti-treatment, anti-treatment, and anti-treatment of anti-treatment of anti-treatmentsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss against against anti''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''' Recalling that in Ukraine, already in 1932-1933, when the policies planned and implemented by the Soviet Union resulted in the confiscation of cereals and food, an artificial famine was caused by a Holodomor, which killed a fifth of the Ukrainian population and was recognised by Latvia as a deliberate implementation of genocide by the Stalinist regime against the Ukrainian people; emphasising that Latvia, as a member of the UN, the Council of Europe, the European Union and NATO, defending democratic values, does not accept the actions of the Russian Federation in carrying out the mass destruction of the Ukrainian population; consistently respecting its obligation to recognise, prevent and mention these crimes in order to ensure their non-repeat, evaluates the international criminal investigation into war crimes committed by Ukraine, as well as the maintenance of ethnic equality, cultural values and traditions; emphasising that Latvia condemns all crimes against humanity and genocide, and is aware of its obligation to recognise, prevent and mention of these crimes against the civilianity of the United Nations, the European Union and the United Nations, the European Union and the European Union and NATO, as a Member of the European Union and NATO, and its Member States, which are committed to the maintenance of the anti-balsup of the anti-lawsup of acts against the anti-a and the anti-treatment of anti-sup of acts of acts against the anti-a and the anti-supupupupupupup against the anti-treatments against the anti-treatments against the anti-treatments and the anti-treatments against the antissss against, and against the antiss against the antis against the antisssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss against against against against against against against against against against against antisssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss against against against against against against against against antissss and againstssss againsts againsts againsts againsts againsts ofs againsts againsts againsts and againsts's's and againsts againsts againsts againsts againsts againsts againsts againsts againsts againsts againsts's's and againsts againsts's's and againsts againsts of , which is in contradiction with Russia's commitments under Article 2 of the Charter of the United Nations and its imperial rules of international law, as well as the commitments made by Russia through the signing of the Budapest Memorandum and its commitment to guarantee the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine; calls on the Euro-Atlantic Community and its partners to urgently impose comprehensive sanctions against the Russian Federation in order to stop the Russian army from continuing its military aggression in Ukraine; calls on the Member States of the European Union to immediately stop imports of Russian oil and gas; supports democratic states in their efforts to combine efforts to collect and investigate evidence of war crimes committed by the Russian Federation throughout the territory of Ukraine; condemns the Russian Federation's abuse of veto rights in the United Nations Security Council and calls for the implementation of UN reforms; expresses solidarity with Ukraine and the Ukrainian people.’ Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U3	Thank you, Mr. Cole. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Ritvar Janson. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U4	Hello, chair of the sitting! Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Every year, on 25 March and 14 June, we have the commemoration days of the victims of the Communist genocide recognised by law, and on the first Sunday of December - the commemoration day of the victims of the totalitarian Communist regime against the Latvian people. It is understandable that a nation which, as a result of the various repressions of totalitarian regimes and colonial migration policies conducted by the USSR in 1989, had left only 52 per cent of its population in its land, is known as a genocide. It is understandable that citizens of our country who suffered as a result of the Second World War in genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes are well aware of the citizens of another country who are destroyed by the aggressor. It is also very well felt by the younger generations of the people, even though their crimes were not or were in a milder form. In Ukraine today we see what the legal predecessor of Russia in Latvia carried out in 1944, 1945 in the USSR: the shooting of civilians without a court decision, arrests, deportations by sending to Siberia, military figures by rape, robbery, theft, grabbing of property, the meaningless obscuration of Rezekne, the victims of which were civilians as well. All of this is currently being done by Russia in Ukraine. Compared to the last year of the Second World War in Latvia, unfortunately, it is much more systematic and intensive. Everyone remembers the crimes committed by the USSR in Latvia during the Second World War, qualified as crimes against humanity or war crimes. By putting together systematicness, from the time when Latvians were destroyed in Russia in the late 1930s by the sign “Latvian” to the repression to the acquisition of the full independence of the state of Latvia, it is considered as a genocide. The USSR began genocide in Ukraine in 1932, 1933, leading to artificial hunger and human death. There was deportation from Western Ukraine, the destruction of national partisans. The Ukrainian civilians are also currently, because Russia violates all possible rights of war, are killed, deported, tortured, raped and killed in hunger. Children are expelled from the occupied territory to Russia, separated from families with the aim of transiting - this is a typical sign of genocide. Russia continues to commit crimes against Ukrainians and Ukrainian citizens systematically. And it is not important that in Latvia genocide did not happen, and today genocide in Ukraine does not happen only on the basis of all known elements of Moscow, documents. Firstly, due to Russia's secrecy, these documents may only be seen by future generations. Secondly, it is likely that nothing has changed in Russia's repressive and military orders from the times of the USSR, for example, the deportation of 14 June 1941 in the Baltics took place on the basis of a draft decision, and the deportation of 1945 in Latvia - on the basis of an oral order only. The executions of civilians by the military were carried out without a court order with the orders of the commander. This is likely to be the case in Ukraine at the moment. We do not forget our suffering, so we cannot remain silent about the suffering of others. It is our Parliament's duty to tell the world that Russia is currently carrying out genocide in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U5	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision presented by the Foreign Affairs Commission on aggression and war crimes of the Russian Federation in Ukraine! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, We will continue to see the agenda. The section ‘On draft laws submitted’. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the Member Jūlija Stepanenko, Lubova Švekova, Māra Možvillo, Karina Sprūde and Ramona Petraviča be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption as the committee responsible. ‘ Karina Sprūde, Member, has applied to speak about” Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U6	Good morning, honourable colleagues! Good morning, chair of the sitting! I loved the previous speech and the last words that really touched him - you said that we cannot remain silent when someone is hurt or hurt. I think we must also end today with our local, internal, genocide and stop giving an employer the exclusive right to request a workable certificate. We already understand that the pandemic was over. In a way that ends, I will not comment, but I think that we need to continue our lives, to continue as before - without sorting people and asking for any certificates. We have to put a stop to it. I'm brief: I don't want to talk a lot about what mistakes we are... has done so and how many people have lost their jobs, but I think that the employer should not, however, be given exclusive rights to continue to apply for a certificate to his employees. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U7	One Member has spoken for. Consequently, Members call for a vote. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law tabled by Mr Stepanenko, Ms Schvekova, Mr Možville, Mr Sprūde and Mr Petraviča “Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 32, it's against - 49, it's not. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the member Ulda Augulis, Viktors Valaiņa, Armands Krauze, Edgars Tatars and Gundars Many’s draft law “Amendment to the Law on Conformity Assessment” be referred to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? ( Internouncing call.) Objections (Interpretative statement: 'We shall vote!') )... Are we voting? Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Conformity Assessment” to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy” presented by Member Augulis, Valaiņa, Krauze, Tatars and Many! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 31, against - 48, refraining from - 1. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the member Viktoras Valaiņa, Ulda Augulis, Armands Krauze, Edgars Tatars and Gundars Many's draft laws "Amendments to the law on exceptional increases in energy prices" be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U8	Very respectful Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, This issue, as we did in the past, is not the first time either. We have done so before. With regard to seniors, this draft law provides that the government, the Saeima... a lump sum allowance of EUR 200 should be paid to seniors - precisely those with the lowest pensions - for seniors with disabilities. In our view, despite the fact that, with effect from 1 July, a non-restrictive minimum of EUR 500 will come into effect, it would now be a step in the right direction. However, we have over 100,000 seniors who will not be affected by these changes. This double-digit inflation, which is now the rise in food prices, which is already today, let alone the expected rise in food prices... It is the right direction, but it will not end up saving a situation in which a whole series of our seniors have reached. Colleagues, this invitation to all of us - Members of the Saeima, all political groups, Prime Minister, Minister of Welfare - has already been addressed by the Latvian Pensioners Federation in January. They still have not heard. Colleagues, this government has, unfortunately, over four years, taken with new initiatives, subtracting those that had already been developed by the previous government and the composition of the Saeima of the time, which included Aija Barča, the former head of the Federation of Pensioners... These initiatives are currently under way. Nothing new has come. At the same time, we must all agree that the situation has changed very significantly with regard to inflation. The government has now announced publicly... the steps are absolutely insufficient and this installation of the Pensioners Federation must be implemented. Colleagues, price shock, which was in January, December bills on electricity... All decisions taken subsequently had an impact on current invoices, but did not affect those which had accumulated. A number of seniors now... Also, when discussing with the Pensioners Federation, we are told that these debts have not yet disappeared. Food prices are rising. Access to medicines is also difficult, the cost of health services has increased. At the same time, seniors also have to prepare for the next season, and seniors also have to pay bills, debts that occurred in January, as well as February. These debts exist, they are real, and they have to be paid in some way. ( The drug is noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) Unfortunately, today's government's proposal does not provide any solution to the part of society that is most vulnerable. Unfortunately, we have not heard solutions from the government. We have heard that the Minister for Welfare comes with a similar offer - the cost of EUR 200. Unfortunately, the government was unable to find a solution. The question here is whether you do not want to or do not really know how to find these funds. In our view, these are much needed at the moment and we call for support for the referral of the draft law to the Commission. Then maybe... if the Minister cannot himself, the honourable Conservatives, then maybe we can all help together. ( Milestones.) All of us may be able to help him together, otherwise he is alone in his mind, unfortunately. Unfortunately, that is the case. We only see press releases, but we do not see real action. The real thing about this is that seniors now need this one-off allowance. The indexing of pensions will not help. All these payments of EUR 20 - they will have come to an end right now; and no other solution is offered by the government. Colleagues, we must take care of the most vulnerable part of Latvia's population. And they are seniors who are supported by this bill. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U9	Do Members have objections? ( The paragraphs are: ‘ Yes.’) ; “Let’s vote!” ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Exceptional Increase in Energy Prices” presented by Members Valaiņa, Plant, Krauze, Tatars and many! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 36, against - 48, refraining from - 1. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Support of the Civil People of Ukraine” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? And the objections? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the draft law on "Amendments to the Energy Law" presented by the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Financing of National Defence”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U10	Madam President, Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, Resurrection! We are working on the draft law “Amendments to the State Defence Financing Act”. At the moment, there is a situation where public defence funding is foreseen in the law for two per cent of gross domestic product, but we, as the legislator, say... The government, as the proposer, is now proposing to increase this funding to two and a half percentage points already in 2025. As you, fellow Members, you know, it is about the geopolitical situation or the war in Ukraine, or the tensions in our region; and we need to improve its capacities, if we could say so, or what we do with our own protection of the air, with our own protection of the sea. In order to do all this, we need money, and in order to get that money, we need to make it very clear and clear that we are prepared to do so - already in 2025 - 2.5 per cent of gross domestic product, in 2023 - 2.25 per cent of gross domestic product and in 2024 - 2.4 per cent of gross domestic product. That is the essence of the amendments to its National Defence Financing Act. Of course, in view of the situation, we supported the urgency of this draft law within the Commission, and we will also ask you to support the urgency of this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U11	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Financing of National Defence” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U12	Thank you, colleagues, for recognising this draft law as an urgent one. I just want to say that the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has also supported this draft law at first reading. No one had any doubt that Latvia needed to increase the budget for defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U13	Thank you for your report. Let's start a debate. Name to the Minister of Defence, Mr Pabrik. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U14	Honourable Members, position, opposition, Mrs Beitneres-Le Gallas! The time has come when war is raging in Europe. Russia has attacked our friendly Ukraine, and there are already the last days of this second month of the war. Russia's attack on Ukraine has taken place completely without any reason simply justifying its imperial ambitions, which our great neighbour has obviously never given up. It changes the whole security situation, both in Europe and in the world. We see, of course, that there are a great many countries that have rushed into helping Ukraine. We see that Russia has turned into a number of aspects with this attack and with its analysis before. Firstly, Russia imagined that it would be able to split Western unity, to divide the European Union, and to divide NATO. It didn't work. On the contrary, this war against Ukraine consolidated many allies and, at the same time, of course showed what is the real supporters of Ukraine and what are perhaps slightly weaker supporters who will think. Secondly, Russia also made a mistake in looking at the situation in the Baltic Sea region and Northern Europe, because if we heard in New Year's speech in Finland that both the President and the Prime Minister at the same time remind Russia that nobody other than Finland will decide whether or not to join NATO, then it also means a lot, because we know that after the Winter War, after the Second World War, Finland's position has usually been very reserved for everything that happens in the big neighbourhood. At the moment, this guide in Finland and, I have to say, Sweden has also broken. I can safely predict, like many of you who follow international relations, that in the near future both of these countries will be asking them to be admitted to the transatlantic alliance. This will, of course, change the situation in the Baltic Sea region, also with us, because we will have new opportunities to work with both Finland and Sweden in an even more in-depth way and to build additional security in our country. The last weeks have also been very difficult for us here in Latvia, not only with the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian armed forces, with Ukraine's defenders in Kiyiv, Harkiv, and Mariupol, where both the Azov general and Ukrainian border guards and Ukrainian seamen are fighting against the invader on the 57th day, and many, many other volunteers, but also... It has been a difficult time because we have done the maximum to support our friendly Ukraine in its sacred and fair fight against the invaders. We have delivered weapons to Ukrainians. We are able to deliver a large part of its necessity, military necessity, about 10 hours before the beginning of the war. We continued to deliver military assistance to Ukraine after the attack, and we continue to supply and help Ukraine militaryly and humanely, even today and at this time. Latvia is among the leading European countries in providing assistance to Ukraine, obviously in proportion to all our capabilities, what has been given to us, and also in terms of our size and the ability of our armed forces to provide assistance. I wanted to thank the whole society in Latvia for how it provides humanitarian aid, for how funds are donated to Ukraine in this fight, for how Ukrainian refugees are accepted, for how we are providing assistance. And we will have to continue to provide this assistance, because Ukraine is our ally country, although it is not NATO. But I can be sure that this war will end with Ukraine's victory. We will be, and we must be, a country that will support the accession of Ukraine to the European Union as soon as possible. It will also change the geopolitical situation in Europe as a whole and make us both safer and richer. But all of this applies to the future. Today is today's task. And today's challenges are largely dictated by what is happening in Ukraine, and by the attitude that still prevails in Russia. Russia is an authoritarian, totalitarian, perhaps country, a large aggressor country for us. We have to do everything. And I understand with us not only Latvia, but all Western societies, all liberal democratic societies, transatlantic alliance, the European Union. We must do everything to enable Ukraine to win this war, because Ukraine is currently fighting our war for our freedom and our future. If we want to prevent future wars, then Ukraine must win this war. That is the only way to maintain our security. At the same time, we must also understand that we must invest at the maximum speed in the protection of Latvia and in the security of Latvia. Yes, we have done a lot in recent years. Yes, we have already invested more than two percent each year in our protection... for several years in a row from our gross domestic product. That's not a little bit of it. This is more than many other European countries that have no borders with Russia, no borders with Ukraine, have done so. Some of them still live in illusions that reaching a ceasefire or a ceasefire will solve the issue. Here I would also like to tell you what I am saying to all our allies during their meetings. Yes, there is a possibility that Russia, after some success (or perhaps an attack at Donbass on 9 May), which, of course, has to sell at home to Russian leaders as a victory, will come with an offer to cease the fire. And there will be allies in the West, as well, who will say: ‘ How good! We don't shoot at last! Or how good, at last people don't die! Let's start the negotiations." I would like to say that the ceasefire without precondition, where Russia exports its troops at least to the borders of 24 February, is simply a trap for Putin, the Kremlin and Russia for all of us. The ceasefire is not the solution to this war. The only solution to this war is Ukraine's victory. For Ukraine to win, we must also be strong. We must not live in illusions, so that we do not end up in a situation in which we can end up and in which we also ended up in the communion crisis, when suddenly we did not have masks, we did not have vaccines, we had nothing, because we trusted in the global market. We trusted that somewhere in the distance someone would make something, bring it and give it to us. If we end up in a crisis, if, if we don't give a god, we don't break our borders, we don't give a god, war begins, there's a problem with supplies, there's a problem with help. It will take time to get this help. Yes, we are a member of NATO, yes, we can trust our allies. Also on February 24, when many of us in the morning awakened four with the sentence “There’s started war!” ... Four hours later, the soldiers of the United States landed in Latvia with their planes in order to strengthen protection here. But there are countries that cannot offer such planes, there are countries that are not armed, there are countries that do not have to give to Ukraine as well. We also heard from yesterday's visit to Latvia... from the German Foreign Minister, who says: “You know, we can't give anything more at the moment... We don’t have “as if”.” The question, of course, always remains - isn't it really? Is that perhaps a desire to give us what we have? But let it remain on the conscience of the rest. Our conscience is clean, and our task is to ensure the security of Latvia. In this regard, I really call on the Latvian Saeima... and you support the increase in the defence budget of the Latvian army in the next three years to 2.5 percent of gross domestic product. Where do we want to invest them, and why do we need them? We need them because, even if Ukraine wins this war, the threat of aggression on the Russian side will remain in any case. Our task, and what we will also defend at the Madrid Summit in just a month or two, is to make sure that we are not only able to get this aggressor out of the country if it has come to us, but that it is not in our country and not able to stand up here. We therefore need a completely different fire capacity, we need a different type of weapon. You have heard that our main desires - as we do not currently have - are the protection of the air to protect Riga to protect the Latvian sky so that foreign planes cannot fly unpunished here. We have to be shore protection missiles so that no dessert can be laid here on the sandy beaches of Latvia, so that Kurzeme would be safe and no ships would be present near us, but if they would appear to be expected to have the same fate as Moscow. Thirdly, we need a missile artillery with which we can prevent land forces from approaching our borders and say: if you break these borders, we know what to do with you. Of course, we must strengthen the Latvian military industry. In this respect, we must also take an example from countries such as Finland, which has invested a great deal in its military industry, in its production. We have had a number of successes here, including a collective agreement with the Finnish state on the production of the Patria armor, which is a modern armor. For the first time in the history of Latvia we will not only produce road transport, but will produce armoured vehicles - fully in our country from 2023. All this will not stop, we have many other plans: to produce drones, ammunition, missiles and other things that we will need and which we cannot expect from others if the crisis comes. We must be prepared to make ourselves available. And that's not just about the armed forces. This applies to Latvia's economy, development of Latvian regions, as most of these companies will be located in Latvian regions - job creation and export. We are prepared to develop Latvia's state economically, looking at the defence sector as well, and in this context, we plan to set up a commercial company with state involvement, which could directly control and organise military production and military activities, because similar experience from other countries - both in the Nordic countries and elsewhere - has shown that it is through state involvement and state support in the military industry that the necessary effect can be achieved most and most quickly. All this is necessary to prevent war at Latvia's borders. All this is necessary for Russia to know that it will not be able to touch any of its neighbours unpunishedly. This war in Ukraine is a bright proof that we must not sleep on the laurels and, as the Latvian proverb says, the fireplaces must be made in the summer. Summer is approaching, until this summer we have to decide on the increase in the budget, so that Latvian soldiers are safe and that Latvian soldiers can guarantee security for the Latvian people and the Latvian state against any aggressor that is near us. I call on you to support this decision. Thank you all, both for the position and for the opposition, because this is our common thing. It is not a position or a decision of the government, it is our common thing - security of our country, because if there is no state of Latvia, if there is no safe border of Latvia, then all other investments and all other plans will be only dreams. I am counting on your good faith, on your patriotism and, of course, on your support. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U15	I closed the debate. Thank you to the Minister for Defence for taking part in the debate. Mr Bondara, please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U16	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, It's hard to say, isn't it? After this, I can only say that, at first reading, in the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, the draft law "Amendments to the State Defence Financing Act" was unanimously supported, and I hope that you too will support this draft law. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U17	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Financing of National Defence” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U18	Colleagues, colleagues, thank you very much for your support. The deadline for tabling proposals is 15 minutes, and we will see today at second reading... Yes, I hope we will see today at today's sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U19	So the deadline for proposals is 15 minutes, and let us consider this bill at the Saeima sitting today. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present to you the application of the Member of the Bureau Mr Krišjānis Feldman, Mr Jura Pūce, Mr Alda Adamoviča, Ms Līva Kreituse and Ms Linda Medne to examine the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Energy" (No. 1436/Lp13) at first reading immediately after the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Financing of National Defence”. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) None. So we're starting to look at the proposed law. Draft law “Amendments to the Energy Act”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Krišjānis Feldmans. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U20	Dear President, Dear colleagues! The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, taking into account the decision already taken at the Cabinet of Ministers on progress of such a draft law towards the Saeima, for the purpose of saving time the draft law “Amendments to the Energy Law” (No. 1436/Lp13) is led as a draft of its law. The purpose of the draft law is to provide for the establishment of energy security reserves, which will be stored in the underground gas storage site of Inčukalns in order to ensure the continued supply of natural gas. I'll touch a little... why it is necessary. In view of Russia's military invasion in Ukraine and as a result of the international sanctions imposed on Russia, Belarus and their natural persons, the impact of sanctions may jeopardise the parallel work of the Latvian and Baltic energy systems with the Russian energy system and potentially lead to premature disconnection from the so-called BRELL electricity grid before 2025, when the planned synchronization of the Baltic electricity networks with the continental European electricity networks is planned. In such a scenario, the operational stability of the Baltic energy system and the safety of energy systems would be affected. In the case of desynchronisation from BRELL, additional electricity generation at the TEC-2 cogeneration plant would be required, which means that additional natural gas would be needed to produce this electricity. As a result, energy security reserves are available in 2023 at around two terawatt hours, depending on the supply of liquefied natural gas vessels. The acquisition and storage of energy security reserves in Inčukalns underground gas storage will be organised on behalf of the State by Latvenergo joint stock company and will ensure their injection into Inčukalns underground gas storage until 1 January 2023. Accordingly, the joint stock company Latvenergo will purchase energy security reserves from Klaipeda LNG terminal in the fourth quarter of 2022, because Latvia does not have its own terminal. In this context, I call for this draft law to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U21	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on energy law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U22	Thank you. I also call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U23	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on energy law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U24	The Commission primarily wanted to examine this draft law without re-examination by the Commission, but information was received from the Legal Office that, however, it was planned to submit proposals, thus... I also have reservations - as a Member - against the proceedings without re-examination by the committee at second reading. I suggest setting a secondary option for the commission: the deadline for submitting proposals is five minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U25	The deadline for proposals is five minutes. There are no other proposals. And today's Saeima sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U26	The session is scheduled for today's Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U27	Yeah, thank you. So the deadline for proposals - five minutes and a hearing - in the sitting of the Saeima on 21 April. Dear colleagues, On the agenda - reports by the Bureau on own-initiative proposals submitted. Members Ēriks Pucens, Kaspars Ģirgens, Ralfs Nemiro, Ramona Petraviča, Maris Možvillo, Karina Sprūde, Julija Stepanenko, Lubova Švecova, Edgars Tavars and Viktors Valainis have submitted a draft decision “On the task of the Cabinet of Ministers to amend the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers No. 662 "Eliminal security measures to limit the spread of Covid-19 infection", with the same requirements for all professions regarding the need for vaccination and congestion certificates. Are Members against this (Interface: Yes!) ) examination of the own-initiative proposal submitted at this meeting? ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ ) There are objections. Do Members object to the next sitting? ( Interfaces: “Of course! ” “Yes!” ; dep. E. Pucen’s exclamation.) Please, Mr. Pucene, name on behalf of the applicants.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U28	Hello, dear colleagues! We have repeatedly spoken about equality. We are talking about equality in Latvia, we are talking about equality in Ukraine. But we see that equality in Latvia is only in slogans. When we talk about work, about work for every citizen of Latvia, we see that, some time ago, members of the Saeima secretly removed the restriction on compulsory vaccination. But what we have left in the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers - that teachers, doctors, prison officials will still have to be vaccinated. Where then is equality? We see in the media how many teachers are currently missing and how many teachers are missing in the new school year. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “How much?” ) I am calling perhaps on the parliamentary secretary, Mr Riekstins, to climb the platform and tell him why teachers must be vaccinated. Mr. Riekstins, don't shun the grass, but come and defend it, the more maybe you're not learning anything. Therefore, dear colleagues (Dep. S. Riekstin’s intermediate call sign.) I call for support to this draft decision - so that all citizens of Latvia have equal rights to work and who should not leave this work. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U29	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision to be included on the agenda of the Saeima's next sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 31, for - 45, for - 1. The draft decision is not on the agenda for the next sitting. Do Members have proposals to refer the draft decision to one of the commissions? No proposals... Please turn on the microphone for Eric Pucen.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U30	Social and Labour Commission. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U31	We must vote on this proposal. Please call me! We will vote for the referral of the draft decision to the Social and Labour Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 33, against - 43, refraining from - 1. The draft decision is rejected. Dear colleagues, On the agenda - Information from the Saeima Bureau on unpaid leave granted to Aigars Biksis on 7 April this year. We inform it at the Saeima sitting. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Citizenship Law”, second reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U32	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! Eight proposals were received for second reading for this draft law. The major debate in the Commission and the greatest argument on this draft law was who decides whether it is an institution... The Administration of Citizenship and Migration Affairs or a court - about the appeal procedure and whether the decision takes effect immediately and whether or not the contestation suspends enforcement. After all, however, the Commission came to its proposal, in which all of these things were resolved. I will go in turn, tell you briefly about all the proposals, and then we decide accordingly. 1. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It was about adding paragraph 5 to this Section 24(1) of the Citizenship Act. However, unlike the version adopted by the Commission at first reading, this proposal did not include a provision that the decision was taken by the court. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U33	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U34	2. - A proposal from Member Ainars Bauska. Here too, very much, but here it was that... we clarified that the decision is taken by the Office of Citizenship and Migration Affairs, the decision takes effect immediately, and it must be appealed against in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Administrative Procedure Law. This proposal was also not supported by the Commission as it was subsequently supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U35	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U36	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. That provision was also clarified. The Commission was not supported by the establishment of the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U37	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U38	4. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Accordingly, here is a compromise by the Commission, in which, as in all other cases, the Civil and Migration Affairs Authority would take a decision on the withdrawal of citizenship on the basis of information provided by the State Security Authority, while challenging and appealing against the decision does not suspend its activities. The Commission is, of course, in favour of this Commission proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U39	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U40	The next five. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It provides for the process of acquiring or losing citizenship of Latvia and for the registration of news. Partly supported by the Commission, included in the clarification6. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U41	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U42	6. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Also about the registration of information about the process of acquiring or losing citizenship of Latvia, which has just been mentioned. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U43	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U44	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The transitional provisions and the entry into force of Article 26.1 of the draft law on 1 April 2023. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U45	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U46	The last proposal in this bill. 8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The law is foreseen to enter into force on the day following its publication. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U47	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U48	Consequently, all proposals in this draft law have been examined. I call for support to be given to the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U49	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Citizenship" at second, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -62, for -1, for -14. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to law “On meetings, moves and pickets”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U50	Hello, colleagues! The second draft law reviewed and supported by the Legal Commission “Amendments to the Law “On Meetings, Moves and Pickets”” (No. 1418/Lp13) submitted to the Saeima by Members of the Conservative Group in order to bring them into line with the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on the Safety of Public Entertainment and Holiday Events’, approved at the Saeima on 31 March 2022, which prohibits the use of symbols used in public measures to identify military aggression and war crimes, except where there is no purpose to justify or praise these crimes. The Law on the Security of Public Entertainment and Festivals establishes the legal basis for the development of public events, the rights, duties and responsibilities of the organiser of the event as well as other persons involved in the public event in order to ensure public order and security during such event. The Law “On Meetings, Processions and Pickets” establishes conditions for ensuring public order and security, legal bases, organisational duties and rights and duties of persons for organising meetings, moves and pickets. In order to align the norms of the Law on Safety of Public Entertainment and Festivals with the regulation of the Law on Meetings, Processions and Pickets, it is necessary to make appropriate amendments to the Law on Meetings, Moves and Pickets. The aim of the draft law, setting the same limits as in the Law on the Safety of Public Entertainment and Holiday Events regarding the organisation of meetings, moves and pickets, is to protect the democratic state facility and limit such ideological manifestations, which are considered to be a threat to the democratic legal system and security of Latvia. In view of Russia's expansion in Ukraine and implemented totalitarian ideology towards the former republics of the USSR, Latvia has reason to see sufficient real threats to its democratic equipment and security, and in this way Latvia expresses its solidarity towards Ukraine, expressing its position against the aggression implemented by Russia, defends the independence, territorial integrity of the Republic of Latvia and opposes the propaganda of war, violence, the ideology of Nazism and Communism, the occupation of independent territories or parts thereof, and the praising of such facts and processes. Four proposals were received and examined by the Legal Commission for the second reading. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Technically. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U51	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U52	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Technically related to proposal 1. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U53	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U54	3. - the proposal by Member Liva Kreituse. Provision shall be made for a time limit for the entry into force of the law. Commission support included in proposal 4.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U55	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U56	4. - The proposal from Member Artus Neighmina. Provision shall be made for a time limit for the entry into force of the law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U57	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U58	The Legal Commission has supported draft laws at second, final, final reading. I call on my colleagues to support the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U59	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Meetings, Steps and Pickets” in the second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Dear colleagues, the Saeima Bureau has taken an urgent decision on a very long break, because our agenda is the report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Latvia in 2021. The Saeima Bureau proposes that we stop now and resume work at 11 a.m. ( Milestones.) Do Members have objections? ( The box “No! ”) ; “No!” ) There are no objections. In that case, please listen to the statements. Krišjānis Feldmans is asking for a statement of words. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U60	Dear colleagues! So, given that it was not known about the urgent decision of the Saeima Presidium, the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission is convened today at 10.35. See you on the spot, it's time to do what you're supposed to do at 10.35 a.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U61	Name of the notification to Member Juris Rancan. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U62	Colleagues, the Committee on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption is also convened at 10.30 a.m., which we have already been informed about in the chat. Please meet me at 10.30.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U63	The name of the announcement to Martin Bondar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U64	Given the improved predictability of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, we have convened a meeting of the Commission at 10.30 a.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U65	Please call me! Please have Members' presence regime! Name for reading the results of the presence of Members in Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U66	Colleagues! Not registered: Aldis Blumbergs, Jānis Cielēns, Raivis Dzintars, Aldis Gobzems, Ivans Klementjevs, Ieva Krapāne, Armands Krauze, Ainars Latkovskis... Ainars Latkovskis is, Ināra Mūrniece, Ralfs Nemiro... Also, Vitālijs Orlovs, Dace Rukšāne-Šchipčinska... And it's... and Jānis Vucāns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U67	Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U68	Dear Members, Honourable Members! Please all take a seat in the Chamber. We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda, under the heading ‘Reports by the Prime Minister, Ministers and other officials’. A report - Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Latvia 2021 is on the agenda. Name to the Ombudsman of the Republic of Latvia Juris Jansons. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U69	Dear President, Members, Members! Ladies and gentlemen, and of course my excellent colleagues from the Ombudsman's Office! At the beginning of last year, I was assigned to run the Ombudsman’s Office team for the third consecutive term. Much has been done over the past ten years to significantly improve the role and role of human rights in Latvia - not only in Latvia, but also in the international dimension. But there is still much to do. Last year's report includes key events and information on progress in areas such as civil and political rights, social, economic and cultural rights, children's rights, as well as key developments in public information and international cooperation. Last year's report is designed to be understandable for all, for every individual in society, with very many references, a great deal of facts and invoices, and an interactive way in which it can be verified both from a practical point of view, namely from an empirical, from a scientific and from a legal point of view and from a legal point of view, and so on, on which grounds we base our considerations on what is included in the annual report. 2021 has been productive. In parallel to many cases under the supervision of the Office, the daily agenda and tasks of the Bureau specialists were still determined by addressing issues related to the Covid-19 pandemic at almost all levels. I mean that, in fact, the whole of Chapter VIII of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia was an issue on our agenda, but - watching and looking directly through the focus or prism of the co-opandemia. In this context, it is the lack of information of a high quality and easy to understand that has given the public a false impression last year about what human rights are at all, how far they go and whether they can be restricted. The role of human rights in our daily lives is becoming increasingly important. This is what we have seen not only because of the co-restrictions, but also because of the tragic events that we are experiencing in Europe today. Let us continue to work to educate, educate and propose solutions to these problems. A little bit about statistics and the number of years. Overall, 76 percent of the recommendations made in 2021 have been followed or met. For comparison: in 2020 - 82.9 per cent, in 2019 - 89 per cent. Of course, it has its own explanation, a rational explanation of why the implementation of these recommendations has been reduced by a percentage, but this is largely due to the constraints of the government and Parliament with regard to the prevalence of the community and the reduction of the pandemic. A total of 1945 applications were received, most civilly and 987 in the area of political law. We have initiated 65 review cases, most of all in the area of children's rights - 25 review cases. 1523 responses related to applications were provided, with the most socio-economic rights being 639. Of course, this relates to various elements of social security - the right to work, the right to pay, access to health care systems, quality. After receiving 3952 documents, we replied to these documents or sent 3431 documents. 6109 consultations were provided, of which 4331 were telephone consultations and 1778 consultations in e-mail. Most consulted on the provision of information, i.e. information on the identified... on the right to a fair trial, social security, health protection, children's rights, education and the right to work. On the website www.tiesibsargs.lv, 217 news and press releases were published, 181 seminars, discussions, events were held by the Ombudsman. In total, 6717 publications are dedicated to informing the public. Covid-19 pandemic restrictions. The Covid-19 crisis created a division of society and a part of the population - also doubts about the rule of law and democracy in Latvia. The deterioration of the epidemiological situation in the country as a whole and the overload of the health care system in autumn 2021 reflected the consequences of the long-term waiting attitude of the government, avoiding adapting the epidemiological safety measures to the increasing level of threat and the predictions of the epidemiologists. The State is obliged to take immediate action to prevent the threat and to normalise the situation, however, restrictions must be proportionate and must not be applied longer than is objectively necessary. In 2021 the Bureau received 258 written submissions, as well as 596 additional e-mails on Covid-19 issues. In the area of health, citizens have complained most about the country's policy to combat the Covid-19 pandemic, questioning both the quality and effectiveness of the vaccine against Covid-19 and the facial masks, to the argument that the vaccine is harmful to human health. On the issue of the violation of the prohibition of discrimination and possible unjustified differential treatment, citizens have most complained about the Covid-19 pandemic under certain government restrictions in the context of the right to work, education, access to goods and services. Right to social security. A growing number of applications relate to social assistance and services provided by municipalities. Most of the time we have identified unclear communication, the municipality does not explain enough to the client the actions of the municipality or decisions made. Similarly, citizens still complain about underincome for basic needs. Although, starting in 2021, as a result of rulings of the Constitutional Court, the Government significantly increased the minimum income levels, applications are still received from people with the lowest income, that insufficient income still prevents them from receiving a full diet, purchase medicines and necessary goods. As regards the amount of minimum income, I have already indicated in advance that the legislator has failed to comply with the information contained in rulings of the Constitutional Court by entering a certain amount of benefit (pension) without objective justification in the law with a promise to review it at least every three years. I believe that until now none of the judgments of the Constitutional Court... upon application of the Ombudsman to the Constitutional Court and relevant judgments of the Constitutional Court, neither the Government nor the parliament have fully complied with the judgments of the Constitutional Court indicated therein. In particular, it says very specifically what the government and the parliament must take into account, what an algorithm should be to set the minimum income accordingly, or, in other words, what basic needs a person should be able to cover with a corresponding... at the minimum income fixed by the Government or Parliament. Right to health. Citizens have complained the most about the country's policy to combat the Covid-19 pandemic. A relatively limited number of complaints were received that the restrictions imposed by the Covid-19 pandemic did not allow citizens to access other health services. Citizens have been complaining about the errors they find in the treatment process and the attitudes of those who are being treated. In some cases, citizens have also pointed to systemic problems such as lack of access to treatment, refusal of reimbursement of medicines or high co-payments (especially in cases of oncological diseases). Rights of persons with disabilities. People with disabilities are increasingly receiving applications related to the amount of income, which prevents them from getting a full diet, purchasing medicines, necessary goods, and paying care provider. We have consistently received complaints from people with disabilities about treatment in the working environment, about environmental and housing adjustments, about insufficient income. With regard to people with mental disabilities, we have increasingly stressed the need to place greater emphasis on guardianship, the right of every person to live in society, the purpose of reducing institutional care and promoting the diversity and development of community-based services. During the reporting period there was an active discussion about the new... an assistant service model with both benefits and disadvantages. Overall, the changes are positive, but the service can be improved to the appropriate extent by people who are not involved in the regular activities defined by the government, but want to maintain an active lifestyle within the limits of their abilities. I also welcome the amendments adopted by the legislator to the Housing Property Law, which prevent a situation in which the possibilities of free movement of a person depended on the favour of neighbours. In 2021, for the seventh time in a row, we organised the competition “A Year Award for People with Disabilities” in collaboration with the association of disabled people and their friends “Aperons” and the Latvian National Library. In total, more than 50 applications were received. This time we particularly invited to highlight the activities that helped people with disabilities during the Covid-19 pandemic. Cultural rights. In the field of cultural rights, during the reporting year, the mural “Destination for Jamma Skulme” created by artist Kristiana Brekte on the Riga 40th secondary school building came to our attention. In our work as a whole, as well as in some of its elements, we did not see a threat to the spiritual development of children. In the specific work of art, in our view, none of the aspects listed in the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child have been promoted. The misunderstanding of children about drawing as a whole, some of its elements or the inability to perceive the motivation of its creation and the association of performance is not enough reason to paint this nightmare on the school wall. In order to raise public awareness of the freedom of artistic expression, on the International Day of Human Rights, we held a discussion dedicated to this topic – art in general. Because if we talk about art, especially painting, then we can talk – like, don't like, but those who understand from art... Especially if we are talking about painting or some other kind of painting, then we can also open up the discussion about impressionists, naiveists, surrealists and so on, and so on. But we didn't focus on it. We focused on whether or not children's rights were violated. We didn't appreciate the procedure or could... whether decisions were made on what was on its wall and in what way... is allowed, so to say, to paint, draw or put on. We have seen it from the perspective of the system, from the perspective of protecting the rights of the child. Right to property. In relation to the right to property, the residents have mostly addressed individual violations of the Ombudsman, for example, regarding the boundaries of property; about historical injustices in the recovery of property; about actions of the construction board, the State Land Service, the State Revenue Service; about tax issues, especially about calculation and application of personal income tax and real estate tax. Despite a number of previous opinions, we have repeatedly identified the inability of the public administration to cooperate in taking over the state-observed property and the related maintenance costs (the rights of private individuals, most often the owners of other apartment houses, are affected). We welcome that after more than ten years of opposition, the legislator has been able to adopt a law on the termination of forced divided property in the privatised apartment houses. This is a huge step towards the right to property, which is also guaranteed by the Constitution. Right to housing. On housing issues, the residents of apartment houses have complained most about the behaviour of managers/managers, who do not provide sufficient and detailed explanation of their activities; complain about unclear and incomprehensible bills, forced renovation costs, water loss differentials, etc. In such cases, the Ombudsman can only give an explanation of possible action, but he does not have the right to intervene materially in relations between the owner of the apartment and the manager/manager, as they are treated as private law. The residents have also complained about the refusal by the municipality of assistance on the issue of housing or the quality of the housing received within the framework of assistance. Right to a favourable environment. During the reporting year, the residents of the Ombudsman’s Office applied for troublesome noise, indicating both residential noise caused by the neighbor, industrial noise from construction works, as well as noise from road and car tracks. Yes, some years earlier we were forced to turn to the Constitutional Court also in relation to noise. And, I have to say, the Constitutional Court also agreed that the application was justified, and those shortcomings in regulatory acts were to be eliminated. We welcome the fact that people report environmental violations if it affects not only the interests of the citizen, but also the interests of the wider public, because, as we all know, the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia guarantees everyone the right to live in a favorable environment. Right to a fair trial. More than 240 applications have been received for aspects of ensuring a fair trial (though, I must say, there are less than 328 applications in the previous year, 2020). There has been an increase in the number of applications on issues regarding the promoter of pre-trial proceedings as well as non-ethical actions of judges. Several complaints have also been received about the attitude of state-guaranteed lawyers in legal proceedings and their legal assistance. Residents still express their displeasure to the Ombudsman about carrying out investigative activities and unfounded procedural decisions, delaying cases both in pre-trial proceedings and in court, thus not ensuring the examination of the case within a reasonable time. There have been quite a lot of complaints about issues of enforcement of decisions, as well as about actions of sworn bailiffs and decisions made in enforcement of decisions, although, I must say, there is a range of rights to a fair trial... and there is no small number of decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, which have very specifically concluded or decided that Latvia has not always, so to speak, been a task in the heights of ensuring the right to a fair trial. It is simply a matter of taking into account what has been recorded in the judgments, and it must be put into practice without inventing any new patterns or new procedures. Discrimination, legal equality. We consistently receive complaints from people with disabilities about treatment in the working environment, about environmental or housing adjustments. Complaints are also being received about possible unequal treatment in the working environment - in relation to possible mobbing or bosking. I am positive that employees' understanding of their rights is improving. Gender equality. Lawyers of the Ombudsman’s Office continued to participate in both national and international working groups on gender issues. We have held an on-line discussion on gender stereotypes and sexism in advertising and we have explained where to turn if such advertising is noticed or if the existing legal framework allows us to respond to it. We have participated in discussions with the Ministry of Welfare to discuss certain aspects of Latvia's position for the planned proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on transparency of wages. The proposal for a directive would reinforce the principle that men and women receive equal pay for equal work or work of equal value. Right to liberty and security. The issue of the fact that the abbreviated conviction of the court could serve as a basis for the use of detention was repeatedly raised. Where, for various reasons, including objective and justified reasons, there is a long delay in drawing up a full judgment, there may be a longstanding uncertainty about the reasons for the detention applied to him; this, in my view, is not acceptable and causes an unjustified violation of fundamental rights. In other words, it could be compared to a situation where someone is arrested, detained and taken to prison on the street, without justifying why and for how long he will be forced to stay in custody. During the reporting period we continued to receive applications regarding the time limits within which the court must ensure periodic control of detention after the two-month period provided for in Section 281(4) of the Criminal Procedure Law. However, we did not detect systemic problems or irregularities. Respect for private and family life. In relation to the spread of Covid-19, we have explained the objectives of data processing for issuing and checking Covid-19 vaccination and congestion certificates, and we have addressed public concerns about the public availability of vaccination registers. We have also received personal complaints during the reporting period about actions of the State Police Officers, which, in the opinion of the applicants, unduly or disproportionately restrict the right to privacy. Elimination of violence. We have received applications from both those who have suffered violence and those whose rights have been restricted on the basis of a court ruling on temporary protection against violence. In such cases, we have also informed individuals about the legal remedies available, as well as the possibilities for victims of violence to receive psychological support and legal assistance. Freedom of expression, speech of hatred. In 2021, 28 submissions were also received in relation to various issues related to freedom of expression: the right to express freely, to receive and disseminate information, freedom of the press, hate speech. Hate speech was expressed against people with different colour and ethnic backgrounds, as well as sexual minorities. Issues related to hate speech and disinformation were discussed in several sittings of the Saeima committees. The question of the responsibility of individuals for the dissemination of disinformation, in particular in the context of Covid-19, also remained relevant. Access to services. In the context of Covid-19, we have paid particular attention to whether citizens have access to public services and local authorities. In this context, it is also important that in 2021 an administrative territorial reform came into force leading to the creation of 43 new municipalities, which were to consolidate or issue new binding rules, create new institutions or reorganise existing ones. Access to services. In the context of Covid-19, we pay particular attention to whether citizens have access to public services and local authorities. In this context, it is also important that the territorial reform in 2021 entered into force, leading to the creation of 43 new municipalities. While municipalities have the right to determine autonomously the amount of social assistance provided to citizens in their administrative territory, this assistance should focus on children as a priority. Municipalities should ensure that, in the event of their reunification, the support available to families with children before territorial reform is not reduced, because it will not be unnecessary to recall that children are the most vulnerable group in terms of human rights. Prisoners' rights. In 2021 we continued to receive complaints about inadequate conditions in prisons, about the actions of employees, about the loss/destruction of applications addressed to the prison administration, about limited possibilities to be consulted by a specialist outside the prison, about denied access to medical records and others. Five screening visits to prisons were carried out in 2021 - Riga Central Prison, Iļguciems Prison, Jelgava Prison, Jēkabpils Prison and Daugavgrīva Prison. During his visits, the Ombudsman opened an investigation into the implementation of the rights of sentenced persons placed in drug free zones after the completion of the Detainment Centre program. Based on the recognition in 2020, that prisoners may be at risk of social exclusion, and in order to provide them with the specific support and assistance they need, an investigation has been launched into the available social support for the prisoner immediately after release from prison. One small point I want to mention. I often refer in my report to the Ombudsman, the Ombudsman, the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman. This is about the institution. Ombudsman as an institution - not only as an official, but as an institution. So, actually, together with the office colleagues. Because I've heard... Well, you've been embarrassed by such reflections, so what are you in a third person? Whereas such an Erky Puaro, he's always in this way... So it was important for you to mention it in order to dispel your concerns, if any. Latvian-Belarusian border issue. Although 2021 will remain the year of the hybrid attack by Belarus and the resulting refugee and migration crisis, which even declared an emergency in the Latvian-Belarusian border, we received in the office the number of applications from foreigners and persons without legal status during the reporting period... Either, let us say, we have not found that the number of applications has increased or there are, in substance, any significant changes if we compare with similar situations in another period. At the same time, we have repeatedly given our assessment to the Saeima, the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of the Interior on various legal aspects of this crisis situation, stressing that security of the state must be ensured in relation to the need to respect human rights, and the use of force must only be a last resort. And here it must be stressed that state security, the security of every citizen of Latvia, a citizen of Latvia in the country is a fundamental right. And that must be balanced in terms of... if we're talking about the rights of other people... In particular, if we are talking about refugees or illegal border crossings and humanitarian considerations: state security translates into humanitarian considerations. Therefore, each case must be assessed on an individual basis. And, if necessary, then, of course, there must be help - up to and including international protection. But this is already the case for the institutions and bodies... evaluation. Human trafficking. In the field of human trafficking, it is imperative to note 2021 as a year of public education. During the reporting period, colleagues from the Office continued to participate actively in the School Programme “Preparing for Life”, which provided 32 guest lectures to students, including on human trafficking issues. The employees of the Office also responded to the invitation of the Latvian Municipal Training Centre to conduct lectures to State police officers, prosecutors, judges and sworn lawyers on the topic “Children - Victims of Human Trafficking”. In 2021, a total of 23 activities were conducted, significantly improving the capacity of judicial and law enforcement personnel to recognise trafficking in human beings in a timely manner so that the perpetrators would be prosecuted and the victims would receive the necessary assistance and support from the state. These days we have also published a special report, a special study on trafficking in human beings, an area of trafficking in human beings where we have also had very close cooperation with non-governmental organisations and, of course, with public bodies and relevant services. It can be consulted electronically on our website. Development of policy documents In 2021, we were also actively involved in the development of various policy documents through studies as well as in providing our views and recommendations in a number of areas. For example, during the reporting period, we were actively involved in the legislative work due to shortcomings in the due diligence mechanism of the bona fide acquirer in criminal proceedings, also presenting our proposals for possible solutions. We also made a number of proposals to industry ministries and legislators in terms of the right to a fair trial. At the same time, despite several above-mentioned opinions, we repeatedly discovered the failure of the state administration to cooperate in taking over the property of a state-obedientless person and covering the related maintenance expenses. On the other hand, I welcome the fact that the legislator has finally been able to identify a legal solution to the problem that has existed for many years with regard to forced divided property in privatised apartment houses. Good governance. In terms of good governance, complaints are mostly received about decisions taken by the institutions, the wrongness of specific actions or the rule of law, response or failure to provide information. In some cases, we see that the authorities have not communicated enough or explained their actions or decisions to citizens. In a number of cases, we have found that we have exceeded the powers in the work of the institutions, inaction by the institutions or late action that has had adverse consequences for citizens. In the context of Covid-19, we pay particular attention to whether citizens have access to public services and local authorities. Preventive mechanism: In spring 2021, following the lifting of the emergency situation in the country, on-site visits to institutions with or likely to restrict the freedom of persons were resumed. A total of 32 visits were carried out in 2021 in the framework of the preventive mechanism. Despite the temporary suspension of verification visits, we continued to monitor with particular attention the impact of the Covid-19 restrictive measures on the most vulnerable groups, both by requesting information from the responsible authorities and by making recommendations for the protection of human rights. On 11 November 2021, the Saeima adopted a law, which entered into force on 8 December 2021, on the accession of the United Nations Convention against Torture and other forms of cruel or degrading treatment or punishment to the Optional Protocol or the so-called OPCAT. By doing so, the State of Latvia has reaffirmed both internationally and nationally that torture and other forms of cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment or punishment are prohibited and constitute a serious violation of human rights. As is already known, since 2018, the functions of the preventive mechanism are carried out in general by the entire Ombudsman's Office, but most of this function is concentrated in the Prevention Section of the Ombudsman's Office. The rights of the child. In the area of children's and youth's rights, applications have increased over the last year. It is true that the increase in the number of these applications is also mainly due to restrictions on the prevalence of Covid-19. In addition to Covid-19, thematic applicants have, as before, frequently addressed topics such as the exercise of rights of access, the termination of custody, renewal and the right to education. The highest number of applications in the area of children's rights is due to difficulties in implementing contacts and executing court rulings in cases of contacts. In fact, it has to be said here that the court order in question is unenforceable. Why? Because the court decision on contact is not binding on the child, but it is binding on parents and individuals. If a child does not want to meet for various reasons with one parent, he or she has the right not to do so. The question of whether the child is not influenced ideologically, emotionally, and thus constitutes an emotional abuse to the child not to want to meet his father or mother. Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child specified the principle of the protection of the rights of the child and specified criteria for determining best interests of the child. This will contribute to an assessment of the best interests of the child and will reduce the number of cases where any decision without an assessment was based on the best interests of the child, because it was often very simple to mention the idea of the best interests of the child, in fact without sufficient reasoning and justification why that was the case and not otherwise. The amendments of 16 June 2021 set higher qualification requirements for the composition of the orphan's court, thus improving the quality of their work. With effect from 1 July 2021, a new model was introduced for the provision and administration of an assistant service, which also concerns children's rights and interests. During the reporting period there was an active discussion about this new model, which has both its own benefits and minuses. In 2021, I initiated a case-by-case investigation into systemic problems related to a criminal offence against the child's morality and sexual integrity. In the opinion, I draw attention to the fact that the investigation of sexual crimes against children is a complex issue of children's rights, which requires continuous improvement of the system and the attraction of resources, and I made my recommendations to the institutions. We also held a press conference involving both the police leadership and the Prosecutor General. It has to be said that, on the part of the police leadership, the greatest concern was that they were unable to provide the necessary expertise in a timely manner - the complex expertise - where it is necessary to act immediately, immediately to obtain and strengthen evidence without repeatedly harming children who have been victims of sexual crimes. Participation in international organisations. At the end of 2021, at the Annual Meeting of the European Network of National Human Rights Institutions, we have been elected as part of the Working Party on Human Rights of the World National Human Rights Institution (the GANHRI - The Global Alliance of National Human Rights). We have submitted a report to the UN Human Rights Council on the human rights situation in Latvia within the framework of the UN Universal Periodic Review cycle 3, as well as colleagues of the Office participated in the 48th session of the Human Rights Council, where the report of the Republic of Latvia was examined. From 27 September to 29 September, representatives of the Bureau in Athens participated in the annual conference of the European Network of Children Ombudsmans, the theme of which was “Covid-19 and Children’s Rights: Teaching for the Future”. The Bureau was represented in a number of international working groups, such as the working groups of the European Network of Children Ombudsmans on the establishment of common standards and values for all network organisations; the working group of the European Network of Equality Organisations, Equinet on Gender Equality; the working group of the European Network of National Human Rights Institutions, ENNHRI on Asylum and Migration; and the working group of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. We have also continued our participation in the project implemented by the Centre for the Development of the International Migration Policy on the establishment of a common system of forced return in the European Union (the so-called FReM III), which aims to establish a system of return consistent with European Union legislation, as well as to ensure the participation of national experts in the reserve of forced return operations of the European Border and Coast Guard Agency (Frontex). Information to the public. On the website www.tiesibsargs.lv published 217 news and press releases, 181 seminars, discussions and events organised by the Ombudsman took place. In remote format, everyone could follow discussions about the new model of assistant service for people with disabilities, gender stereotypes in advertising, the role of the Ombudsman in relations between politicians and officials, the importance of digital skills for people with disabilities in everyday life, access to courts for people with disabilities, the role of art in the context of law and others. In this way, the decision-makers, the social partners and the wider public once again highlighted the topical topics in the context of human rights and pointed to areas where more thorough domestic work is needed. In 2021, the Facebook page of the Ombudsman’s Office, set up at the end of 2020, has played a major role in informing the public, reaching a large audience of 2200 followers and 435 407 users. The aim of the drawing competition “Separate Your Ombudsmans” organised in spring 2021 was to raise awareness of children and young people about the duties and tasks of the Ombudsman. Students from grades 1 to 8 participated in the competition, and 97 drawings from 25 schools in Latvia were sent to it. The human rights play organised in 2021 addressed the issue of the right of persons to freedom of assembly in circumstances of a pandemic, as well as labour law issues related to compulsory vaccination for certain groups of posts. During the five-year anniversary, 12 teams from University of Latvia, Riga School of Law, Riga Stradins University, Business Management College and Turiba University participated in the oral competition. In 2021 representatives of the office continued to participate in the school program “Life ready”, reading educational lectures for children and young people of Latvian school about data protection issues, human trafficking and prevention, reading of legal texts and election practice. I have a couple more pages with performance indicators, but I allow the idea that all of this is available to you electronically, and so to speak, because of the procedural economy, I will not mention statistics, because it is available in both the relay and the report. And - Thank you. This concludes my speech. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U70	Thank you. A debate was launched on the Ombudsman’s report for 2021. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U71	Dear colleagues, The Ombudsman's annual speech and report: this must be one of the most important steps in the life of the Saeima, and the Ombudsman must be one of the strongest critics who expresses his views on the work of the government and on the work of the Saeima, because this critic has been given a very large mandate. Reports of the Ombudsman shall be heard by both the law enforcement authorities and other state institutions, which shall also ensure the development of democracy mentioned by the Ombudsman. I have some things on which I would like to add and which I would like to say in the Ombudsman's report, of course, also some things that I would like to draw attention to. I think it is very right that the Ombudsman has also focused on important issues such as... So continue to focus if we are talking about children with disabilities, which members of the Saeima also fought about providing technical support. We wish this fight to come to a positive conclusion, however, because here we have to say that it is a great shame to the Ministry of Finance, which is still standing up for really non-negligible spending from the state budget, in order to provide technical support (car seats) for the safety of children with disabilities, for which we had a great debate in the Saeima. It is very important, of course, to respect the principle of good lawmaking, which was also noted by the Ombudsman. I do not know whether an amendment to the Saeima roll of order here in this Saeima will help, but we know that there are separate parliamentary committees which, for various reasons, are drawing up draft laws submitted by the opposition and the Ombudsman has quite rightly drawn attention to the fact that there are more than 40 draft laws in the Saeima that have simply been stuck in the Saeima Commissions without further progress. For my part, I would like to add that we are looking forward very, very much to the progress of Mr Skride's draft laws such as... support for adoptors, amendments to the Labour Law, the Maternity Benefits Act and also support for parents who are parents of premature babies. For more than a year, there is no answer. Just as for more than two years now, we cannot expect any response to support for large families from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, because at second reading we have been stuck by a single draft law on the reduction of the vehicle toll... the abolition of large families and family cars. Is that because they are the draft laws promoted by the opposition? Yeah, yeah, that's why it's not because it's just too much work for commissions. But what would we like to add... also with a number of colleagues speaking... on the Ombudsman's report. I have to say that the Ombudsman was very hopeful for many, many people this year, because, as I said, this is very, very powerful... That's what it should be. He must be a strong critic of the government and parliament, who has been given a great deal of authority. We see that the Ombudsman's report also contains a number of positive results where the Ombudsman has achieved justice. But I have to say that the Ombudsman has been very disappointed by many people who hoped for the Ombudsman to defend him on matters of employment law, which is... Can I unite the times?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U72	The times of your debate are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U73	Thank you. In his work legal relations, the Ombudsman unfortunately showed a completely different face than Latvian citizens would have expected, because it is clear that the right to health must be defended, and the Ombudsman in this case, of course, tried to keep this argument closely present, but what came to end - the Ombudsman more defended Article 116 of the Satversme, or the right of the State to restrict the rights of others, also defended the power of the Government to ensure restrictions on people than the fundamental human rights, forgetting that the right to work is not only to acquire the necessary livelihood for himself, but also to preserve his work, which many people, very many, have taken away this year. Not a year, but individuals, concrete decision-makers. Unfortunately, the Ombudsman was among those who spokespersons of opinion who were absolutely confident in supporting the amendments to the law of the community law, on which we are still fighting, in support of the fact that, yes, it is perfectly normal and helpful for people to take away their jobs, without even being underestimated! - how much it would be necessary. As an example, I can mention the fact that the Ombudsman has not looked into these details... because the Ombudsman has not studied the fact that remote work in state and municipal institutions was also very important for many. We are talking, for example, about the blind branch, where a number of blind people have lost access to support from remote service workers. Is this a fundamental human right? And is that what the Ombudsman supports? I wish the Ombudsman to look more into the substance of the matter, listen more to the people, because he is not a person of government support, he is not a person of parliamentary support. He has to work for people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U74	The floor in the debate is for the Member, Mr Možville.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U75	Hello, colleagues! Hello, chair of the sitting! A little bit of history. In 2012, the Ombudsman with a harsh face approached the public with a story that there is no free education in Latvia. At that time, I was a municipal member and we felt that this harsh face could finally be arranged by the Ministry of Education and Science and that the school would stop the practice of requiring parents to buy teaching aids. Then comes the year 2020 and the document on the Ombudsman's website says that after a long break in 2019 this issue came to the attention of the Ombudsman again. I'd like to ask in a technical language: did the Ombudsman get on fire too late, slow? It took eight years to put this issue in perspective again. Nothing has changed. Schools still demand teaching tools... Right now, too. This is particularly so for parents living in rural areas. I was hoping that the Ombudsman would lead the case to some solution. Unfortunately, nothing has happened. Crowdness continues and demand for teaching aids continues. And I have not heard that the Ombudsman once spoke in the budget debate on the issue of what is happening with these teaching materials, or enough money. I have not heard such questions and I am still waiting for the Ombudsman to announce: this problem raised in 2012 has finally been solved, the Ministry of Education and Science has misunderstood, the Ministry of Finance has allocated the appropriate amount of money, and the next year of training will begin as free education for all, with all the necessary teaching materials. So, colleagues, I believe that the Ombudsman has not dealt with this at the moment. The Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Education and Science have not listened to the Ombudsman's report. Now we can't say happy news next year... that at the beginning of the school year schools will actually provide free education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U76	The floor in the debate for Member Ramona Petraviča.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U77	Dear President, Dear colleagues, Due to the poor management of the Covid–19, unvaccinated Latvians were denied employment, thereby generating income, receiving services and even moving in a significant way. Government decisions created absurd situations in which unvaccinated workers were suspended from work for three months and even for a longer period. For testing they had to spend a significant part of their income, and students were not allowed to study only as a result of a person’s free choice not to receive a vaccine. Intuitously, all the above illustrations point to a more favourable treatment of some (in this case, vaccinated) part of the public, or discrimination. Very many people sought help, as already pointed out by the Ombudsman, both in the Ombudsman's Office and in front of Members. Unfortunately, this year's Ombudsman's report, as well as the answer to my question about placing groups at a disadvantage, did not point to the illegal conduct of the government. The only reason for this decision was the definition of classical discrimination, which includes less favourable effects on the basis of a characteristic that a person possesses and cannot change. However, please note that the majority of people who chose not to take the vaccine did so on the basis of concerns about health risks or insufficient information on the long-term consequences of the vaccines. In this case, the change of health after vaccination is not a sign that a person might voluntarily or relatively easily change. It should therefore be regarded as one of the characteristics to which discrimination applies. Without assistance from the Ombudsman, people were disappointed. In addition, Article 106 of the Satversme provides for the right of everyone to choose a job, Article 111 protects human health and Article 112 provides for the right of everyone to education. Considering that unvaccinated people were practically prevented from working on vaccination adverse reactions... Long-term effects were not fully identified at the start of vaccination and unvaccinated students were denied access to higher education institutions. And then it is not clear to me why quoting the definition of discrimination is sufficient to justify violations of at least three articles of the Satversme. Finally, it should also be noted that all the above examples of the failure of the government to manage the pandemic are not only discriminatory but also polarising - they distinguish between vaccinees and unvaccinated ones, creating mutual hatred for the existence or absence of rights in one of the groups. For example, this led to unvaccinated families with higher spending burdens and lower incomes feeling unnecessary for the country because vaccinated parents were not deprived of work. This cannot in any way be regarded as good legislative practice, and must therefore be condemned. I would like to remind you that it is the responsibility of the government and Parliament to bear the responsibility for the socio-economic or other difficulties experienced by the people of Latvia. Despite this, government decisions have been discriminatory, disproportionate and illegal. Although the Ombudsman indicated that all restrictions should be proportionate, at the same time the Constitutional Court has recognised that restrictions regarding the activities of the shopping centres violated the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U78	Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U79	Dear President, Dear colleagues, Ombudsman! Ladies! Oh, my God! First of all, I would like to thank the Ombudsman for his report - the extensive work - on 174 pages with annexes. Indeed, at least I regard our Ombudsman's report as objective and I would like to remind you that the Ombudsman is not a representative of the opposition. I would like to remind you that the Ombudsman is not a representative of the Government nor does the Ombudsman have an executive role. In his report, the Ombudsman pointed to the things that we have talked about, which the government representatives have also spoken about. Yes, I would like to hear the Ombudsman's Office report much sharper about the government's decisions. Perhaps the representatives of the government, the coalition, would like to hear much milder or more flattering reports, but I think that is objective. Colleagues, I remind you that we are the legislator. We've decided... We determined how people could work last year and who had the right to a job that did not have the right to a job. I think there was a lot - a lot! - a serious mistake, and the consequences we see. We see the consequences of our health care and, my fellow Members also mentioned, in education - especially the younger... Primary school for children... for schoolchildren, this is a very serious consequence. We're going to see these consequences for a long time and dictates... after many years, they will undoubtedly have an impact on Latvian society. We have seen changes in tax policy in 2019 and in fact in 2020, in 2021... cleanly, they entered into force during the crisis. Many people struggled to pay the tax because they could not work, and there was an objective denial of the right to work. It's the same thing... Colleagues, I would like to recall this decision of the Constitutional Court... submitted by certain traders. Yes, this application of the Constitutional Court was very high-quality prepared, and the Constitutional Court clearly expressed its position, but we do not have such an application for people who lose their jobs - both in education and in many and many sectors. The decision of the Constitutional Court regarding the right of elected officials to represent their voters in municipalities and the Saeima also objectively lacks. We were first-liners who, on the pretext that if there is no vaccination certificate, a person cannot work remotely... It was not possible to work remotely in the work of the municipality, it was not possible to work remotely in the work of both Saeima and commissions. Is that legal? No, colleagues, that's not legal! Finally, I would like to remind you that Latvian municipalities are the main providers of services for our citizens in the country. Main service providers! We should also review the draft law on municipalities, which is pre-war law. The situation in municipalities has changed at the moment, and also the promises made within the framework of administrative territorial reform have not been fulfilled, because we know that this right to receive the same service after the reform... these people will not have physical rights. We will be dealing with this, probably in the next Ombudsman's reports - that these promises will not be fulfilled because, after the merger and now... even more so, when the government and the coalition have taken out the funds for the municipalities, it will simply have no money. If we are talking about money, then we have, as a matter of fact, unanimously supported the need to increase the national defence budget. I think there is really no doubt about this here. 2,5 per cent in the coming years as a minimum. Don't give God, something with our country will be wrong! But colleagues, as the Ombudsman said, the fundamental right to national security is our fundamental right. And the state's comprehensive defence system makes clear what needs to be done both in civil protection and in economic sustainability that it is one of the pillars. Persistence of the economy, economy... Our government and coalition keep Latvian Chambers of Commerce and Industry at a distance with their plans and proposals. We will have to pay for all this. Our security is an economy, an economy for people to feel safe, especially at this time of war, when the war is actually taking place next to our country. I would like to unite the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U80	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U81	Therefore, colleagues, one of our main tasks at this point is not to undermine the opposition with a position, but all of us must work to make the economy very, very stable in the first place; that people have the funding to pay for public service bills; that people know, especially in the outermost regions outside Riga, that they will be able to pay the heating bill in the next winter, that they will be able to buy food for their children. That's very, very serious. We have all possible autumn alarms in the food industry. It is not just a slogan that there will be a 50 percent price for food. Very much food will lack raw materials, we will lack food. What are we doing, colleagues? We're not doing enough. We need to declare a truly emergency situation in this sector when all the alarms are calling here right now. People have the right to food in the end! To the availability! To security, to comprehensive national protection! Colleagues, therefore, our task is to do as much as possible in this Saeima as possible, so that next year, when the Ombudsman reports to the new parliament, there are fewer to point out about the shortcomings. To have been made together... We can still be able to do a lot of things in this term. These few months are very, very important. Colleagues, let us be united! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U82	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U83	Hello, honourable Ombudsman, Mr. Janson! Hello! Hello, honourable Members! This is the eighth report, which is part of my job duties... Which I have to read. Each time the Ombudsman emphasizes these topics, others, but very often (also in these times, Mr. 176, Mr. Janson, pages) are themes that are repeated and have been allowed or not done in any way. Here I would first like to thank the Ombudsman's office. The relevant Saeima Commission, the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, has, in my opinion, I will not lie, Mr Janson, very good cooperation with your office. And I also like the fact that in this office there was a change of 0.02 percent, 0.02 -- you must have been there? That is, this collective of 46 women and 7 men, Mr Janson, is so united that, let's say... I think in many ministries... Mr Paviluta, when he represents the Ministry of Health, is here and could certainly know about the replacement of the staff at the Ministry of Health. Here we go! In the Commission, when Mr Janson talked about his report, he drew attention to one of the key aspects which missed us in this great group of events. We remember that "refugees" (in the footsteps) landed in Belarus and then a wide range of human rights offices, human rights defenders, in Europe, shook us with a finger in the world and said that we all had to go in, they are refugees, human rights and so on. And I heard this very point from Mr Janson's mouth on the face news - false news - because we will speak an open language here, and we also knew what these are about refugees - men in years of strength, without much wealth, to say so. Look at the real refugees from Ukraine right now. But that's not what it's about. In any case, these face news... The Ombudsman has also highlighted this message, but it disappeared somewhere in that whole amount of news. Mr Ombudsman, I am asking you to make this message in some way louder. It is very important that people have the right to know their rights. We've done it in the commission... and I think that many commission leaders who are present here receive letters from citizens with various questions. It is very common that commission managers themselves do not have this answer and that consultants are also unable to reply. Then mostly we do not know anything, this is not our sphere, we are not responsible for it, thank you! And the football.lv begins - that's what I call it. We in the Commission, Mr. Janson, should not even be offended. We are sending a great deal of letters directly to your office, and that is why its statistics, I believe, have grown, because the Ombudsman's office also performs quite a large information function about the rights that a person needs to know... that he has the right to know the rights. That's what you're doing. So do it more, do it more often, talk about rights louder, explain it to people! This is very important. In turn, if commission managers sometimes receive letters to which you may not know the answers themselves, use www.tiesibsargs.lv, send letters so that the Ombudsman creates an answer in the whole spectrum of problems. He has a big office that does not change, there is no turnover, and in this respect it only makes sense. Let me not make any special mention now of the fact that there are such problems, such problems, that is not, in my view, today's goal. The only request I have for the Saeima's Bureau next time. Ladies and gentlemen, you are working on the agenda and, in my opinion, on human rights... Well, think for yourself... I remember two years ago Mr. Janson was sitting here until four at night. He sat until various leave was considered and so on. Well, a little... Give me some time!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U84	The times of your debate are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U85	Thank you. I don't want Mr. Janson or the Ombudsman, but it's not Mr. Janson, to wait for him... in the order of business. Simply put it on the agenda as a first question. Just like when Mr. Kariņš comes and tells whether the Foreign Minister comes and tells - they don't sit for four, five, six hours either! Okay, we're still on time today, so to say... But this is the kind of agenda... Well, I think a little thing that can be done very easily... And then there's no big waiting. So thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U86	The debate is closed. Mr. Janson, would you like to add something? Please! The name of the Ombudsman - after the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U87	Yeah, thank you. We, the fanatics of human rights, will call it, and the representatives of human rights protection, are using every opportunity to express their opinion, answer questions and perhaps make a reply to the criticisms expressed. I must remind you that there are often situations where not all people - including in the political dimension - fully or precisely understand the role of the Ombudsman. And with the opportunity, I'll be very brief... I'll make a little comment. Hence, the main function of the Ombudsman is to identify systemic offences, systemic problems. And here I have to say that we are very active and have done a lot, so to speak, in the public, invisible, let's call it on the front. And if we look back at last year and last year, we see that almost every week, a number of letters have been sent to governments and ministries (also in relation to the community - and especially the community) but not all of these letters, not all of this information, have been made public. Why? Because both ministries and governments... on many topics, on many points... in line with our recommendations, corrected both the relevant government orders and the rules. And, in particular, I would like to stress that cooperation with the relevant parliamentary commissions has also been very high; we have taken part in all parliamentary commissions dealing with matters relating to the community. And here I have to stress: my colleagues participated in every meeting of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. And not just. We are talking about the parliamentary dimension. Speaking about the right to education - yesterday there was a very interesting discussion at the College of Law (academic Jundzis organised); there were, so to speak, representatives of academic environment and professionals as well. The issue of Article 112 of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia... And about how we were then, years ago... as you mentioned, eight years ago... We have achieved that the Ministry of Education and Science - then the Ministry of Education and Science - has finally read what has been written into the law. But, of course, that was not enough; we had to turn to the Constitutional Court, because neither the executive nor the legislator... were not ready to realize what has been recorded - still has been recorded! - Article 112 of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia. That is, it is about the right to education: basic education is compulsory, secondary education is free of charge or, in other words, paid from state and municipal budgets. The Constitutional Court has taken a step further in this regard - availability of higher education is also established; it is stated that it is to be viewed through the prism of Article 112 of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia. But I doubt that all the representatives of Parliament are aware and aware of this. I very much hope that the relevant commissions have been informed and understood about this. If we are talking about sustainability, it must be said that education - starting from its first step, first stage, the so-called kindergarten, from the age of one and a half - is not an extra, but a necessity for the sustainability of the country, because only an educated, healthy, motivated, properly paid, employed person who can rely on national social security will be motivated to take care of himself, his family and the country. Unfortunately, although there are even a number of judgements of the Constitutional Court in the field of social law, they are still not respected. Then there is the question – do we still need any superspecialization institution that analyses, evaluates, evaluates, whether the government, local government and parliament have complied with the established judgment of the Constitutional Court? I think that depends to a large extent on political professionalism and how much the relevant decision-makers at all decision-making levels are interested in focusing on the country and what is included in our basic law - the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia. Our Constitution, the Republic of Latvia - it's colossal, it's an excellent basic law that is modern, that is fundamental, that is the road bag of how we will live, how we actually have to live - happy, healthy, educated, loving. Because the fundamental rights - a short version, a short definition - are everyone's right to happiness. And in Chapter VIII of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia everyone and everyone can find this element of their happiness. But the task of government and parliament, even despite various political ideologies, platforms or government declaration, is to focus on what is laid down in the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia. And if you cannot find a specific norm in the chapter “Principles of Human Rights”, then we, lawyers, especially lawyers of constitutional law, smile, but seriously stress, say: if you cannot find something in those or other articles of the Satversme, see Article 1 of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia. There is everything: about the rule of law, good governance, social justice and so on, and so on. As regards the institution of the Ombudsman and its strengthening, I have repeatedly addressed... both at the Constitutional Commission of the President of Latvia and... then there was a working group set up by the Legal Commission... with the President's Institute... whether, so to say, the extension of functions, responsibilities and rights. We came with a proposal that the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia should be supplemented by an institution of the Ombudsman. In particular, we proposed that the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia be supplemented by Articles 117 and 118. Article 117 would define the institution of the Ombudsman and Article 118 would, as we proposed, set out the procedure and procedure for the election of the Ombudsman. In my opinion, this is extremely important, because it would also be a serious signal to the European and international community - to show, in substance, that the fundamental human rights in Latvia are beyond everything. Because now we see that decision-makers - in the form of state power - are very detached... Well, let's say, there's a huge gap between it and society. If we read what is written in Article 2 of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia... “The sovereign power of the State of Latvia belongs to the people.” But does the people realize that the people are sovereign? The results of the elections show the opposite. Dear Members, I have a huge call to look at the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia, look at the sovereign, look at the people of Latvia as a very important element, why we are all in the positions, in the works we are in. Our objectives are the same, but the methodology by which we achieve those objectives is different. My role as Ombudsman is to be very much as your ally, to support you with your recommendations and, yes, often with criticism, because I will say - and that will not be exaggerated - that my colleagues, the colleagues in the Ombudsman's office, are among the most outstanding in the area of human rights, in Europe, absolutely certainly. And we also see this from international network organisations where we are quoted, we are invited to listen to us because... here we have to say that Latvia is unique - in a positive sense! - in the sense that the institution of the Ombudsman deals with the whole range of fundamental rights. In other countries, there is a little difference - there are equality organisations, there are several parliamentary ombudsmen, there are child ombudsmen... and so on, and so on. But Latvia... I will say this: we are a very progressive and effective country in this area. And I have a very great call for you - please take our recommendations into account. If you do not take into account our recommendations and this is, let us assume, some fundamentally decisive issue, we have to turn to the Constitutional Court. But any court, and especially the constitutional court, is like a last resort. And it is also such a not too beautiful signal to international human rights organisations that, you see, the decision-makers did not listen. However, the Constitutional Court determines in its judgment: yes, you know, the Ombudsman was right. And the state was once again lost. We are smarter, we are more perspective, we are more efficient and think in particular about sustainability! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U88	Thank you. Thus, the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia has heard the report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Latvia in 2021. Thank you to Ombudsman Juris Jansons for his report and participation in the Saeima sitting. Before continuing to examine the agenda items already adopted, I would like to inform you of the proposals received to amend the agenda. Members Karina Sprūde, Aldis Gobzems, Maris Možvillo, Jūlija Stepanenko and Kaspars Girgens are asking for changes to the agenda of the sitting of the Saeima on 21 April and to include the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax”. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? ( Intercretion: Vote!) ) Members are therefore asking for a vote. ‘ For or “to” is... Ms Sprūde has applied for an amendment to the agenda. Please, name!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U89	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that three years ago you signed the Declaration on the planned operation of the Cabinet of Ministers led by Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš, where there is point 70 under the heading ‘Agricultural policy’: ‘Let us assess the possibilities of reducing VAT on fresh meat, fresh fish, eggs and dairy products.’ And the evaluation seems to have happened: the Ministry of Finance, led by the Unity Representative Reira, not only does not allow for a reduction in VAT on additional products, but also strongly opposes the already reduced VAT on fresh fruit, berries and vegetables. And what is the reason? The Ministry of Finance believes that reducing the VAT rate is not the best fiscal instrument, because it loses the state budget and is, in essence, only an entrepreneur. Well, I'm sorry, but I'm not quite clear how the fact that an entrepreneur - a producer, a farmer - is a beneficiary can be considered a disadvantage. Moreover, Karin of the same Unity proudly told all that money was as much as ever. Where's the money left? ( Internouncing call.) Why was it that many money could not be diverted so that our businessmen, Latvia, could really have any benefit? How can a businessman who invests further in his company pay wages to his employees and also feeds his family himself be considered a disadvantage?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Would I miss something (Interface: “Yes!” ) and farmers would have become our country's richest... millionaires? Experience so far shows that the reduction in the VAT rate for Latvia's characteristic fruits, berries, vegetables, introduced in 2018, has made a significant contribution, both to farmers and society as a whole. Statistics show that the turnover of goods and services in the sector has increased by 9.4 percent, while average wages in the sector have also increased by 9-10 percent. According to market monitoring, prices for fruit and vegetables typical of Latvia have decreased by 11.7 percent thanks to 5 percent VAT pilot projects in the Baltic national retail networks. What does 11.7 percent mean? This means: every eighth purchase - vegetables and berries - is now for free people. We do not want to allow this. We're wealthy! Go on. I will remind you: in Belgium, the VAT rate for food is 6 percent, in the Czech Republic - 10, in France - 5.5, in Greece - 13, in Croatia - 5, in Ireland the rate for food is 13.5, in Italy (intermediate call). - 4 percent, Cyprus - 5, Luxembourg - 3 percent, Netherlands - 9, Norway - 11,1 percent. In Poland, zero! As I remember, Martin told us, now we have directives... Well, I'm sorry, Poland can - we can't. We're as wealthy as ever. Portugal can - 6 percent. Romania: 9 percent, Slovakia: 10 percent, Slovenia: 9.5, Finland: 14, Spain: 4, Hungary: 18, Germany: 7, Sweden: 12 percent. It is true that some countries will indeed not apply reduced VAT rates to food. Our neighbours - Estonia and Lithuania. Malta and Denmark as well, but at the same time Denmark spends much more money on social protection than Latvia. Denmark has opted for a different approach by introducing significant social protection benefits. Whatever we would like to compare ourselves with the Nordic countries, Latvian and Danish social models are not comparable. And it is also clear that we do not want to be like a less developed European country for Bulgaria, where the standard VAT rate is still lower than in Latvia. As we know, the reduced VAT rate in Latvia applies to a very small group of basic food products; it is equal to 5 percent for fruit, berries and vegetables typical of Latvian climatic conditions. The data speak for themselves. The reduced VAT rate should be applied more, more frequently. The amount of the rate can, of course, be discussed, but the political solution at this point in time is as follows: should there be an opportunity to increase social benefits by 10 times, or should there be a possibility to reduce VAT for an extended range of products. This would mean going to Denmark or going to a more developed European country. Bulgaria cannot be an example for us. And I have to stop talking about Denmark as an example when other aspects are absolutely incomparable. I would like to finish with the fact that today morning there was a message that the eggs would be... price for eggs will be increased by 30 per cent (interim call.) , but the price of chicken meat will be EUR 6 per kilogram; producers already believe that it will be a delicacy.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U90	Mrs. ratchet, time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U91	I simply call for support for people to have those delicacy - eggs and chicken. Please and call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U92	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the Member Sprūde, Gobzem, Možvillo, Stepanenko and Girgens' request to change the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The order of business has not been amended. Draft law is not on the agenda. The Commission of Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Prevention is asking to make changes to the agenda of the sitting of the Saeima on 21 April - to include in the draft law “Amendment to the Ukrainian Civil Support Law” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers (No. 1432/Lp13) review of the draft alternative law “Amendment to the Ukrainian Civil Support Law” (No. 1438/Lp13) at first reading. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The order of business has been amended. The Saeima Bureau has received a request from Members Šteina, Rancana, Latkovska, Zakaistova and Šnore to transfer the agenda item “Amendment to the Ukrainian Civil Support Law” of 21 April of the Saeima and an alternative draft law following the report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Latvia in 2021. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. We shall continue to examine the agenda that has already been amended. The next item on the agenda is "Provision of draft legislation". Draft law “Amendment to the Ukrainian Civil Support Act”, first reading. Drafter of the law - Cabinet of Ministers. And the alternative bill "Amendment to the Ukrainian Civil Support Act", tabled by the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption. For information: the report is on both draft laws and the debate on both draft laws in general, but first, the vote on the draft law tabled by the Cabinet of Ministers and then on the alternative draft law. Member Martin Stein on behalf of the Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U93	Hello, very honourable chair of the sitting! Colleagues! We consider today's draft law on “Amendment to the Ukrainian Civil Support Law”. The amendments provide support to Ukrainian civilians by providing them with the right to receive state-paid maternity services and health care services related to their provision, while providing for exceptions to the application of the conditions laid down in the Law on Sexual and Reproductive Health and providing for equal rights to receive this service regardless of the person's age. As mentioned by the head of the meeting, the Commission rejected the draft law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers and invited to support the alternative draft law. ( Interface: “There is now a vote to be taken. ” ) The debate must now be held. ( Internouncing call.) We need to have a debate at the moment.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U94	Colleagues, first of all, we are opening a debate, but it is time for a break. The first part of the debate was by Daniel Pavluts, the Minister for Health. He also said that we would expect a break and work on this draft law to continue after the break. Please enable the Member presence registration mode. Name To Inese Voika, Member of the Parliamentary Secretary, for reporting the results of the registration of Members. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “For you here today PR day, if, the third already... “; dep. I. Voika: “And there will be more.” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U95	Not registered: Arvils Asheradens, Aldis Blumbergs, Mārtiņš Bondars, Jānis Cielēns, Raivis Dzintars, Aldis Gobzems, Ilze Indriksone, Ivans Klementjevs, Ieva Krapāne, Armands Krauze, Viesturs Liepkalns, Ināra Mūrniece and Vitalijs Orlovs. Thank you. Nice break!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U96	So it's a break until 12.30. See you! The Bible says: “The sayings of the sons of Israel are with you. ” — !” ‘How long?’ ) Col. 13.30 One hour. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U97	Dear colleagues, please take your seats in the Chamber. We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. We are working on the draft law on the amendment to the Ukrainian civilian support law. ( The drug is noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) Please keep working. We are continuing with the debate on this proposed legislation. The name of the Minister for Health, Daniel Pavlut. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U98	Dear Member of the Speaker of the Saeima. Dear Members, Honourable Members! Congratulations to you, I am glad to be here with you at the Saeima Tribute. Today, I would like to briefly highlight why the Ministry of Health has led and the Cabinet of Ministers has supported the proposal for a simplified and accelerated procedure for ending state-paid pregnancy for women in Ukraine who have become victims of sexual violence, resulting in pregnancy, in the context of an invasion by Russia. First of all, I would like to thank both the head of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption, Mr Rancán, and the members of the Commission, for their hard work, which enabled us to look at this issue today at first reading. I very much hope that, following a respectful discussion, this issue could be dealt with to the end of the day, because time is very important, given that it is possible to stop a pregnancy by week 12. About the bill... I would like to say the following on the substance of the amendments: Colleagues, we, Western society as a whole, have not been able to prevent this war, this Russian invasion in Ukraine, we have not been able to prevent their violence and the consequences that the Ukrainian people are facing. What we can do: we can help the Ukrainian civilians, refugees coming into Latvia, we can help Ukrainian women who have been victims of sexual violence. That is the nature, colleagues, very, very simple. It is our duty not to continue violence against women against whom men... The troops of the Russian Federation have turned... sexually, as a result of which the consequences and consequences may continue, some of us probably find it difficult to imagine what they are, we cannot even grasp them, and here, I think, I am speaking on behalf of men. Women themselves have the right to decide on their own body. They are the only ones who can decide what to do in this situation. On the other hand, it is our duty to support and help their decision in a way that minimises emotional and physical suffering. Our duty here is to provide quality, legal and accessible care... where appropriate, unlike other countries which do not. So what we offer to do is to introduce an exception to this Ukrainian civilian support law, which would mean that, unlike the conditions laid down in the Sexual and Reproductive Health Act, it would not apply to the termination of a state-paid pregnancy... That is, there will be no need for a report from the law enforcement authorities, because it is difficult to imagine how a Ukrainian woman could turn to our investigating bodies and get evidence of rape. Similarly, there will be no need for confirmation of the medical consilium in order to be able to receive the service faster, it is foreseen that in one place both gynecologist consultation and decision on... termination, and also manipulation itself, the operation itself. It will not be necessary to wait for 72 hours, which is currently provided for in standard legislation, between one step and the other. Colleagues, please note that these proposed amendments are not new regulations, we did not create new regulations, we apply an exception under the existing arrangements. Already in Latvia, the state pays the termination of pregnancy if it has been incurred as a result of violence. Our task is to remove objective barriers, because Ukrainian women cannot take the necessary legislative action in our law enforcement bodies and elsewhere. This is a question of our humanity and understanding. I call on Members of the Saeima to support this issue today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U99	I closed the debate. I thank the Minister for his participation in the debate. Mr. Stein, please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U100	Thank you. The draft law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers should now be voted in accordance with the procedure. The Commission calls for this to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U101	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law amending the law on civilian support for Ukraine (No. 1432/Lp13) submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 1, for - 64, for - 1. Draft law has been rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U102	The Commission decided unanimously. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) to support the urgency of the draft law of the Commission - alternative. I also ask the Saeima to support urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U103	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on support for Ukrainian civilians submitted by the Commission (No. 1438/Lp13) recognition as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U104	The Commission unanimously supported the draft law at first reading. I also call on the Saeima to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U105	Please call me! We will vote for the alternative draft law "Amendment to the Ukrainian Civil Support Law" at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U106	I call on the Saeima to support this draft law at second, final, reading without re-examination by the parliamentary committee, in accordance with the rule of order of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U107	Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law "Amendment to the Ukrainian Civil Support Law" in the second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U108	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U109	On the agenda - draft law on amendments to the Energy Act, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Krišjānis Feldmans. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U110	Good afternoon! Let's look at the draft law "Amendments to the Energy Act" (No. 1436/Lp13). Three proposals have been received for the second, final, reading. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U111	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U112	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U113	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U114	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U115	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U116	All the proposals have therefore been examined. Please support the draft law at second, final, final reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U117	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Energy Act at second, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Medicine”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Andris Skride. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U118	Colleagues! Consequently, the draft law ‘Amendments to the medical law’. At final reading, we are adopting the "defibrillator law" in fact, as I called it. This is the Saeima (Interface: “No demonstration!” )... Saeima’s inventory (Enable the defibrillator, says: “Be calm and follow the instructions!” )... A really simple device, and this is the place at the Saeima, i.e. from 2024, will be mandatory in places to be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers - public gatherings, cinemas, theatres, planes... We know - if your heart stops in three minutes - in three minutes! - do not use an automatic external defibrillator, then actual resuscitation is near zero. We know that often an emergency comes to us within 7 to 10 minutes... We already know there's more... go on. In many countries these defibrillators are supplied with drones and thus save many lives. So we will keep track of the news and, if necessary, put it in place. No proposals were received for the third reading. And Impressions: “Keep it on the porch! ” “But this one will stay at the podium?” )... It's at the guard and can be brought in one minute. On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support the third final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U119	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Medicine” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Welfare Organisations”, third reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Aldis Adamovičs. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U120	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government examined for the third reading draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Welfare Organisations” (No. 1310/Lp13). I would remind you that the amendments provide for the right of public benefit organisations to establish a limited liability company to which the status of a social enterprise is to be granted in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Law on the Social Enterprise and to transfer to it the donated property or financial resources free of charge. The Commission has supported the draft law for third reading. I also call on the Saeima to support this draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U121	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Welfare Organisations” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Penal Registers”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Ainars Bauskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U122	Hello, colleagues! We are working on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Penal Register” (No. 1229/Lp13). We have received six proposals for the third reading. 1. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Corrigendum to the following wording: ‘Disable Article 9(19), points (i) and (k), specifying accordingly the text of the amendments contained in Article 7 of the draft law.’ Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U123	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U124	2. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. It is recommended that the addition of ‘f’ to Article 9(20) be excluded. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U125	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U126	3. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Article 9.1(f) shall be excluded. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U127	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U128	4. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Points (a) and (b) of the first paragraph of Article 19 shall be excluded. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U129	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U130	Five more. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. In Article 19.2.1, point 9, the words ‘annotation if’ shall be replaced by the words ‘an indication that’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U131	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U132	And six. - last - just like the proposal of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. In Article 19.2.2, the word ‘Remark’ shall be replaced by the word ‘Remark’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U133	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U134	All the proposals have therefore been examined. Please support the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Penal Register” (No. 1229/Lp13) for the third, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U135	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Penal Register” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The law is passed. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Military Service Law’, third reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Raimonds Bergmanis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U136	Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting! Colleagues! The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption has discussed the draft law “Amendments to the Military Service Law” at its meeting on 7 April this year (No. 1178/Lp13) at third reading. Seven proposals were submitted to the third reading. Let me remind you a little bit of what this bill was about. First of all, the purpose of this draft law was to give soldiers the right to use service firearms, including without warning, if justified by the concept of the relevant operation, and special means in the course of special operations; to clarify the prerequisite for the removal of a soldier from office; and to establish the right for the commander of the National Armed Forces to temporarily grant other persons the right to wear military uniforms and to specify the use of terms indicating damage. But now with the proposals. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Calls for the exclusion of Article 3 of the draft law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U137	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U138	2. - also a proposal from the Legal Office. The third paragraph of Article 60.1 shall be called upon to read as follows: ‘The duration of the working day shall be determined by the military staff member and the leave shall be granted according to the same procedure as that of the soldier.’ Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U139	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U140	3. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Article 60.1 sixth paragraph provides for the exclusion of the words ‘or workwear’ and, in the eighth paragraph, the words ‘workwear or’. The Commission was also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U141	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U142	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is envisaged to replace the word ‘net’ by the word ‘include’. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U143	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U144	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This is the case for the military staff after the termination of their employment legal relationship, if they have successfully completed a certain training course, made an oath and did not reach the maximum age for service in the National Armed Forces Reserve. Partly supported and included 6. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U145	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U146	And this 6th. - Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - the proposal has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U147	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U148	And seven. - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Defence, Mrs Bodniece. The Ministry of Defence itself pointed out that it is not essential to introduce such changes that the amendments come into force in conjunction with the Law on the National Armed Forces and the Law on the Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions. The Commission was therefore not in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U149	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U150	Consequently, we have examined all seven proposals. I call on the Saeima to support the amendments to the Military Service Law at its third, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U151	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on amendments to the Military Service Law, third, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Draft law “Law on Management of the European Social Fund Plus Programme for the Reduction of Material Insecurity” for the programming period 2021-2027”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Vita Anda Steel. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U152	Hello, colleagues! We see the draft law “Law on management of the European Social Fund Plus programme for reducing material deprivation” for the programming period 2021-2027. The aim of the draft law is to ensure effective, transparent and consistent implementation of the European Social Fund Plus programme in Latvia. The programme is intended to reduce material deprivation and social exclusion of persons in low-income households by providing food and basic material assistance and social inclusion measures. The draft law shall lay down the responsibilities and rights of the authorities involved in the management and implementation of the programme, the selection of the partner organisations involved in its implementation and other conditions. Latvia has already provided support to the most deprived persons under the European Support Fund in the previous programming period 2014-2020. A new programming period and new regulations have entered into force since January 2021. They combine a number of European support instruments and offer the possibility of simplifying governance. That's why we need a new law. The draft law is aimed at simplifying the implementation of the support programme and reducing the administrative burden. It clearly distinguishes responsibility between the managing authority - the Ministry of Welfare - and the liaison body - the Society Integration Fund - and the audit authority - the Ministry of Finance. Partner organisations selected in the open selection will participate in the implementation of the programme. Non-governmental organisations, religious organisations, municipalities and their institutions will be able to qualify for their role. The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has called for this draft law to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U153	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Law on Management of the European Social Fund Plus Programme for Reducing Material Insecurity” ( 2021-2027)! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U154	The Commission supported the draft law at first reading. I call on Members to support the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U155	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the draft law at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U156	The deadline for proposals - one week - 28 April.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U157	So the deadline for the proposals is 28 April. And the examination?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U158	At the meeting on 5 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U159	And consideration at the sitting on 5 May. Thank you. Draft law “Amendment to the Law “On the Time of Introduction of the Renewed Civil Law of the Republic of Latvia, the Entry into Force and Application of Part of the Law on the Rights of Heritage and the Rights of Cases”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Liva Kreituse. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U160	Hello, colleagues! The Legal Commission has examined at first reading the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Time and Procedure of Entry into Force of the Civil Law of the Renewed Republic of Latvia, Rights of Heritage and Rights of Cases” (No. 1392/Lp13). The purpose of the draft law is to prevent the continued existence of shared property in the case of orphans' property or in the case of the orphan's case between the state and the municipality, strengthening the principle of unity of land and construction, enshrined in the Civil Law. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U161	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Time and Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of the Renewed Civil Law of the Republic of Latvia 1937, Rights of Heritage and Rights of Cases”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U162	The deadline for proposals is one month, i.e. 21 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U163	Thank you. Deadline for proposals 21 May this year. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Expropriation of Public Property”, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Regina Ločmele. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U164	Hello, colleagues! Work started on the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Expropriation of Public Property” (No. 1384/Lp13). By decision of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Justice, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, has prepared an amendment to the Law on the Expropriation of Public Property in order to establish that the transfer (sale) of immovable property does not require the authorisation of the Cabinet of Ministers and a decision on its disposal may be taken by the respective owner of immovable property. Also in case this is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers Regulations No. 364, namely, when an sworn bailiff takes a decision not to hold an auction of immovable property, as well as in the case where no application for the third auction has been submitted to the sworn bailiff, and the sworn bailiff concludes that it may be impossible to sell real estate in the third auction or the selling costs could exceed the amount of money obtained from the sale. The draft law clarifies the list of cases where the approval of the Cabinet of Ministers is not necessary for the adoption of such a decision. The foreseen date for entry into force of this amendment is 1 June of this year. The Commission of Public Administration and Local Government has examined and supported the draft law at first reading. I also ask the Saeima to support the bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U165	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Expropriation of Public Property”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U166	The deadline for tabling proposals for second reading, in the view of the Commission, is five days, i.e. until 26 April of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U167	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 26 April this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U168	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U169	Thank you for your report. Draft law on the Third Additional Protocol to the General Rules of Procedure of the World Postal Union, first reading. On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Member Krista Baumane. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U170	Dear President, Dear colleagues, We're working with... Now, now, now, now, now, excuse me. Okay. We are working on Law No. 1373/Lp13. The purpose of the draft law is to ratify the Third Additional Protocol to the General Rules of Procedure of the World Postal Union. The provisions contained in the Additional Protocol do not provide for new commitments for Latvia, but facilitate procedures for submitting proposals for amendments to Union documents. At its meeting on 6 April, the Foreign Affairs Commission supported the draft law. I also call on the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U171	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on the Third Additional Protocol to the General Rules of Procedure of the World Postal Union! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U172	I will propose a deadline of 10 days for the submission of proposals, i.e. before 1 May of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U173	Thank you. So the deadline for proposals is 1 May this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U174	Thus, at the meeting of the Legal Commission on 6 April, the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia”” (No. 1273/Lp13) before second reading. The draft law is related to the draft law “Amendments to the Commercial Law”, which requires public limited liability companies which issued nominal shares to submit a shareholder register in the Register of Enterprises, but public limited liability companies which issued bearer shares to submit information about major shareholders of the company to the Register of Enterprises. The draft law determines how information about shareholders must be taken into account and used to perform the functions of the Register of Enterprises. Six proposals have been received and examined by the Legal Commission for the second reading. 1. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. This and other proposals are linked to the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Public Private Partnership" (No. 1015/Lp13), which provides for the creation of a register of contracts which would include information on contracts concluded under the Public Private Partnership Law. In order not to duplicate this information in two registers, given that the Register of Enterprises currently holds this register of public-private partnership agreements, a proposal is made to align these laws. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U175	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U176	2. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U177	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U178	3. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U179	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U180	4. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. Associated with previous proposals, with the exclusion of transitional provisions. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U181	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U182	5. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. Partially supported, included 6. - The Legal Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U183	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U184	And six. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U185	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U186	The Legal Commission has supported the draft law for second reading. I also call on my colleagues to support the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U187	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U188	For a draft law, the deadline for the submission of proposals is two weeks, or 5 May of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U189	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 5 May this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” (No. 1275/Lp13), second reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Aldis Adamovičs. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U190	Colleagues! See the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” (No. 1275/Lp13). The draft law was designed to improve the legal regulation regarding the conditions for payment of benefits provided for in Article 19 of the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions in the event of injury, corruption or other health damage. The draft law for second reading has received six proposals from the committee. Practically all proposals, with the exception of proposal 5, provide for a variety of additional social guarantees for soldiers. 1. - The proposal of Prime Minister, Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U191	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U192	2. - The proposal of Prime Minister, Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U193	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U194	3. - The proposal of Prime Minister, Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U195	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U196	4. - The proposal of Prime Minister, Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U197	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U198	5. - the proposal of the Minister for Health, Daniel Pavlut. It is intended to provide psychological support for the staff of the Emergency Medical Assistance Service. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U199	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U200	And six. - The proposal of Prime Minister, Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. Supported by the Commission. Additional leave shall be provided for soldiers with families of minors or children with disabilities. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U201	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U202	We have therefore examined all six proposals. I invite you to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U203	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” (No. 1275/Lp13) at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U204	The deadline for the proposals for third reading is five days, 26 April this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U205	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 26 April this year. Draft law “Amendments to the State and Local Government... ‘(Interjection.) Excuse me... Yeah, one more. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” (No. 1395/Lp13), first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Aldis Adamovičs. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U206	The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” (No. 1395/Lp13). The purpose of the draft law is to clarify the Law on the Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions, by stating that the officials of the institutions of the Ministry of the Interior system and of the Administration of Prisons with special grades of service for the performance of official duties on public holidays receive a premium of 100 per cent of the hourly salary rate fixed by them; thus, the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 2 December 2021 in the case No. 2021-07-01 The Commission has supported the first reading of the draft law and has also asked for its urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U207	Please call me! Vote on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” (No. 1395/Lp13) recognition as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U208	I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U209	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the draft law at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U210	The time limit for the second reading of the proposals is five days - 26 April. And the sitting of the Saeima in the second, final, reading - 5 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U211	Thank you for your report. So the deadline for proposals is 26 April this year. And consideration by the Saeima on 5 May. Draft law “Amendments to the Energy Act”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Janina Kursīte. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U212	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Colleagues! The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined and prepared for the first reading draft law No. 1339/Lp13 - Amendments to the Energy Law. The draft law was designed because currently the system of proof of origin exists for electricity produced from renewable energy sources, but not for gas and heat. A system of proof of origin is necessary in order to be able to demonstrate the origin of gas from renewable sources as well as its traceability. The purpose of the draft law is to establish a system for issuing, circulating and controlling certificates of origin for gas from renewable sources. The adoption of such a law would take over the provisions of the directive on proofs of origin of gas and determine the body responsible for issuing certificates of origin of gas and the procedure by which such attestations are to be issued. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U213	Please call me! Vote on the draft law on "Amendments to the Energy Act" (No. Support for first reading 1339/Lp13) Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U214	May 5, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U215	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 5 May this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Detaining Procedures Act”, second reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U216	Dear colleagues, welcome again! Five proposals have been received for a second reading of the draft law. 1. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It concerns the service of documents and correspondence addressed to detainees. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U217	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U218	2. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. For the cases of the arrested. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U219	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U220	3. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It is envisaged that the correspondence of the arrested will be financed through state resources, but - as a simple shipping service. Such a regulation would apply in cases where the arrested person does not have the means to carry out the consignments himself. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U221	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U222	4. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It provides for the exclusion of the words ‘and telegrams’. The word ‘telegram’ is no longer used in practice. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U223	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U224	Yeah. When last time you sent a telegram to someone? 5. - exactly the same proposal. According to Section 28 of the Law, the words ‘and telegrams’ are excluded. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U225	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U226	Consequently, all proposals in the draft law have been examined. I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U227	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the law on detention procedures” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U228	The deadline for submitting proposals is 5 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U229	So the deadline for proposals is 5 May this year. Thank you. Draft law “Amendments to the Education Act”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Ilga Šuplinska. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U230	Hello! Lobby dyna! Oh, my God! In the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” (No. 1036/Lp13). 24 proposals have been received for the second reading. Just two comments... Two things are very important in this draft law. The first case has been incorporated in the context of the accreditation of an educational establishment, which is the so-called cyclical accreditation... The second case - attention is paid to the quality of the education program already in the licensing process. And maybe the third is the factor that matters in higher education... This is due to the fact that if the alignment of documents at this point has been carried out only by an academic centre, then universities themselves will be able to perform in a certain manner. This is certainly an amendment that universities have been waiting for a very long time. 1. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. This provides for the clarification in Article 1 of the concept of ‘accreditation of an educational establishment’ by providing that it refers to a ‘regular evaluation of the quality of the activities of an educational establishment by granting the right to issue a nationally recognised educational document on the acquisition of education corresponding to a specific educational programme’. In the Commission, the proposal is supported by changing the numbering of the following paragraphs accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U231	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U232	2. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It is envisaged to exclude from the Education Act an explanation of the accreditation process of the education process as it defines a new content. This is the accreditation of this cyclical institution. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U233	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U234	3. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Advanced Explanation... The words ‘licensing an educational programme’ in Article 1(11) of the Law... And a new content has been added here, namely that quality assessment is included. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U235	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U236	4. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. It provides for the expression of the second and third sentences of the second paragraph of Article 8: ‘Pre-school and general basic education programmes shall be implemented in the form of a form of presence between classes 1 and 6. General basic education programmes from grades 7 to 9 and general secondary education programmes shall be implemented in the form of non-public and distance education, in compliance with the criteria and procedure for implementing the general education programme established by the Cabinet of Ministers.’ The proposal is not supported by the Commission. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U237	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - the proposal submitted by the Minister of Education and Science, Anita Muižniece! Please vote mode! ( Milestones.) Please get the result! For - 21, for - 40, for - 8. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U238	5. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Provision shall be made for the second paragraph of Article 11 governing education documents to be worded as follows: ‘A state recognised education document shall be issued to an educational person who has received an education corresponding to a licensed educational programme at an accredited educational establishment.’ The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U239	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U240	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The first paragraph of Article 11.1, which was supported by the first reading of the draft law, provides that the essential nature of the alignment of these documents... it may be carried out by a university which has indicated and acquired this right in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Law on Higher Education. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U241	Members are in favour. ( The ring of noise.) I pray for silence in the room! We can't hear the rapporteur here because of that noise! Please, quiet in the room!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U242	7. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It is planned to supplement the third paragraph of Section 11.1 “Recognisation of Education Documents issued in Foreign Countries” with the second sentence in the following wording: “If an education document issued abroad or an academic degree awarded in Latvia does not meet the requirements of any education document to be issued in Latvia or is awarded in Latvia for an academic degree, the applicant shall be provided with a certificate on what additional conditions to be met in order to compare the education document issued abroad or the academic degree awarded in a foreign country with one of the educational documents issued in Latvia....” The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U243	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U244	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. The tenth part of Article 11.1 “Recognisation of documents of education issued in foreign countries in Latvia” is to be expressed in the following way... And this again concerns the alignment of documents. But what's very important? On the website of the Academic Information Centre a list of the universities which have acquired the right to carry out the examination of educational documents in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Law on Higher Education shall be made available on the Internet. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U245	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U246	9. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It is planned to supplement the first paragraph of Section 11.2 by providing that the register of educational documents issued in foreign countries shall record information on each educational document issued in foreign countries (with the exception of evidence of non-formal education) and the Academic Information Centre or higher education institution shall, on the basis of Article 11.1 of this Law, carry out its examination and issue a certificate on what educational document or academic degree it corresponds to or is comparable to. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U247	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U248	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It is planned to supplement the second paragraph of Article 11.2 by providing that the register of educational documents issued in foreign countries is an integral part of the State Education Information System and is kept by the Academic Information Centre and checked by the university. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U249	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U250	11. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It is envisaged to exclude the reference in the fourth paragraph of Article 11.2 (Article 2 of the draft law) at first reading. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U251	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U252	12. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Article 14(8) provides for the exclusion of the words ‘and of any other body defined by this Law’. This means that the Cabinet of Ministers is granted a delegation to determine only the procedure for the registration and accreditation of educational institutions and not other institutions specified in this Law, as has been the case so far, including extraordinary accreditation and withdrawal of accreditation. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U253	Let's start a debate. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U254	Hello, colleagues! Let me say right away that I will not call for this proposal to be supported. I would like to talk about one problem that has been highlighted by looking at the amendments that are contained in this law in a broader context. So, as the rapporteur has already said, we are trying to replace the accreditation of educational programmes with the accreditation of educational institutions in substance. And this proposal, 12, is about the right and duty of the Cabinet of Ministers to define all these accreditation procedures for these institutions. At the same time, behind the amendment of this law... Paragraph 2, which has now been approved... This meant that we would refuse the accreditation of programmes as such. The term “programme accreditation” is removed from the law. This week, in the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, when looking at the issue of colleges, we were faced with one problem which is linked to one particular educational institution, but I would allow for a similar type of exception for others as well. This is about the National Agency for Social Inclusion and the College under its authority, where practically everything that is needed by people with different types of disabilities is concentrated under one roof. So there are both rehabilitation measures, medical measures, college level education and Jurmala vocational secondary school, which also provides vocational education for people with these disorders. And there's this roof structure, this integration agency is, let's say, so massive that it's not really rational to accredit all the agencies as such just because there's college under it. Perhaps, in such situations, you should keep open some exceptional case of accreditation of a program or some narrower unit... bottom... Under this massive body. This National Agency for Social Inclusion is a good example - as it is, and I think it would be pointless, there would not be such a rational core to try to mix this well-developed system with what is there in this sector. But then this point about... this case, which is now being referred to in this proposal 12... In essence, I hope that the Cabinet, when it will form this accreditation procedure, will leave these bowls open if they are able to do so in accordance with the law. If not, for the third reading, we need to think about how to leave the door open so that institutions of this kind can be accredited and that programmes that are of sufficient quality there... because the quality criterion nobody is going to take off... so that they can continue to exist. That is the problem that I wanted to bring to your attention, colleagues. For the third reading, I think a solution needs to be found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U255	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U256	On behalf of the Commission, I would just like to remind you that the proposal was supported, and in response to what Mr Wuzana said, it is indeed a debate, and certainly it must be continued when these amendments to the law are examined as well. In my view, there is a different position of salt. I'll say right away that when you look at how the college system has been built in Latvia (Interview.) ... I am not told (Interface: ‘... not heard.’ )... Well, if you can't hear it, then I'm saying... I will just say that both the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Education and Science have different structures and these are not in the Ministry of Welfare. And by continuing the proposals. 13. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Provision shall be made for the wording of Article 14(11) to read as follows: ‘sets out the procedure for the authorisation and cancellation of educational programmes’. This excludes the current regulation on accreditation of educational programmes. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U257	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U258	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Article 14, paragraph 33, shall be worded as follows: ‘sets out the procedures for national tests in educational programmes carried out by accredited educational establishments’. The edit has been clarified. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U259	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U260	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Paragraph Three(7) of Article 20 of the Law clarifies the competence of the Education Quality Service by stating that in accordance with the procedure established by the Cabinet of Ministers: “(a) accredits general education institutions and vocational education institutions (except universities and colleges), (b) evaluates professional activities of heads of educational institutions (except universities and colleges) when assessing the quality of management of an education institution”. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U261	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U262	16. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. In view of the fact that accreditation of educational programmes is no longer provided for, the proposal provides for the wording of the third paragraph of Article 33 establishing educational programmes: "The accreditation of an educational establishment shall assess the quality of its activities, including the implementation of educational programmes. ....’ The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U263	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U264	17. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Given that accreditation of educational programmes is no longer provided for, the proposal provides for the wording of the second paragraph of Article 35, which provides for the evaluation of the quality of education, as follows: "The acquisition of education corresponding to educational programmes licensed by accredited educational institutions shall end with national tests." The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U265	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U266	18. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It is planned to supplement Article 36 with the fourth paragraph: “The licensing of educational programmes shall be organised in accordance with the price list of paid services approved by the Cabinet of Ministers.” There have been discussions about this in the Commission, but also in the vote... This proposal is supported. ( Intercretion: Vote!) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U267	Members call for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 18. - The proposal submitted by the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 46, for - 4, for - 13. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U268	19. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. In view of the fact that accreditation of educational programmes is no longer provided for, the proposal provides for the exclusion of the words ‘and accredited’ from Article 39 of the register of educational programmes. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U269	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U270	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It is envisaged to supplement Article 47, which sets out programmes of interest education with a fifth paragraph, in the following wording: “The educational institution may offer to learn at a distance its programme of interest education for the Latvian language, Latvian history and culture, Latvian nature and geography also for persons living outside Latvia.” The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U271	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U272	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. In view of the fact that accreditation of educational programmes is no longer provided for, the proposal provides for the wording of the first paragraph of Article 49 concerning the acquisition of education and professional qualifications for teachers and the development of professional competences, as follows: ‘The education required for the work of the teacher shall be obtained at accredited educational establishments...’. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U273	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U274	22. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. In view of the fact that accreditation of educational programmes is no longer provided for, the second sentence of the second paragraph of Article 59 determining the sources of funding for the education system shall read as follows:... in particular, the State participates in the financing of salaries of teachers of private educational institutions in accordance with the procedure established by the Cabinet of Ministers, provided that all programmes of these institutions have passed the licensing process. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U275	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U276	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Provision is made for the exclusion of Article 3 of the draft law - a point in the transitional provisions - which has become obsolete in the context of the draft law. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U277	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U278	24. - a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science, Anita Muižniece. Additions to point 98 of the transitional provisions are foreseen. This is due to the previously unsupported restriction in the commission, which would apply to Classes 1-6 - that they do not have the possibility to deliver certain subjects remotely. The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U279	Members agree. And you can't vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U280	We have examined all 24 proposals. Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U281	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U282	As decided by the Education, Culture and Science Commission, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 10 working days, i.e. until 6 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U283	Thank you. So the deadline for proposals is 6 May this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Ilga Šuplinska. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U284	The Commission for Education, Culture and Science examined draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education” (No. 1037/Lp13) for second reading. 13 proposals have been received for the second reading. 1. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. The second sentence of the second paragraph of Article 43 provides for the exclusion of the words ‘and the head of the rector's office’ and the third sentence. In general, this is an amendment to the law, which in principle determines the competence of the rectors. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U285	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U286	2. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. The second paragraph of Article 55 shall be excluded. A part of the regulation, which included not less than 250 full-time students in academic study programmes (Bachelor, Master and Doctoral programmes), is excluded. It has, in principle, been a formal rule, supplemented from year to year by a bureaucratic procedure, and we are now finally excluding it from the law. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U287	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U288	3. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Provision shall be made for a series of exclusions in the second paragraph of Article 55.1: paragraphs 2, 3, 4, 5, 6... In paragraph 8, one specific word. What does that mean in practice? This means that the joint study programmes are subject to changes in eligibility conditions and a number of conditions that have existed so far have been simplified. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U289	Members are in favour. ( The drug is noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U290	4. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Provision shall be made for supplementing point 7 of the second paragraph of Article 55.1 with regulation as follows: ‘Where a joint study programme is established with a foreign partner institution, the degree or professional qualification to be obtained in studies shall be determined in accordance with the principles common to the European Higher Education Area, including compliance with the European Qualifications Framework.’ The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U291	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U292	5. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It is envisaged to exclude the second and third sentences of the third paragraph of Article 55.1, which means that the implementation of the joint programme is subject to a licence, but the regulation providing that the terms and conditions of issue of the licence are determined by the Cabinet of Ministers is deleted. The licensing arrangements have been simplified. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U293	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U294	6. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. In Article 55.1, fourth paragraph, the words ‘part of a joint study programme’ shall be replaced by ‘part of a joint study programme’. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U295	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U296	7. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Provides for the fifth paragraph of Article 55.1 ‘Joint study programme’ to read as follows:... If the partner institution of the Latvian University has carried out accreditation and evaluation of the joint study programme in Latvia or abroad, it is respected in principle also in Latvia by submitting this information to the Academic Information Centre. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U297	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U298	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Article 55.1 seventh paragraph 1 provides for the addition of the words ‘and university consortium’ after the word ‘partnership’, the second sentence of paragraph 1 and the addition of paragraph 3 as follows: ‘double diploma for higher education’. This presupposes, in principle, that the acquisition of such a diploma is also possible in a university consortium. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U299	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U300	9. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It is planned to express the eighth part of Article 55.1 “Joint Study Programme” in a new version, namely, to ensure the establishment and implementation of joint study programmes, the Cabinet of Ministers establishes certain requirements related to the procedure of licensing rules: the scope of the study programme to be implemented by the partner institutions, the requirements for the results of studies, the joint diploma, as well as the conditions necessary for the provision of study programmes. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U301	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U302	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Provision is made for the addition of a ninth paragraph of Article 55.1 on the Joint Study Programme, defining the definition of a dual diploma as a diploma for the acquisition of a joint study programme issued by each of the partner institutions. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U303	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U304	11. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It is planned to supplement the third paragraph of Article 58 “Final Tests of Studies and State Tests” with a sentence, stating that the original of the qualification work, the bachelor, the master and the promotion work defended shall be kept by the university for not less than 10 years, but its electronic version shall be kept on a permanent basis. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U305	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U306	12. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Technical proposal clarifying the numbering of the transitional provision supported at first reading. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U307	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U308	13. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. A new transitional provision shall be established providing that the Cabinet of Ministers shall issue until 30 June 2022 the regulations referred to in Article 55.1 of this Law, which shall enter into force on 1 January 2023. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U309	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U310	All 13 proposals submitted have been examined. Please support this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U311	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U312	10 working days, that's 6 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U313	Thank you. So the deadline for proposals is 6 May this year. Dear colleagues, On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Financing of National Defence”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U314	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, As I mentioned in the morning, today we will see the draft law “Amendments to the National Defence Financing Act” at the second, final reading. The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission dealt with this at second reading. Five proposals have been received. There were, in fact, three, but we made two proposals from the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, specifying what had come in, and partly supporting what had come into being included in the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission's proposals. But these are really clarification issues. 1. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. We partly supported and included 3. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U315	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U316	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Also partially supported, included 3. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U317	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U318	3. - what I mentioned - the famous proposal from the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. The Commission was, of course, in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U319	Let's start a debate. Name Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Defence Baiba Blādniece. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U320	Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting! Honourable Members! Colleagues! The proposal that has been tabled clarifies and explains the reasons why this law is here on your agenda, why it is urgent, which has changed in the geopolitical context, because in recent years, two per cent of gross domestic product has been allocated to protection... and why we need to anticipate the development of the armed forces much faster. First of all, I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the safe women in Latvia who met at the Russian Embassy in Riga yesterday to protest against the crimes of the Russian army in Ukraine, the rape of Ukrainian women and all the atrocities committed by the Russian army in the occupied territories. The opposition action at the Russian Embassy has obviously been effective, because the Russian Embassy in Riga has spread its opinion today, expressing great concern that such action could hurt young children, whom mothers have taken to the park. I would very much like to ask the Russian Embassy and the Russian Government, which it represents, first of all to prevent small children in Ukraine from dying on Russian military flights, and immediately to withdraw troops from all occupied areas of Ukraine, so that Ukrainian mothers can also take their children to the Ukraine Park, worried only about a creative protest campaign, not that Russian soldiers will rape them in front of the children's eyes. When Russia stops killing civilians in Ukraine, stops rape, murdering and robbing Ukraine, withdraws its troops, then maybe it will also be possible to talk about forms of protest action in Riga and - whether they do or do not cause injury to young children. Thank you once again to the brave women of Latvia, but the war and the horrors that we observe in Ukraine have changed our world and will affect us in different ways in Latvia and Europe... in the coming years. In the military sphere, too, we have had to look at how we understand military risks. For many years we have been preparing for the "green man" and hybrid war scenarios, but now, although the risks previously identified have not completely disappeared, we are faced with a reality that could rarely have been imagined a few months ago. We are faced with a war that seemed impossible in today’s world. That war is the case with these countries. The horrors of the Second World War have recovered and become reality in Latvia, in the geopolitical situation of Latvia. That is what the proposal is about. This leads us to a fundamental review of how we think about national defence. This calls for a fundamental review of why we need to increase funding for national defence. We understand that this is a war that comes into every house and every family, and that is exactly the kind of war that we have to prepare for. We must not think that war is something that will only be dealt with by professionals, while all of us will be able to watch the professionals and NATO forces stand by. Unfortunately, everything is much more complex, and the risk of military danger applies to every Latvian family and every Latvian citizen. We must understand this and, accordingly, prepare for war. Together, we all have a great deal of work to do, both in terms of changing, improving civil protection systems, and also in terms of increasing military capabilities. The Ukrainian people and the armed forces are currently heroically fighting against the Russian occupations, and their struggle gives us time and opportunity to prepare ourselves so that nothing similar can happen on the land of Latvia. Ukraine now gives us time and opportunity to improve and strengthen our defence and military capabilities, to show to Russia and our partners in NATO and neighbouring countries that Latvians are as strong as Ukrainians. The Latvians will be as fierce, as heroic, and the Latvians will never allow on their land the atrocities that the Russian army is committing in Ukraine. It's our irony commitment. Today's vote, and also the proposal tabled, which accurately reflects the geopolitical situation, is what we are calling for, and we thank all those who are together and for Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U321	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U322	Thank you, Baiba, for a broad explanation of the proposal 3. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U323	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U324	4. - also a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. The Commission was also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U325	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U326	Proposal No 4 comes from proposal No 5, which comes from a member of the Prime Minister, the Minister of Defence, Dr. Arta Pabrika... Dr. Partly supported, included 4. - the Commission's proposal. ( Internoint.) Medicines cause noise.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U327	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U328	Partially supported, included 4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U329	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U330	Thank you. We have therefore examined all five proposals examined by the Commission and we will have to vote on the draft law at second, final, reading. This draft law was supported by the Commission. I also call on you to support this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U331	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the State Defence Financing Law” in the second, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. On the agenda - consideration of Members' requests. Opinion of the Appeals Board Member Viktors Valaiņa, Ulda Augulis, Edgars Tatars, Didžas Šmita, Armands Krauze, Jānis Vucanas, Māra Kučinska, Gundars Dauges, Janīna Jalinska, Jānis Dūklavs’ request to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “How effective and timely Latvia is meeting the sanctions set by the European Union against the oligarchs and propaganda closer to V. Putin”. On behalf of the Commission, Ivars Puga, Member. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U332	Hello, colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! The inquiry panel examined the request made by Members Viktors Valaiņa, Ulda Augulis, Edgars Tatars, Didžas Šmita, Armands Krauze, Jānis Vucans, Māra Kučinska, Gundars Dauges, Janīna Jalinska, Jānis Dūklavs to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “How effective and timely Latvia is meeting the sanctions imposed by the European Union against oligarchs and propaganda closer to V. Putin” (No. 78/P13). By voting in favour of two, eight against, one abstention and three Members, the Commission recognises that the request made by Members should be rejected, as the amendments to the Citizenship Act that have just been adopted are also an answer and a motivation for this decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U333	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U334	Very respectful Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, Although all kinds of decisions have been made, this specific request was... I must also tell you about the background in which the request was made. Immediately after the Russian invasion in Ukraine, a number of sanctions were adopted. A lot of sanctions! And everyone needs to understand that it only makes sense for sanctions if they are respected by someone. In particular, we saw its uniform sanctions. A number of countries have automatically known what to do. In Latvia, at the beginning of March, we were able to observe that journalists... Colleagues, they were not you, they were journalists who drew attention to the fact that a number of properties are still not authorised. They were journalists who pointed out that Latvia was not sufficiently active in introducing sanctions. What happened then? Then, in the best traditions of Latvia, a public discussion of politicians was held on the Twitter about who is responsible for introducing sanctions. One drew attention to one direction, the other drew attention to the other direction, he was responsible for it, the other was not responsible for it. At the end of the day, sanctions were imposed, but our politicians, leading politicians, were arguing about who would deal with it. That was the situation at a time when we prepared this request. We deliberately prepared the request for the Prime Minister so that the Prime Minister then also indicates who is the responsible minister, who should take responsibility for controlling sanctions. On leaving it, we came to the fact that the Minister of Justice Bordāns is the responsible person in Latvia who is responsible for introducing sanctions and controlling their execution. Colleagues, if we look at how this process has also been carried out in the Committee on Petitions, we also heard the Ministry of Foreign Affairs... the statement that some are coordinating, the others are implementing. Well, I still feel that this is a peculiar feeling that there is no one who really has such a particular responsibility. We are facing situations where we are showing again... shows each other with a finger, who then really is the chief responsibility for sanctions. One is to go with public statements, but above all, to make them work effectively. What concerns me, my fellow Members, and also my... other colleagues, when we discuss this issue in the group after the committee meeting - that we all agree on the imposition of sanctions, but if we look at what is happening in our ports... These public statements about it... International Media... Bloomberg reports fuel mixtures that are mixed... Latvian blend. The first reaction from our ministers showed that they have no idea what is happening in their controlled areas, for which they have assumed full responsibility. In the first days, everyone looked at the shoulders of the publication. One minister said one, the other one said the other. Really, there was no point in what was happening there. With two days of delay, we were only told that it would prove to be a common practice. Is that normal? Colleagues, today a number of politicians are talking about how to support Ukraine. At the same time, what the Ukrainians demand... Ukrainians demand to stop buying Russian fuel, but what we see... In Latvian ports this fuel is calmly mixed in ships, it is called a Latvian mixture, and trade takes place. And that's happening in our ports! Colleagues, for this Request Commission... I am just talking about one thing, but there are other things. Well, for example, our ports are peacefully transporting various products not only in the direction of Russia to Europe or to the rest of the world, but also from the rest of the world to Russia, for example, there is such aluminium oxide. Easy, easy, easy, easy. Let's see where aluminium oxide is used. Aluminium oxide is used in the production of body armour as well as in the armour of vehicles and combat aircraft, as well as in the production of bulletproof glass and non-conducting rocket bombs and projectiles. This substance is imported into Latvia, loaded in Russian wagons and transported to Russia. And it happens today in Latvia, colleagues! This is happening today. And, more importantly, let's go further, look at where that aluminium oxide comes from. Aluminium oxide brings from the plant Rusal. Who is the owner of this plant? Certainly a noble citizen at the moment, but quite a short time ago, there was such a citizen, Oleg Deripaska, who is a well-known businessman, oligarch, actually sanctioned, who simply rewritten the company... and now the peaceful production of a company based in Ireland is transferred through the port of Latvia to Russia. These are the raw materials necessary for military production, which are transported peacefully through our ports. If we look at volumes - they are not going down, all this is going on. We are talking about assistance to Ukraine. If, in this way, we are helping Ukraine, colleagues, forgive me, I think we are not finally helping. If we look at the amount of money - more than EUR 200 million - only fuel transactions took place in Ventspils in March. It's not about February or something else, it's about March, after the beginning of the war. The cargos that help Russia with its arms are also carried through our ports. Colleagues, I would call at least on those who are doing so to say that with the control of sanctions coming with various initiatives that need to be restricted... As the head of the commission said here, the passport should be taken away... We can already do this, but the economic figures and the real freight movement show that we are unfortunately only in words and not in actions to comply with these sanctions. Colleagues, in my opinion, it is precisely the events after the committee meeting that have already shown that we have not done our homework to the end. ( Internouncing call.) And the worst thing is that our politicians unfortunately do not know what happens in Latvia, what happens on their own controlled farm. This is the biggest problem. Any publication (I am referring to publicly available information)... any of these publications... It took several days for the ministers to understand what they were talking about while studying, to give some meaningful answers about what was going on on their farm. Question... I am talking today about things that have been said, but how many things are there that have not yet been said? Do we really have the confidence that everyone knows everything about what is happening in the Latvian economy, in our economy, and how does this affect the situation in Ukraine? In my opinion, no, that is why this request is to be supported. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U335	Please, Mr. Pugas, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U336	On behalf of the Commission, it is recalled that this request was rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U337	Please call me! We will vote for a Member Viktors Valaiņa, Ulda Augulis, Edgars Tatars, Didžas Šmita, Armands Krauze, Jānis Vucanas, Māra Kučinska, Gundars Dauges, Janīna Jalinska, Jānis Dūklavs' request to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš "How effective and timely Latvia fulfils the sanctions imposed by the European Union against oligarchs and propagandists closer to V. Putin"! Please vote mode! ( Milestones.) Please get the result! No, 19, no, 47, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The request is rejected. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that the Saeima Bureau has received an application from Members Jura Pūce, Alda Adamoviča, Krišjānis Feldmana, Rihards Kola and Janina Course to continue the meeting of the Saeima on 21 April until the examination of all items on the agenda. Do Members have objections? ( Insights: “There is no objection! ” ) There is no objection. ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ ) Please call us! ( Milestones.) Vote on Members' application to proceed with the Saeima sitting (Inter-Charter) without interruption until all items on the agenda have been dealt with. Please vote mode! Please get the result! ( Impressions: “The next sitting... ( See the result.) For - 60, for - 17, for - 1. So we're going on with Member Viktoras Valaiņa. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) ... Please, please! Two items remain on the agenda. We can see Members Viktors Valaiņa, Māra Kučinska, Ulda Augulis, Janina Jalinska, Gundars Dauges, Raimonds Bergmanis, Jānis Vacāns, Didžas Šmita, Edgars Tatars, Māra Možvillo Minister for Agriculture Kaspars Gerhards “On disclosure of misleading information to the public regarding the availability of raw materials for production”. On behalf of the Commission, Ivars Puga, Member. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U338	The request made by Member Viktoras Valaiņa, Māra Kučinska, Ulda Augulis, Janina Jalinska, Gundars Kaite, Raimonds Bergmanis, Jānis Vacāns, Didžas Šmita, Edgars Tauka and Māra Možvillo, Minister for Agriculture Kaspars Gerhards, “On disclosure of misleading information to the public regarding the availability of raw materials for production” (No. 79/P13). By voting in favour of one, eight against, one abstention and three Members, the Commission acknowledged that Members' request should be rejected because, in response to the question whether the Ministry of Agriculture has identified the situation with regard to the raw materials required for production in the agricultural sector, Minister Kaspars Gerhards, who explained the situation at the meeting of the Commission, convinced the Commission that the situation is under control and that the industry has and will have the necessary raw materials.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U339	Thank you for your report. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U340	Highly respected colleagues! I couldn't stop here... not to talk today, because our honourable minister informed the Commission on the situation of mineral fertilisers, plant protection products and how much the Ministry of Agriculture has done to support our farmers. This request was made as a response to the statements made by the Minister for Agriculture, Mr Gerhard, in the public space that Latvian farmers are fully equipped with all the necessary raw materials, there is absolutely no crisis situation and there is no reason for concern. ( Insight: “Do not... “ However, honourable colleagues, following Minister Gerhard’s announcement, we were faced with a strong uproar by a large number of farmers (and not just individual farmers, but also farmers’ organisations) about this issue. I very much hoped that the Minister would come to the Commission and be able to comfort farmers and farmers for whom this issue is of great importance. However, according to the Minister,... What I also honestly said at the meeting of the committee: If the minister says so, I have to believe in it. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) , but I would also like to ask industry experts and non-governmental organisations, including farmers, whether this is really the case, as the Minister says. What the Minister said, for example, about the availability of phosphorus and potassium fertilisers in autumn for sowing in August and September... At present, they are not available to any of the companies named by the Minister - none! ‘ In the case of LATRAPS, however, the manufacturer was unable to provide an appropriate quality certificate and the fertiliser contains heavy metals that are harmful to human health. Moreover, a large part of the European Union's fertiliser plants are authorised because they are owned quite simply by Russians. We also have such here in Latvia. As regards the interest rates on credit, their partial redemption programme is usually paid to farmers each year in December with an application only in September. This does not in any way solve the cash flow problems directly for the sowing period in August. Moreover, in part of this programme money is taken from the European Union, not from the national budget, and thus reduces the already reduced European Union money for the agricultural development envelopes, which in this programming period is 30 percent less than in the previous period. Unfortunately, the Minister did not mention this. The demand for development money is huge, and in the last round... more than EUR 100 million is already lacking. Colleagues, here we need to mention that the plants based in the European Union before every... First of all, it produces fertilisers for its internal market and then only sells surpluses in small quantities to other countries of the European Union. If we look at this situation... Of course, there are a number of farmers who had provided everything before the war and who currently have no problems, but there are also a number of farmers who did not. And this situation is not easy for these farmers at the moment. If we look at these support instruments, I will allow myself to be quite critical here too, because we made a small calculation of what... The Minister also stated that the amount of money invested in support of farmers was very high. However, farmers sell their products not only in Latvia; it is an international commodity, stock exchange products, and we also have to compete with Germany, as well as with Poland and other countries where we produce the same food. We are looking at: in Poland, the agricultural sector is now - now! - the planned crisis support is between EUR 53 and 107 per hectare, for the next year in Latvia it is EUR 4.2 million... plus eight million - public budget money, which together will be directly... not more than EUR 5 per hectare. I could not say that such government support could be called powerful support. Colleagues, yes, I believe that the information given by the Minister at the meeting of the Commission was not correct. Perhaps the Minister was not aware of the reality of the market situation, but... The market situation has not improved and has become increasingly complex since the demand committee meeting. Support tools for Latvian farmers are currently vital. We see that already in supermarkets the volume of goods sold is decreasing... sales of goods and people are increasingly choosing the cheapest product. And at the moment of receiving these state aid, which is a grant from the state budget to farmers, producers (outside the foundations) who are in huge amounts in Germany, Poland... Our stores also get this product produced in Germany, Poland, ejecting our farmers' production. This is already happening today. And how will it all look in the autumn? Unfortunately, this will have a much more severe effect than it is today. I therefore call on you, my fellow Members, to support this request and thus to promote a more active involvement of ministers in this problem. Now we can see, just like the previous... many good words, but unfortunately, we do not see the result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U341	We are continuing the debate. The name of Member Eric Pucen. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U342	Hello, colleagues! Well, yes, the Minister did not quite say that. It happens if the advisors are from large farms and from high towers of the Ministry of Agriculture - those who do not see what is happening in Latvia's countryside. Soon we will see that fewer and fewer small and medium-sized farms will remain. We see that not only the dairy farmers, but also the poultry farmers, are alarmed because all the raw materials have become catastrophicly more expensive. When we talked to farmers, there were even some farmers who, when talking about mineral prices, said: “We are almost happy to sell them, not to grow them. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) This year, it will be grain because its prices have increased several times.” Well maybe the Minister should go much further into the support programme for small and medium-sized farmers rather than just talking to slogans. I hope that in the near future the government will understand this and come with proposals so that Latvia's countryside is not like a desert that is being wiped out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U343	I closed the debate. Please, Mr. Pugas, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U344	On behalf of the Commission, this specific request was rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U345	Please call me! We will vote for the Member Valaiņa, Kučinska, vegetable, Yalinska, Kauges, Bergmanis, Vucana, Smita, Tatara, Možvillo, Minister of Agriculture Kaspars Gerhards “On disclosure of misleading information to the public regarding the availability of raw materials for production”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 18, no, 46, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The request made by Members has been rejected. Member Ralfa Nemiro, Māra Mičerevska, Erika Pucena, Kaspars Ģirgena, Ramona Petraviča, Māra Možvillo, Edgars Tatara, Ulda Augulis, Didžas Šmita, Jānis Dūklavs, Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, request “On Stopting the Planning of Riga’s Territory”. The request shall be submitted by Member Ivars Puga on behalf of the Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U346	The Panel examined the request made by the Members Ralfa Nemiro, Māra Mičerevska, Ērika Pucena, Kaspars Ģirgena, Ramona Petraviča, Māra Možvillo, Edgars Tatara, Ulda Augulis, Didžas Šmits and Jānis Dūklavs to the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Arthur Plešs “On the Suspension of the Planning of the Territory of Riga” (No. 80/P13). When voting (four - in favour, eight - against, and one Member did not vote), the committee recognised that the request of Members should be rejected, because, as the Minister explained at the meeting of the committee, the purpose of the decision is not to stop the development of Riga city for an indefinite period, but to prevent the illegal and regulatory situation. In turn, the Riga Council is going to exercise its right under law and apply to the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U347	Thank you for your report. Let's start a debate. The name to Member Ralph Nemir. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U348	Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting! Thank you to the Chairman of the Panel on Petitions, Ivars Pugs, for setting out the course of the proceedings as they were in the Commission. There were, in fact, two cases in the Panel: one - a review of the legal arguments, and the other - were concerned with matters which were, in fact, political. We came up with a very important question, and that is the following. The request commission was reasoned... On the part of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, it was argued that the suspension of the site plan was also due to the fact that gambling was limited in reverse form, i.e. the designation of the areas where gambling is permitted and not the areas where gambling is prohibited. Applying very simple mathematics, which was also talked about by the Riga City Council Vice-President Vilnis Ķirsis, it is very simple to calculate which territories are those where gambling is allowed to be (The Hall of Noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) restricted and areas where they are not authorised. Currently, gambling in Riga is not intended to be completely prohibited, it is planned to restrict it in certain territories, as well as in four-star, five-star hotels. It is very important that the vice-president of Riga City Council also remembered what political promises the parties that went to the Riga City Council elections had committed to fulfil. Without political jealousy, I would like to say that the Riga City Council coalition, which is currently working, has tried to fulfill these promises. And of course - approving the territory's planning, limiting gambling. At the moment when the Minister comes and talks about legal arguments, I want to return to the very main aspect that is - we are now in the decision-making power. That is, it is a political body where we take political decisions. In particular, the Request Commission is represented... from Members of the Saeima, in fact from politicians. Politicians in this case can judge these legal arguments, but do they have a higher power over this issue if we are talking about conceptual decisions to restrict gambling? Why was the site plan closed overall? The answer is extremely simple. In the event that it is suspended in a part, that part should be indicated. And what could the VAR refer to in this part? Why is spatial planning halted? I think it would be quite difficult for the Minister to explain, because in fact, there was a goat slip outside. That is, it's gambling. And in this case put on a card the development of the entire territory of Riga (as opposed to what the Riga City Council has planned in the context of the influx of investments - both the influx of private investment and the influx of European Union funds) - it is too high a rate. So at the moment when it happens... Such a radical and drastic decision taken by the majority of the members at the Riga City Council, namely, to refer to the Constitutional Court in order to challenge the decision taken by the Minister... However, we need to be very critical. Colleagues! If the coalition of Riga City Council, which is in power at the moment, has indeed been strong enough and loud enough to express its argumentation to point out the damage that such a decision can cause... And in the Panel on Petitions, we heard the Minister speak with legal arguments. However, this is not acceptable, in my opinion, and we certainly need to think more broadly. One very important argument had also been raised, which will obviously be assessed in the Constitutional Court: is such a decision - to stop the overall development of Riga's territory - proportionate? The Court will certainly assess this question - whether this decision has been proportionate. It was possible to suspend the site in part, but not in full. The spatial planning was also carried out in coordination with citizens' associations; it is a news, a very positive news, because in this case... very often the population can express itself (Speaking noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) local desire - to include its interests in the spatial planning as a whole. By this decision of the Minister, it is simply deleted and all citizens are pushed aside. Second thing: Spilve meadows. Area where the industrial zone, park area, industrial zone, building area, other zone may be located. This can only be done at the moment if the relevant changes... with the same document... accepted. It is taken off the agenda. Let us not forget that the Northern Transmission has marked with red lines quite broad areas where no construction can take place, no development. That's why this question, too, is... the spatial planning is affected and limited. So in fact, in summary we come to three important aspects, which were mentioned by the Deputy Chairman of Riga City Council at the Request Commission, Mr Ķiršas, who pointed out that the work had been sufficiently extensive, ambitious. And at the moment when the Riga City Council was led by the temporary administration... At that time, one of the representatives of the temporary administration was the State Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, who could at that time touch the details of the spatial planning, which obviously... For example, it would be legally incorrect. Did that happen? No, it didn't happen. Consequently, the criticism that there are legal arguments here also does not stand criticism at the final stage. If we look at the cooperation between VARAM and Riga City Council, then we see that it has obviously been unsuccessful, quite unsuccessful, because until such a step, which is already a radical, extreme step, could not be achieved either. VARAM was able to cooperate with the thought, make adjustments and move forward, but... I have already mentioned to you, colleagues, at the very beginning why this does not happen. Because the goat's leg goes out! Because at the time when the justification has to be mentioned... then it would appear exactly the part which contains political decisions not to adopt such spatial planning. Colleagues! If we look at this practice, which the Minister has set up, we can see that it is not the first time. Ķekava has also made a decision on the development of its territory, and there is also an important question that... the Minister has once again objected. Again, gambling. Well, then, the question is: is this lobby not too intensive in the context of what rates are being imposed? And these are the interests of the people (local governments, our municipalities, want to make the decisions that are most relevant to the interests of the people in their territory). This is actually a direction that is unacceptable. If some other municipalities take similar action in the future and we do not support this request at the moment, then what happens next? Every time we have a similar situation to come back to, and... I look forward to the support of my colleagues... we will be writing back to the Request Commission, and this will be a question again, once again, to be looked at by the Request Commission, and we will have to debate it again here in the Saeima sitting. Once again, therefore, a very important aspect of political decision-making. Several parties represented in this parliament are also represented in the Riga City Council coalition, and the promises made at national level were similar to those made by these politicians, candidates for positions when they were candidates for the Riga City Council elections. So it seems suspicious... Has the gambling lobby not been infiltrated in other minds (already here in Parliament) if these fundamental promises are changed? Colleagues! We can always find legal arguments, the law can be interpreted in one direction or another. But if we look at the institution in which we are located, there is still a need to make a political decision. In my opinion, ministers that are vulnerable are not worthy of their post. And if we come to situations that fail to take into account the interests of citizens, that is worrying. Riga is the largest municipality. The biggest economic activity is concentrated in Riga. There is a port in Riga, the development of which is related to spatial planning, and if the spatial planning is not taken into account and approved, extremely large investments may also pass through the transit sector. Colleagues! The final step, the decision that has now been taken, is very, very important; in the context of proportionality, it will certainly be assessed. If we look at this practice, then I really call for it to stop, because otherwise we will create totally unacceptable precedents. There is a municipality in Salaspils, which has also carried out this type of site review, marking some places that might be permitted for gambling. But if we are talking about Riga, then they have been political promises. I think it is the honour of every politician to keep them to the end and to decide on them accordingly. At the moment, I call for support to be given to the demand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U349	The debate is continued by Member Edgars Tavars. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U350	Dear President, Dear colleagues, We have read how many Rigans will have to pay for every child for lunch at school - one to two euros a day... one child. ( Interface: “But wait, it’s not on this subject!” ) That is the subject of respectable Unity! This is your most direct responsibility. In your work you are on one side, in words - on the other. We see, among other things, Unity, not only Development/About! under the leadership of an initial restart, that currently in Riga is getting worse, even worse than in previous times. We're reading the news right now... Yes. (Laughter) We read (Applause) ... We can read the news right now (Interface: “Stop you, are you? ” )... We can read the news that immediately Vilnius will be ahead of Riga. Colleagues, seriously! Mr Latkovsky, look in the mirror when you ask this question for the second time, and then you will understand what we are talking about here, from this troop, in the end. If we are talking about our capital development plan - that is the main document, colleagues. If we do not think about how Riga should develop, how to start earning, then they will not be one to two euros, they will be all four euros per day, which parents will pay for eating the child. Of course, Vilnius is about to miss us. Already now many from Saldus, Liepaja, Kuldīga, Ventspils... of many regions are more proud of belonging to their own region than belonging to the capital. In my opinion, this demand is in the right place, it is the second step. The first thing that was needed was that the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development had to leave his post, because it is believed that instead of the Ministry helping the capital, the whole country... Like a tow, like a locomotives... are lobbying only the interests of one sector - the interests of one sector! - not about the whole country and our capital, about the urban population as a whole. ( Interface: “There is no request... “ That’s what my colleagues are! So that I explicitly call for this request to be supported. ( Internouncing call.) I call for support for us to think about our capital, for development to take place in the capital, for planning to take place, for what has been thought and planned by entrepreneurs, investors. So please, my colleague, let's think further, not just about your political... let's think about our capital and Riga citizens, or about what has happened or how the coalition has broken down in Riga. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U351	I closed the debate. ( Intercribing: “ Viktor... “ What else? Oh, Victor Valainis. Sorry, the name of Member Viktor Valain. ( The drug is noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U352	Colleagues (The Hall Noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) , I call all to be nevertheless self - control ( The Hall laughter.) and understand - I'll still be able to climb this platform twice a hundred times today. We can also make sure that. But I would like to thank Mr Nemir for this request very seriously: for this initiative at all, to submit such a request. It is very important to recall what did not sound at the previous sitting of the Saeima, when the request for a mission to Mr Ples was also addressed. Looking at a request of a similar nature for the Minister for the second time, there is one very important nuance that the Minister has always stressed, and here it remains as though it has not been fully highlighted. The Minister has acted with some interest, but such a decision must be based on opinions. In the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development (although the Minister, I can make a mistake, there are some 10 advisers) no one is competent on these issues. Nobody! Such a decision shall require the opinion of the competent authority. And this competent institution is the Ministry of Finance. In all these cases, so to say Development/About! is not alone, together with them there is the New Unity, and it is the Ministry of Finance, which essentially gave the green light to stop not only this plan, but also Ķekava's plan. It is the Ministry of Finance which has competence over these issues. I see Mr Zakatistova - as if it were not for you, but in fact the most relevant, because it is the Ministry of Finance, the New Unity, that is the joint decision taken by Mr Pleis, that suspends this plan. It therefore seems rather deaf that the Prime Minister is meeting Mr Pleis and is trying to convince him that this was not right. We could read it all in the public space. Prime Minister is angry about the influence of the gambling lobby on the minister, he suspects... on the basis of an opinion issued by the New Unity itself. And unfortunately, no one thinks it would be important to talk about this, so it is very good that such a request has been made, there is an opportunity to remind everyone from this platform once again, so that everyone understands - Development/About! is not alone in this story, they have great allies, only those allies are hiding - hiding behind the new minister's back. And that is the New Unity that gave rise to the suspension of this plan. Whatever politicians say, who from the New Unity are both in the Riga City Council and elsewhere, they should also look at what is really happening in their home. The main opinion was delivered by the Ministry headed by Mr Reira. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U353	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U354	Colleagues, as I said earlier, rejected this request from Members at the commission meeting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U355	Please call me! We will vote for the Member Nemiro, Mičerevska, Pucena, Ģirgena, Petraviča, Možvillo, Tagara, Augula, Šmita, Dūklava's request to the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Arthur Pleš "On Stopting the Planning of Riga Territory"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 20, for - 46, for - 1. The request made by Members has been rejected. Dear colleagues, We have reviewed the agenda for the sitting of the Saeima on 21 April. In 10 minutes, we will continue to work on the agenda for the 7 April meeting. So 10 minutes. I ask for Members' presence regime. Name of member of the Saeima, Inese Voika, to read the results.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U356	Colleagues! Not registered: Arvils Asheradens, Aldis Blumbergs, Jānis Cielēns, Raivis Dzintars, Aldis Gobzems, Ivans Klementjevs, Ieva Krapāne, Armands Krauze, Atis Lejiņš Dep. (A. Leanny's intermediate call sign.) ... Atis Lejiņš is, Ināra Mūrniece, Vitalijs Orlovs and Karina Sprūde. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-21-PT13-2377-U357	The sitting of the Saeima on 21 April 2022 is closed. See you in 10 minutes.
