ParlaMint-LV_2022-07-14-PT13-2398-U1	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, Starting the examination of the agenda of the third extraordinary session of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 14 July 2022. Please all take a seat in the Chamber. Please call again, calling Members in the Chamber. Perhaps still Members are late. So let's start with the agenda. The first section of the agenda is entitled ‘Transfers of draft law to commissions and 1st reading’. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Civil Support of Ukraine” drawn up by the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Interfaces: “No! ”) ) The Members therefore support the referral of the draft law to the Commission. The Presidium of the Saeima has also received a request from the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption to consider this draft law at this extraordinary meeting at first reading without re-examination by the committee responsible. We are therefore starting to examine the draft law at first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-07-14-PT13-2398-U2	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! So the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption in today's meeting, listening to representatives of the Government, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Economics, representatives of the Riga City Council, representatives of the non-governmental sector, decided to direct the draft law prepared by the Ministry of Economics, “Amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Support Law”. The draft law provides for a number of cases. I'll call it the most important. So the first thing it provides is that municipalities will have the right in future to decide on a period of accommodation for Ukrainian civilians up to 120 days or up to 60 days. The municipality may decide to settle for up to 60 days only if 80 per cent of the actual number of civilians living in Ukraine has been reached in the relevant municipality and it is not possible to ensure accommodation of the relevant Ukrainian civilian in another municipality. At the same time, amendments to the relevant regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers have been prepared, which provides that when setting the accommodation period of 60 days, the municipality may cover the accommodation fee significantly higher for the residents. In particular, for the rent of the apartment - up to 60 euros per month for the apartment. For other accommodation - up to 15 euros per person per day. The draft law also provides for the duty of the municipality to evaluate the possibility to accommodate these Ukrainian civilians in other municipalities, taking into account possibilities of employment, education and social support, before taking a decision for 60 days. The competence of municipalities has also been extended by the obligation to take decisions on the duration of the Ukrainian civilian accommodation and to inform about the decision taken, as well as to constantly exercise supervision and control over the actual possibilities to ensure accommodation for the respective number of Ukrainian civilians in their municipality, as well as to take decisions on additional accommodation opportunities in the municipality. The draft law also clarifies the range of persons to be provided with accommodation for more than 60 or 120 days. So these particularly supportive groups are: women throughout the pregnancy period; a child at pre-school age who is not able to attend a pre-school institution; a child who moves to education at the next level of education or continues to acquire in Ukraine... acquisition of education at a distance or distance in Ukraine; guardian during the childcare period and any person, not only one of the parents, who provides care for the pre-school age child. In addition, the draft law also provides for extended possibilities to adapt the buildings owned by municipalities to the accommodation of Ukrainian civilians, meaning that municipalities have the right to make improvements in any residential buildings or premises owned by the municipality, making the necessary improvements to ensure that the buildings or premises are suitable for living - illuminated, heated - and are suitable for long-term asylum and accommodation of household items. Colleagues, as I said, in the Commission, the draft law has been supported. Having also heard the arguments of the representatives of the government about the urgency of this draft law, the commission decided to support it and asked the Saeima to establish the urgency of this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-07-14-PT13-2398-U3	So, first of all, we must vote on the urgency of the draft law. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Support Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 63, against and refrains. Draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-07-14-PT13-2398-U4	As I said, the draft law has been approved by the Commission. I call for support to be given to this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-07-14-PT13-2398-U5	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Support Law"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 63, against and refrains. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading and the day of the Saeima sitting for the second, final reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-07-14-PT13-2398-U6	Consequently, the Commission, having heard all the parties involved and having regard to the urgency of the matter, did not set a time limit for the proposals, and the Commission requests that the draft law be examined at second reading without a time limit for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-07-14-PT13-2398-U7	The committee is therefore asking for an immediate second reading. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law can therefore also be examined at second reading. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Support Law"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 63, against and refrains. The law is passed. Thank you. The next item is on the agenda for the next sitting - Examination of draft legislation. On the agenda of the sitting - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Vita Anda Steel. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-07-14-PT13-2398-U8	Hello, fellow Members, again! We look at the draft law at second reading. The Commission received one proposal. 1. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. It is planned to fix the deadline for the entry into force of the law for one specific article from 1 October to 1 November. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-07-14-PT13-2398-U9	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-07-14-PT13-2398-U10	We have therefore examined the only proposal. The Commission supported the draft law at second, final, reading. I also call on the Saeima to do so.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-07-14-PT13-2398-U11	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”” in the second, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 46, for - 15, for - 1. The law is passed. Therefore, colleagues, we have reviewed the agenda for the third extraordinary session of the Saeima on 14 July. Only registration of the presence of Members. Please the member of the Saeima, Inese Voika, read the results of the registration as soon as they are prepared.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-07-14-PT13-2398-U12	Colleagues, a long list. Not registered: Valery Agešins, Uldis Augulis, Aldis Blumbergs, Mārtiņš Bondars, Anda Čakša, Gundars Dauge, Sergejs Dolgopolovs, Jānis Dombrava, Vjačslavs Dombrovskis, Jānis Dūklavs, Aldis Gobzems, Marija Golubeva, Kaspars Ģirgens, Janīna Jalinska, Artuss Kaimiņš, Rihards Kols, Ieva Krapāne, Regina Ločmele, Ināra Mūrniece, Ralfs Nemiro, Ramona Petraviča, Eriks Pucens, Juris Pūce, Dace Rukšāne-Špčinsska, Karina Sprūde, Kārlis Šadurskis, Didzis Šmits, Mārtiņš Šuklinskas, Lūbova Švecāls, Edgars Tavars, Jānis Vitenbergs, Jānis Vulins, Eitis-Noins and Reinis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-07-14-PT13-2398-U13	Thank you. I therefore closed the extraordinary session of the third extraordinary session of the Saeima on 14 July 2022. Good evening!
