ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-08-PT13-2394-U1	Dear colleagues, We will begin to examine the issues outstanding at the extraordinary meeting of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 2 June 2022 under the section "Review of Own Proposals". The draft decision “On the way forward of the 10 211 collective application of Latvian citizens “To equip public and municipal road transport with GSM GPS tracking devices””. On behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications - Member Linda Medne. The committee's rapporteur has changed. So, Janina Kursīte-Pacule.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-08-PT13-2394-U2	Dear colleagues, On 2 May of this year, the Saeima received a collective application from 10 211 Latvian citizens “To equip public and municipal road transport with GSM GPS tracking devices”. On 25 May this year, the Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Applications listened to the author of the initiative, who pointed out that the aim of the initiative was to stop the use of state and municipal property for the private needs of officials and to ensure that state money was used only for the performance of the officials' direct tasks. The representative of the Saeima Administration pointed out that already today the use of Saeima road transport is allowed only for work needs, as well as representatives of the Latvian Municipal Union stressed that laws and regulations prohibit the use of road transport for personal needs, and called for the implementation of GPS system not to be made mandatory for all local governments, but to allow each municipality to decide which car should be equipped with GPS systems and which should not. The representative of Riga City Council did not see the utility to equip with GPS systems completely all the vehicles owned by the municipality, but pointed out the benefits of fitting common road vehicles with GPS systems. The Commission decided, after hearing the invited parties, to refer this Latvian citizens' initiative to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission for further evaluation. The Commission prepared a draft decision of the Saeima “On the way forward of a collective application of 10 211 Latvian citizens “To equip public and municipal road transport with GSM GPS tracking devices””. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-08-PT13-2394-U3	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-08-PT13-2394-U4	Latvian society! This proposal signed by the people of Latvia to keep an account of how vehicles are used by the public administration was created on the board of the “Everyone and every person” party. The initiator and author is Jānis Ronis, who is a board member of my party. That idea is very simple. We have experienced many times that both Members, Ministers and the Speaker of the Saeima and others... officials are travelling to the pharmacy, “Rimi” shops with Saeima transport, public transport for public money. It's about yours, the taxpayer, the money. The inclusion and accounting of GPS in vehicles is an absolute norm for any logistics company, both domestic and international. It is exactly the same record of where you drive, why you drive, how much people in the public sector spend when driving public vehicles, that is just the right thing, because there must be control. At the moment absolutely nobody controls it, everyone drives where they want to - to pharmacy, shops, manicure and pedicure... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-08-PT13-2394-U5	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added on behalf of the Commission? Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the way forward of the 10 211 collective application of Latvian citizens “Equipment State and Local Government Road Transport with GSM GPS Tracking Devices””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, The agenda for the extraordinary meeting of 2 June has been examined. Please call me! Please register the Members! The name Dagmarai Beitner-Le Gallai for reading the results of the registration as soon as they are produced.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-08-PT13-2394-U6	Not registered: Aldis Blumbergs, Boriss Cilevičs, Jānis Dūklavs, Marija Golubeva, Artuss Kaimiņš, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Andrejs Klementyevs, Ivans Klementyevs, Ieva Krapāne, Atis Lejiņš, Inese Lībiņa–Egnere, Linda Medne, Ramona Petravičs, Ivans Ribakovs, Dace Rukšāne–Ščipčinska, Karina Sprūde, Inese Voika and Jānis Vucans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-08-PT13-2394-U7	Thank you. I closed the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 2 June this year.
