ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room. We will begin the sitting of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 28 April 2022. First of all, the amendments tabled to the agenda of the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau. Members Aldis Gobzems, Karina Sprūde, Maris Možvillo, Ralfs Nemiro and Ramona Petravičs are asking to include in the agenda the draft law “On the recognition of Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection as invalid”. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) Mr Aldis Gobzems has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U2	Good morning! At the time when Ināra Mūrniece likes to go up while I'm at the bottom, the Soviet restrictions still apply in Latvia. But time will change! Time will change and collective restrictions will be abolished. And they will be abolished for a few reasons. Even though you're extorting me in exile so that you can't find out what's going on in the Saeima, what's going on against the people... When you enter Latvia, you see the obvious that at the airport there are fewer cars (and especially new cars) than at the Saeima House. When you go on the Liberty Street to the Saeima, this morning you see that you can “thank you” for commitial restrictions - and not only for commitial restrictions, but for the entire Saeima and this power - for our freedom as timid as Liberty Street. Social restrictions make our people poor. This is evidenced by lost windows, empty shops, poor people and - ministerial declarations with new homes. And this is one of the reasons why collective restrictions should be abolished. I understand that the power has found a new spark and this new spark is not to solve the problems of our country. On your way across Europe, you see with your own eyes that in countries where there is wealth... Poverty doesn't have to be covered by flags, poverty doesn't have to be covered by bays or pastels and... This wealth is shown everywhere. I think it is a blessing to go not only in political tourism but also in exile to see the huge difference between Latvia and the rest of Europe, where the streets of cities are full of people - compared to Riga (and where you can still talk about smaller cities and towns). And there's another thing - a very important thing - that I want to remind my Saeima colleagues. I understand that it is unpleasant to hear the real opposition, but there are things that you must remember anywhere - Lithuania, Poland, Germany, France, Italy, Spain, Portugal, England. You see everywhere. And this thing is very simple, the thing that... I would also like to see it in Latvia. In particular, when you enter each of these countries, a tourist cannot confuse in which country he is in, because in the country you enter, each national patriot has the flag of his own country - the colour of his own country's flag. And I want to remind you, colleagues, that the Latvian flag is red and white. ( Shows the flag of Latvia.) I call on my colleagues not to confuse tourists: 'Where are we in?' , put this flag, these colors, to the breasts. I call on my colleagues: if you want to fight, then drive to fight, but if you want to be rich...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U3	Thank you. The speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U4	... Latvia, then make rich Latvia!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U5	You have a microphone disabled. The speaking time was over. Do Members object to this draft law being passed on to the Commission? And the objections. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft law “On the recognition of the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection as invalid” on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 27, against - 42, abstaining - not. Draft legislation is not on the agenda of the sitting. Members Aldis Gobzems, Karina Sprūde, Maris Možvillo, Ralfs Nemiro and Ramona Petravičs are asking to include in the agenda the draft law “On the declaration of the Covid-19 law on the control of the spread of infection as null and void”. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Aldis Gobzems.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U6	You, dear power, which in 20 years has made our people slaves, were elected to increase the prosperity of Latvia. Latvia, not your well-being! The social restrictions have depreciated prosperity. However, this morning, when I was going to the Saeima, I saw that some Members have new BMW X5... In these difficult times of crisis, when everyone has to pull their belts, it turns out - in fact, the belts have to be drawn to the people and not to the Members: at the Saeima House we see the worst, the youngest car park, Mr Riekstins. And that's not right. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “Include yours!” ) And that is not right, because the smoothest car park should have been a nation. ( Milestones.) You talked before the elections about raising the minimum wage. For raising the minimum wage at a time when you... You have been oppressing business for several years. This must end today - now, now. This must end because you are driving the people of Latvia into poverty. You have brought darkness for 20 years, but it is interesting that in life it is the day when the light shines all the works of darkness. And that day will come soon. Such a day will come, and there will be no more that Inara Mūrniece is up and Gobzem at the bottom. Everything will change. And more and more people of Latvia see that these 20 years of power... and, in particular, the last two years when the only thing you... you have done everything to strengthen your totalitarian regime, hiding behind the word of democracy. It's gonna be over. You know, these restrictions should be abolished for another reason. One more reason. Because when you see with your eyes how people usually live in other countries - usually people... not Members, but just people! - Then... It's usually been... history... so that everywhere you go, everything is more expensive, but now it's the other way around - everything is more expensive here. It's more expensive to eat for pensioners and school students... ‘as a result of’ all these restrictions. The more expensive is to dress up, the more expensive is the petrol, the more expensive is the car... more expensive is anything in Latvia - in empty Latvia. And this is your “achievement” in 20 years! In 20 years it is your “achievement” - empty Latvia! You don't see that? I see it. In 20 years Singapore had already grown almost by metropolis from a fishing village. You've let our country down in 20 years. And, in particular, you have done this in the last two years. You don't believe that? Go... Walk in Old Town, go on Brīvības Street, through any street! Do we even have one street without pitholes? Do we even have one clean street? Just one street, full of people? We've got one store that's cheaper than...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U7	Thank you, thank you. The speaking time is over. Do Members object to the inclusion of a draft law on the agenda of the sitting? Please call me! We will vote for inclusion in the agenda of the draft law “On the recognition of the Covid-19 law on the control of the spread of infection as forceless”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation is not on the agenda of the sitting. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking for the draft law Amending the Law on the Movement of Fertilisers to be included on the agenda of the meeting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Cabinet of Ministers revokes the draft law “Amendments to the Energy Law” (No. 1434/Lp13). Consequently, the draft law is excluded from the agenda of the sitting. Members Karina Sprūde, Maris Možvillo, Aldis Gobzems, Ramona Petravičs and Julija Stepanenko are asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Social Benefits”. Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote for inclusion of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Social Benefits” on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 27, against - 43, refraining from - 1. Draft legislation is not on the agenda of the sitting. Let us start by looking at the agenda of the adopted sitting. On the agenda - Bureau reports. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Construction Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law of the Bank of Latvia” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Committee on Budgets and Finance (taxes), stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law of the Land Guard of the Republic of Latvia” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the National Armed Forces” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Ensuring the Activities of the President of Latvia” be referred to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “The Internal Security Fund, the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund and the Financial Support Instrument for Border Management and Visa Policy for the programming period 2021-2027” submitted by the Cabinet be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Streika Law” be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Political Parties” submitted by Member Edvina Šnores, Raivja Dzintars, Ritvars Jansons, Jānis Dombrava and Janīna Kursīte-Pakule be referred to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Mr. Schnore has applied to talk about it? ‘ For” applied to speak Member Edwin Schnore.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U8	Hello, dear colleagues! In recent years, Russia has repeatedly taken aggressive action with regard to its neighbours. It attacked Georgia in 2008, Ukraine in 2014, the annexation of the Crimean Peninsula, and supported separatists in the east. This year, Russia officially recognised the independence of the so-called republics of Lugansk and Donetsk, while on 24 February, a comprehensive military attack was carried out against Ukraine by bombing cities, killing Ukrainian citizens, committing mass war crimes. Although the Saeima has condemned Russia's aggression in Ukraine, it is part of society that nevertheless supports... Such sentiments have been promoted by Russian propaganda, as well as by representatives of certain political forces, who have expressed their support for the actions carried out by Russia. We believe that political parties that support Russia's aggressive policy and justify Russia's crimes pose a threat to Latvia's security and are contrary to Latvia's national interests. This is clearly demonstrated by the example of Ukraine. There for years political parties, both inside and outside Parliament, were active, which did not even hide the close cooperation with the Kremlin regime, and often openly represented its interests in Ukraine. This was the case until the Russian invasion in February this year. After that, some pro-Russian Ukrainian politicians fled abroad. I note that some of them also fled to Latvia. Apparently, with your peers. Others were arrested in Ukraine. Today, we see an unprecedented situation where, through the exchange of prisoners, one another could even be extradited to Moscow by these pro-Russian politicians. The war has broken everything around the shelves and without unnecessary political correctness has shown what is and on which side is located. For Ukraine, this path of truth has been very difficult. A very high price is paid for it and is paid every day as the war continues. Today, Ukraine is giving us an example of how not only to fight in the battlefield, but also how to deal with the Kremlin's agents in politics. Therefore, I call for conclusions to be drawn and for Latvia's political parties to be prohibited by law from publicly praise, deny or justify genocide, crimes against humanity, crimes against peace, war crimes, as well as to support actions aimed at undermining the territorial integrity, sovereignty, independence or constitutional system of democratic states. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U9	Thank you. We have also received a written application from Member Edvinas Šnore to refer this draft law to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. So, colleagues, we'll vote on the bill if... Who wants the vote? No, I don't want a vote. Are Members opposed to handing over the draft law "Amendment to the Law on Political Parties" to the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption, making it a commission responsible? There is no objection by Members. The draft law is submitted to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law on the Law on Civil Protection and Disaster Management presented by the Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption Commission be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Bureau of the Saeima proposes the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” presented by Karina Sprūde, Alda Gobzem, Māra Možvillo, Julia Stepanenko and Kaspars Girgens (No. 1437/Lp13) transferred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the Commission responsible. Do Members object to the draft law... Karina Sprūde, Member, has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U10	Good morning, honourable colleagues! Speaker of the Saeima! I would like to remind you at the second sitting that we have great poverty in the country. Two or three years ago, I already made such a proposal, when there was no crisis yet, there was not yet a community. On the part of the JCPOA, I was accused of lobbying the Maxima and Rimi networks. But we saw people lobbying other supermarket networks and everything was all right... was able to visit. I was accused of just wanting people to have a little cheaper food. Are we really going to wait a long time? How do we... I don't know, we're gonna lose consciousness? We cannot pay half of the school's catering, and VAT is high. Poland can afford. You are, after all, a conservative party, a national association! What are you taking care of? About people? ( Internouncing call.) I think VAT... either, similar to VAT... I think, well, where to steal from there! People buy and buy... There can't be a chart. Well, let people buy cheap bread, cheaper eggs, meat! You want it to be for people every day... We have a human health condition... Prevention... everything is reduced, the level is poor, people... Well, the diet has deteriorated. We have doctors, we have specialists. But these are fundamental values that people need! I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U11	Mr. Aldis Gobzems has applied to speak, although he is one of the drafters of this law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U12	Colleagues! I call on all those who really want to deepen the poverty of the people of Latvia to vote 'no' more and more. All right. And let me explain why. Latvia is so rich and we are so proud of our country that I think we are the only ones who do not help our people... In Europe, the only country. ( Internouncing call.) I know that Members can afford. They may be the ones who, instead of reading to Greeks, can also afford to buy readings. Salmon is one of the most expensive fish in Latvia. ( The utterance: “Funny things! ”) ) Well, the salmon is relatively expensive. How much it costs - what EUR 14, 15 per kilogram... with a discount. ( Interface: “More! ” ) More information. More and without a discount. Mr Bondar knows very clearly how much salmon is paid. ( Internouncing call.) We all know how much salmon is paid in Latvia. For example, in Spain salmon is the most expensive fish. Eight euro is paid in Spain for salmon, but there is no VAT in Spain for food. By the way, you didn't just cut down here, you didn't help when their petrol prices went up. For example, in Spain, the king gave all people 25 santons per litre, 25 santts per litre! 1,60 lats paid in Spain when you paid two euros... Whereas in Germany. Because the German pensioners paid you the petrol here. Bread, milk... By the way, milk. You say I went to Spain rich. 75 Sundays are paid by milk. How much does milk pay in Latvia? Thanks to your whole thing, that you can't (interfaces.) ... Anything else to name? What else do you want to name? In the restaurant? Let's talk about restaurants. You, Members, like restaurants, I know. I know you like the Saeima canteen and restaurants. ( Milestones.) Come on, talk about the restaurant. Nine people, nine Latvians, eat in the restaurant, pay 100 euros, nine people! Two go in Latvia. Go to any restaurant with a wound, without 150 euros you won't be through. Because you can't survive. Because there is no reduction in VAT, and they are not jokes. And then you go on Brīvības Street, where all the windows are at the bomberg, I'm sorry. It's not clean, it's all down Brīvības Street, with pitholes. Freedom like I said before. And you can't reduce VAT? The voice will vote against. This morning, I'm watching you drive... The latest X5, I think it was. Riekstin, you were at the wheel with the X5? You were? And so! ( Internouncing call.) It's about that cartel... on the cartel agreement where you were punished. ( Milestones.) For that money.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U13	Thank you. So the speaking time is over. Are Members... One has said 'for', one is 'for'. So we will vote. Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax (No. 1437/Lp13) transfer to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, making it a responsible commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 31, for - 44, for - 1. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” presented by Member Ulda Augulis, Edgars Tatars, Armands Krauze, Raimonds Bergmanis, Gundars Dauges, Viktors Valaiņa, Janina Jalinska and Jānis Vacāns (No. 1439/Lp13) transferred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U14	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I would like to ask your attention, indeed seriously, to listen to our argument about why this draft law should be passed on and should begin to be dealt with in the parliamentary corridors. Colleagues, we have heard before about how much to pay, but I will introduce you to some price changes directly related to food in Latvia. Thus, for example, potato prices have now risen by 23 per cent. A lot or a little, decide for yourself! Bread - almost one third (solid fuel - one third), cheese, curd - one third, more than one third, fresh vegetables - one third. ( Well, at energy prices, colleagues...) they have already doubled in a number of places... which is one of the main cases of raw materials.) For other dairy products, almost a third of the price has now come. We hear that... The Secretary of State of our responsible ministry, the Ministry of Agriculture, introduced that the price could rise by 50 percent this year. Unfortunately, the government has not created for itself, and today we have not yet seen any other alternative price reduction offers in the Saeima. Colleagues, I say: unfortunately, but we have experience - we have experience in reducing VAT! One question was when the Ministry of Finance very simply reduced VAT by interest at the time it was supposed to adopt the euro, and it was not a problem to do so. But there was also a reduction in VAT on fruit, vegetables and berries typical of Latvia, and, colleagues, at the time, the Ministry of Finance with all possible methods... said it would create a gap in the budget and that it would have a negative impact. However, in this case, we can see how it turned out to be a reality. In reality, it turned into an actual price reduction in stores... prices fell on store shelves. Our entrepreneurs in this sector went out of the shadow economy, and the facts, figures confirm this. The Latvian University of Agriculture has scientific studies, and there are already new ones, which attest this and show that this VAT reduction is a real result, and it has already been. Today, we in the Saeima are unfortunately not even prepared to open a debate on this issue. I'm sorry it's like that. For the second week in a row, we offer at least to start a discussion on these issues at the Saeima. We have a Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, which has a tax sub-commission, maybe I am wrong in its name, but, colleagues, this sub-committee looked at the shadow economy plan for 2021-2022... When 2022 has already run to half and, in principle, the plan is already... That's about to come to an end. What, then, is being offered? This plan offers to focus more and more on our entrepreneurs, our Latvian citizens, so that they pay taxes, but nothing is said about the reasons why they do not pay these taxes. At present, people's purchasing power has been weakened. The volume of products currently sold in stores is declining rapidly. The ten leading dairy processing companies in Latvia have announced that they are in bankruptcy. And why is that? Because Poland, Germany, the big economies, are extremely seriously subsidising producers, farmers, the economy, the purchasing power of people - in the form of taxes and direct subsidies. It gives a result, and the result is that we buy Lithuanian milk, Estonian cheese, various foreign products, German pork. This is what the people of Latvia currently buy in a store. We're not going... We do not take any steps to limit it in any way. Colleagues, I call for a debate, a serious debate here in the Saeima on these issues. There is no other way of forcing the government to move on. This is the only way to start putting pressure on the government so that there are some results. I do not see them at the moment; I do not see any instruments that would be offered. Let us now allow the rots to be further processed. Well, colleagues, this is a small entity against the challenge that we are facing. Colleagues, I call for support for the draft law and for discussions to start on the application of reduced rates of value added tax to foodstuffs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U15	Thank you. ‘ Aldis Gobzems, the Member against’, has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U16	No, well, what can I say... Members of the Saeima! It is absolutely necessary to vote against. You have voted against the population for 20 years. I think we should not change direction. Vote against Latvian citizens - this is your brand. Do it safely! The main thing is to place a flag - if there is a flag, then there is a patriot of Latvia, then everything is there. It's nothing that the refrigerator has a cold, it's nothing that the cold will, I think, fall not just in the refrigerator. It's okay that there's the highest prices in Latvia. By the way, about prices speaking. I have already talked about Spain, let us talk about Switzerland now. I went to Switzerland and watch the prices in the store. I have the feeling that I am in Latvia. Do you understand? Only in Switzerland salaries are slightly different from those in Latvia. The other thing is that in every country, I watched very carefully the pensioners of supermarkets, the aunt, who will count the savings, or the Greek pack, meet or not. You know what happened to me? I couldn't count anyone, no tantaco. When you go to the restaurant that I mentioned, it is where tankos are sitting at the age of 90, got more subtle than Mrs. Mūrniece, and enjoy old age. Smells old age! That's the difference. If someone feels that it is the norm of age to suffer, then we have to be a nation of victims, the poor, who can't do anything, then I say today from this tribunal that it is time to end it once. It is time to end the suffering of a nation, the poor, who can do nothing. This year, everything can be changed, by the way. VAT is just one issue. The reason why VAT on food is not reduced in Latvia, but VAT on food in other countries, which I mentioned for the third or fifth time in Spain, is very clear. Because the king is a Spanish and cares for the interests of his people. What is our Prime Minister? American! And that's the whole answer. That is the whole answer. It's so simple. And then we hide everything, all the poverty that is in Latvia, because there is total poverty in Latvia, total emptiness and total poverty everywhere you look at. Then we hide. There are two themes: either behind the iris or the flags. And that's it. The third one is still at the forehead. There's nothing more. This is the difference between a poor country and poor thinking and a rich country. In rich countries, there is no talk about the temples, the flags, and everything else. In rich countries, people are rich, and people are happy, just happy. Children go to school. School cheaper and - cheaper! Go anywhere - any child will be taken immediately on the first day. You won't have a place in a kindergarten or somewhere else... please come! Oh, you came here today, please come learn! Today! Oh, I don't know Spanish? Learn, nothing! Come on, rec, you're in the form of school football! Everything is formed in comparison. In comparison, you can see how life is actually built. Maybe we have to stop... Just have to be honest: end suffering, dear people! You like to suffer for 700 years, to be servants? That's enough, maybe once! We need to wake up one time. ( Independence: “Go away! ” ) I understand that the JCPOA wants to continue exactly as it has done by deceiving everyone in turn, but that time will come to an end immediately. I understand that my speeches may not like them, but they are fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U17	Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax (No. 1439/Lp13) transfer to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, making it a responsible commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 34, against - 44, refraining from - 1. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the Member Viktoras Valaiņa, Jānis Vacāns, Gundars Dauges, Edgars Tatars, Janina Jalinska and other draft laws presented "Amendment to the Law on Conformity Assessment" be referred to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U18	President of the Saeima. Colleagues! This issue is already rich in history, and with all due respect to Mr Feldman and those other Members, Commission Heads, who are in essence on this issue... at least tried to examine in the Saeima, the committee responsible. Mr. Znotiņš also looked at this issue more than once at the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit... we evaluated, listened to the industry. I have two feelings in this regard. One attitude is that of the government towards the Members of the Saeima. The other is the government's attitude towards the sector, towards entrepreneurs working on these issues on a daily basis. Here I would like to put forward two opinions. One opinion was the opinion of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, in which the government pointed out that, possibly because of this solution... and, everywhere, said the word "perhaps" - perhaps if we cut, let us give up some time, prices could rise and prices could probably happen... any fines should be paid. The whole text was through “probably”. If we look at how this same government communicates with the sector, for example, with farmers, then the government responded with a completely different letter: understand, yes, this is the solution, but, honourable farmers, this solution has no political support. It is so simple that the government communicates with the farmers. Two different audiences - two different opinions. Some say: perhaps there will be cataclysm; others say, colleagues, there is no political support. On behalf of the word, it was with this text that the government explained why these impurities cannot be abandoned at the present time. But it may already be that we are wrong. Colleagues, the Minister for Agriculture has publicly said that it would be a solution to lower prices. That is not what the Member of the government has said to the public. Who else could talk about this? Vice-President of the European Commission Valdis Dombrovskis. Valdis Dombrovskis - NEW Unity, colleagues, your entire government-led Commissioner! The whole government agreed to move this man, and what has he said about this? How could the consumption of prices be reduced... price increases? One of the first things Valdis Dombrovskis was to give up some time on these things. One of the first things! He is looking at the whole of Europe, and the explanation was also logical and understandable. Colleagues, looking into this issue in more detail, I am absolutely convinced that one company is being defended here. One particular company. ( The box “What? ”) ) And no, there is no other explanation (interfaces.) why the government does not approve this issue. All the rest of the industry - farmers, meeting... Farmers buy large volumes of fuel - 10, 20 tons. It's very, very important for them. What do business people who sell fuel face-to-face... all of us, as one says, give up this interference, its price will fall significantly. What is happening in Latvia's big fuel market? There is a real one businessman who controls this market of all interferences in Latvia, and his interests are quite simply defended. We, fellow Members, now offer at least a third quarter - at least a third quarter! - make decisions so that we can reduce fuel prices in some way. We do not have any supply for the third quarter at this point in time. We have an estimate by the Bank of Latvia that there will be two-digit inflation. We have the Bank of Latvia forecast that an economic recession is possible, but today we are ready to buy LNG in large amounts. We are ready for all kinds of solutions, but we are not prepared to make decisions today that could even slightly lower fuel prices without having an impact on the budget. Maybe not today, but autumn. Believe me, this question will be just as relevant as it is today. It won't change. When we got up on April 1, they said that it was impossible because they had already concluded contracts... And everything else... that they are already committed. But why can we not make a decision today on November or December? Do you think that this question will no longer be relevant? What are you fooling at, yourself or society? Colleagues, we all understand that some solutions need to be created. This is without budgetary implications. I call upon you to start talking about this at last, too, in the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U19	Thank you. ‘ Aldis Gobzems, the Member against’, has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U20	Mr. Valaiņš, I will address you. You don't need any cheaper fuel in Latvia, you don't need to help farmers, you don't need anything. Is that not understandable? Dombrovskis has a seat in the European Parliament; it is enough. Let him sit, get his 50 or how many hold of them a thousand a month, and that's it. By the way, you have noticed how many years he is a Commissioner... or in some high position he sits there. What exactly has Dombrovskis helped Latvia? What exactly? Well, as it happens, we have such a fine Commissioner from the New Unity, by the way. For twenty years, Unity has been in power, the National Union, by the way. And what has it helped? As it happens, we have a Commissioner of this kind, but wages in the smallest, kindergartens are not, petrol is more expensive. So what has it helped? Who Has Helped? Oh, I know who I helped. It was recently the Minister of the National Alliance... At Solvita Āboltiņa, also from the New Unity, went to Venice, discovered there... He drank wine...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U21	On the subject, please, Mr Gobzem. Address the draft law, please.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U22	I understand, Mrs Mourniece, you don't want me to tell you about those bells that make it in Venice for taxpayers' money...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U23	Thank you, thank you. So one Member said 'for', the other one spoke 'for'. We will vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Conformity Assessment”, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 33, against - 40, refraining - 4. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. Hereinafter referred to as ‘the election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust’. The President of the Republic of Crimea is hereby authorised to designate the person(s) empowered to sign the Agreement on behalf of the European Union and to sign the Agreement on behalf of the European Union and the Swiss Confederation on behalf of the Union. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U24	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 19 April this year, the draft decision ‘On the approval of Madara Plepja as a judge of a district (city) court’ was examined. The members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call on Madara Plape to approve the judge of district (city) court without any limitation of his term of office.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U25	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the approval of Madara Plepja as a district (city) court judge! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 70, it's against and abstains. Decision adopted. Draft decision “On the dismissal of Brigita Būmeistere, a judge of Riga Regional Court from the position of judge”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U26	During the meeting of the Legal Commission on 20 April, the draft decision “On the dismissal of Brigita Būmeistere, a judge of Riga Regional Court from the office of a judge” was reviewed. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call on Brigita Būmeister, the judge of the Riga Regional Court, to be released from office of a judge at his own will on May 5, 2022 - due to his retirement.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U27	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the dismissal of Brigita Būmeistere, the judge of Riga Regional Court from the office of judge! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 68, against and refrains - not. Decision adopted. The draft decision “On the dismissal of Vineta Vaisakas, a judge of the regional court of Kurzeme from the office of a judge”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U28	During the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 20 April, the draft decision “On the dismissal of Vineta Vaisaka, a judge of the regional court of Kurzeme from the office of a judge” was reviewed. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I appeal to the judge of the regional court of Kurzeme to release Vinetas Vaisakas from office of a judge at his own wish from July 4, 2022. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U29	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the dismissal of Vineta Vaiteka, a judge of the regional court of Kurzeme from the office of a judge”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. Decision adopted. And the draft decision on the approval of the representative of the Saeima to the Committee on the Control of the Nordic Investment Bank. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U30	President-in-Office of the Saeima. ( Accidentally overturning the glass. Idle: “Don’t worry!” ; methacrylics.) Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues! I mean, I'm not going to be as interesting as I used to... but, it turns out, there was a little! But actually... We are today looking at the question of the approval of a representative of the Saeima in the Committee on the Control of the Nordic Investment Bank. And we are talking about our fellow Members, Ilzi Incricsoni, who have been in this post for two years. At the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, she gave a very broad and comprehensive report for her two years, and the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission decided that we could, yes, approve Ilzi Indricson for the next two years. Therefore, we invite you to do so. Let us confirm Ilzi Indricson for the next two years in the Nordic Investment Bank's Control Committee!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U31	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the approval of the representative of the Saeima in the Committee on the Control of the Nordic Investment Bank! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 69, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, On the agenda - consideration of Members' requests. Requests received by Members. The Saeima Presidium has received a request from Member Viktors Valaiņa, Ulda Augulis, Jānis Vucanas, Gundars Dauges, Edgars Tatars, Evija Papules, Janina Jalinska, Māra Kučinska, Jānis Dūklavs and Didzis Šmits, Minister of Education and Science Anita Muižniece, “Does the Ministry of Education and Science decide on the reorganisation of the school network”. No statement of reasons has been received for this request. The request shall be submitted to the Requesting Commission. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Sport Law”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Member Linda Medne.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U32	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! See the draft law “Amendments to the Sport Law” (No. 1388/Lp13), second reading, urgent. Remind me, colleagues. Russian military aggression, a large-scale invasion in Ukraine, has raised the issue of the participation of Latvian sports teams in sports competitions organised by Russia and Belarus, especially in national championships, given that one of Russia's soft uses of power is sport. The draft law “Amendments to the Sport Law” has been declared urgent and intends to prohibit the participation of sports teams, athletes and sports participants registered in Latvia in Russian and Belarusian national championships and cup competitions, competitions in international leagues of team sports games, where more than half of the teams are from Russia and Belarus, as well as sports competitions taking place in Russia or Belarus, with the intention to impose state and public safety-related restrictions on the execution by members and candidates of the constitutions of sports organisations registered in Latvia and recognised sports federations. The Education, Culture and Science Commission has received, evaluated and proposed to Members for second reading of the draft law 14 proposals. 1. - Member Nemir's proposal. It is planned to supplement Article 1 of the Law with a new point - clarification of the term “sport agent” used by the law. Given that this term is not repeated in the law, it is proposed to include its explanation in Article 21 of the draft law, which uses the term ‘sport agent’. In the Commission, the proposal is partly supported and included in 10. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U33	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U34	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is planned to present Article 9.2.1 in a new version, clarifying the references to parts of the following articles, which impose state security restrictions on persons who are included in the National Sports Council of Latvia. The proposal is supported by the Commission. ( Intercretion: Vote!) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U35	Are Members willing to vote? Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 57, for - 1, for - 11. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U36	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is planned to supplement Article 10 with the twelfth part of the law by stating that the head of the executive body of the recognised sports organisation is a person who is loyal to the Republic of Latvia and its Constitution. In the Commission, the proposal is partly supported and included 4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U37	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U38	4. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It is planned to supplement Article 10 of the Law with the twelfth and thirteenth parts, extending the scope of the norms included in the draft law. There is a requirement that not only the head of the executive body of the recognised sports federation, but also the person who holds the office of a member of the executive body of a sports organisation may not be a staff member of the state security services, intelligence or counter-intelligence services, and may not have been an employee of the State Security Service of the USSR, the State Security Service of the Latvian SSR, intelligence service or the counter-intelligence service. The norm also provides for rules to be followed when applying for election as a member of recognised sports organisations. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U39	Members want to vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - The proposal submitted by the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! ( Internouncing call.) Please get the result! For -56, for -1, for -11. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U40	5. - Sanda Riekstin's proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science. It is planned to extend the restrictions related to state and public security, which apply not only to the head of the executive body of the recognised sports federation, but also to its members, by requiring that only a citizen of the Republic of Latvia may be a member of the executive body of the sports federation. In the Commission, the proposal is partly supported and included 7. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U41	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U42	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Article 10.1 first paragraph, point 5.1, in a new version, provides for restrictions to be imposed on the head of the executive body of the sports federation in relation to national and public security. In the Commission, the proposal is partly supported and included 7. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U43	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U44	7. - a proposal from the committee responsible. To clarify and supplement the versions of Proposals 5 and 6, reword Article 2 of the draft law. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U45	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Kucin.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U46	Hello, colleagues! The fact that our society is divided; that the integration process that has been carried out for decades has not been successful - not only the opposition, but also the representatives of the ruling parties, have spoken loud about it since the war in Ukraine. Both the President of Latvia and the Prime Minister have invited us all to work in order to unite society in their speeches. ‘ It is important for us in Latvia to remain united. We are all patriots of our country and of the earth. Yes, we have different political views, we speak different languages at home, but we are united in patriotism. Let's not look at each other with anger." Colleagues, this is a quote from what Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš said. In turn, the President of Latvia Levitas admits: “It is essential that a person is a patriot of Latvia, that he is an honest person who knows what justice and rights....” Politically, we hear talk about the unification of society, about building a united political nation, but how in fact? What unity of society, a united nation can we talk about by strengthening the legal norm that only a citizen of the Republic of Latvia can be a member of the executive body of the sports federation, thus denying a large part of society this right? I am talking about citizens. That's discrimination, colleagues. Once again, it is proposed to divide our citizens into "right" and "right" people. This will not only contribute to the cohesion of Latvian society, but I also see serious risks here in relation to the Constitutional Court. By the way, during the meeting of the panel, the Bureau of Legal Affairs spoke about this. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstin’s intermediate call sign.) In support of such amendments to the law, the existing division of society will continue and cannot be allowed. We are not against the idea of bringing the law into line, but I believe that the proposed bill is to some extent a brother. And, I'm sorry, a band of witch hunting can't be supported. I also call on you, my fellow Members, to vote against proposal 7 and not to support the draft law at second, final, reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U47	The name is Sandy Riekstin.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U48	Hello, colleagues! It's a little weird to listen to the Members of the Saeima who are telling us that we're going to split... In a country that has been independent for more than 30 years, we are still discussing it - citizens and non-citizens... and whether non-citizens should be allowed to run sports organisations that receive public funding, in particular taxpayers' money. We're after 30... how... we've been discussing this here for years. ( Internouncing call.) This has long had to be done. No one has denied you citizenship. Colleagues, I call for support both for this proposal and for the whole draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U49	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U50	Dear colleagues! Latvian society! Speaking of sport - what has always seemed strange to me in Latvia... I find the discussion strange: citizens and non-citizens... And something else... I thought that the money for sport... money must be given to athletes, but in Latvia it is given to functionaries. Now it always happens - functionally there at the proud table gets... Head of the Federation Col, for example... He's a Bobsleighist, he turns out. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Coll: “I?” ) No, your father. Your father is the head of the Latvian Bobsleigh and Skeleton Federation; 150 or how many thousand a year... How long he gets there, I don't know. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Col: “He doesn’t get anything! ” ) Well, don’t get it ( Dep. R. Col: “Stop trying... “), but in the Bobslee, there is never a bob pusher. But the bob drive is never, by the way! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Cols: ‘... the most vital federation!’ ) Yes, Bob Cole has never driven, but is the head of the Latvian Bobsleigh and Skeleton Federation. And just because the son is in the National Association. In principle, this is also all you need to know about sport. In the normal world, money is given to athletes rather than functional. It's normal in the world. Then there will also be achievements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U51	Colleagues, please return to the substance of the proposal. It's not about money, but about what can be in the sports federation. Name to Member Ivan Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U52	Dear colleagues, The law on sport is the same as the document by which all 96 federations recognised in Latvia are run. And you know very well what an opportunity is to ensure that the president of the Federation, a member of the Board, will take part in World Championships and Olympics, prepare, train camps and other processes and prepare young people. Unfortunately, all that the state offers is perhaps 10... well, at best... on other sports... Only 20 per cent of it takes money. How do athletes survive? Last Friday, the centenary of Latvia's Olympic Committee was established. In those years Latvian athletes brought 100 Olympic medals to Latvia - 100 Olympic medals! Many of them are golden Olympic medals. How much does one Olympic medal cost? Maybe five, maybe 10 million. And calculate it - the funds spent every year and... with those Olympic medals. Unfortunately, there will be nothing, there will be no medal, there will not be nothing if there are no private sponsors. If we now start raising the question about one, maybe two people, let us call their names right away. Mr Riekstin said that they received public funds. Then ask those people how much the person we are talking about is investing our private funds or how much money is invested from our business, not keeping it in the pocket, but giving it to the Latvian athletes to represent Latvia's interests in the international arena. Then think about it, not about how to change... make it in the Sports Act... I don't know, like a notebook. Each federation has its own institutions, its own members, sports schools, which also vote. And each of them has the right to vote or not for that person - depending on whether they think he is a good patriot in that sport or not. And that's how... But if the federations sit without money, especially as it was in the 1990s... ride, who wants to go to the Olympic Games... We don't have any money. You have a car, drive your car... Buy yourself a boat, buy yourself clothes. I was walking in Barcelona... I took part in the 1992 Olympics, and I had no underpants or... I went to Barcelona at a temperature of 40 degrees Fahrenheit and searched for me to start... Well, sorry, we're back on this ground. We don't support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U53	I closed the debate. The debate is closed. On behalf of the Commission, please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U54	The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U55	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - The proposal submitted by the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U56	8 / 8 - Member Ralph Nemir's proposal. Taking into account that this draft law has established urgency in relation to the need to impose as soon as possible a ban on the participation of sports teams, sportsmen and sports professionals registered in Latvia in sports events related to Russia and Belarus, as well as restrictions related to state and public security, the majority agreed that proposals that do not relate to the urgency of the draft law are not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U57	Let us start a debate. The name to Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U58	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The rapporteur had already reported precisely on this issue. Working relationships with athletes need to be regulated separately. This problem is, in fact, present and has not been addressed for a long time. And if a sportsman does not receive full remuneration and therefore does not pay tax on that amount, unfortunately, there is a risk that, in the future, he may face a situation where pension or social security is not full. I fully agree that it may not have been right to submit this proposal in this opening-up, but we would still have been obliged to debate it in this term. We can do this in the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs; we can do this in the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. This, however, depends on the wishes of the chairmen of these commissions to address this issue. I hope there will be, colleagues, and we will come back to this. The reality is the following. Thus, the sportsman, in particular the individual sportsman, receives a minimum remuneration, which is subject to social taxes respectively, the rest is hidden under various agency contracts, advertising contracts and other contracts which are more relevant to the company's contract than to such a classic form of employment legal relationship. Therefore, this amendment of the law by substance must certainly be moved further. This could perhaps be driven by the Labour Law. The work law is now open, and we will be able to talk about it in the commission accordingly. I will then ask my fellow Members to support this issue, to discuss it in three readings, as appropriate, and not on an urgent basis. I therefore withdrawn this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U59	Thank you. The proposal has therefore been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U60	9. - Member Ralph Nemir's proposal. It is planned to supplement the draft law with Article 21, which states that “the cooperation of sports organisations registered in the Republic of Latvia, Latvian athletes and Latvian sports specialists with sports agents from the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus shall be prohibited”. Partly supported and included 10. - the Commission's proposal. Proposal No 10...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U61	Wait, wait, wait! Let's start a debate. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U62	Dear President, Honourable Members! I have not received one previous proposal to apply, but this one, 9 and the next one, in which it is included, is welcome. And why? I have some reservations here about what I heard from previous speakers, for example, that Latvia is divided. Latvia is not divided, colleagues, and this has been demonstrated by the fact that we welcome 20 thousand refugees here and let us receive another, I understand, 20... even maybe up to 60 thousand together. It turned out that Latvians, despite the gems of various non-governmental organizations, that we did not accept Syrians and that we are xenophobic, showed absolute unity in municipalities. But there is one another's problem that is not talked about here. This is not what we stress, whether we talk about education, culture or sport. The small Russia is built here. We pretend that this is not the case. We pretend that Latvia is not the only country in the European Union whose capital is less than half of the indigenous population. We pretend that there is no completely different country with citizens with a completely different culture, with a completely different view of geopoliticalism, who have come here from a completely different civilisation that has built their own companies here, opened up their banks, built their own school system, culture and flooded our country with reassuring monuments of rapers and murderers. These arrivals are bellows, and I do not blame them, but the fifth column of Latvia - the fifth column of Latvia. It is the Latvian traitors that have been the ones who have requested to soften the Law on the State Language, which has allowed one woman who has been in the rescue committee and who has been in the company since 1991 to stand as candidates in the European Parliament, and who have allowed the Russian face of fascism to spread here. And just had to happen to this war in Ukraine, to this savage invasion, rapes, murders, so that this Asian order finally realized that they have nothing to do here in Latvia. Living in a foreign country, constantly demanding all kinds of privileges by sniffing everything that is touched by sniffing economic life, spreading corruption and sniffing sports to the last. What's going on in football? What language have all these coaches taken here, how have they paid for these games, how has the Latvian hockey been shooked? You just hate talking! I think we have to stop starting, we have to eliminate this little Russia. From 1 September all kindergartens must be in Latvian. Teachers who do not speak Latvian according to the highest requirements should be released completely in all schools. ( Milestones.) I call for support to be given to the next proposal, 10. Thank you for your attention. Let's stop!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U63	So, Proposal No 9 has been partly supported. Mr Kirstein, are you asking for support for the 9th or 10th proposal, in which it is included? ( Internouncing call.) It has therefore asked for support to be given to proposal 10 in line with the opinion of the Commission. That is why Members agree on Amendment 9.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U64	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Compilation and clarification of 1 and 9. - Mr Nemiro's proposal, the Commission proposes the addition of Article 21 to the draft law, in two parts. Having established that the sports agent represents the interests of sportsman and sports specialist in sports relations with third parties and that sports organisations, Latvian athletes and Latvian sports specialists registered in the Republic of Latvia are prohibited from cooperating with sports agents from the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U65	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U66	11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is envisaged to clarify the wording of Article 5 of the draft law by supplementing the transitional provisions by points 13, 14 and 15. Partially supported and included 13. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U67	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U68	12. - Sanda Riekstin's proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science. The wording of point 14 of the transitional provisions referred to in Article 5... the entry into force of the conditions of the 12th paragraph of Article 10 and points 5 and 5.1 of the first paragraph of Article 10.1 of that law, which provide that those conditions apply not only to the directors of sports organisations but also to the members of the executive bodies of the sports federation. Partially supported and included 13. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U69	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U70	13. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The wording of proposals 11 and 12 is clarified. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U71	Members support (interoperable: I want to vote). )... I wish to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 13. - The proposal submitted by the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -56, for -1, for -11. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U72	And 14. - Member Ralph Nemir's proposal. It is envisaged to complement the transitional provisions with a new point linked to the legal framework for professional sport. The majority of the Commission agreed that the proposal, which does not concern the conditions of urgency, is not supported by this draft law. The Commission was therefore not in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U73	Let's start a debate. The name to Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U74	Once again, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his accurate report. This proposal does not really meet the conditions of urgency. I would also like to thank the Ministry of Education and Science, Chairman of the Sports Sub-Commission... In which... In the context of a number of proposals, we supported them in editorial terms. It was a sufficiently fast and successful way of working together. On the other hand, as I said, when it comes to labour legal relations with athletes, this issue will have to be addressed. This proposal provided that the Cabinet of Ministers set out the arrangements in which it would be dealt with. Accordingly, in the Labour Act, I will certainly give the following identical nature... Proposals for identical content and I will like to discuss them as appropriate within the Commission. As I have referred to the previous proposal, which was closely linked to this one, I have also withdrawn this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U75	Thank you. The proposal has therefore been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U76	Therefore, colleagues, all the proposals have been examined. Request to support the draft law “Amendments to the Sport Law” (No. 1388/Lp13) for the second final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U77	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Sport Law” in the second, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 60, for - 2 and for - 12. The law is passed. Draft law on investment firms, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U78	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues! The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined and evaluated the legislative package, a total of seven draft laws, before the third reading. The ‘Law on investment firms’ is a priority law (No. 1196/ Lp13). A total of 11 proposals were received, all from the Minister of Finance Mr. John Reira. So it's 1. - a proposal from the Minister of Finance. It is envisaged to clarify the third paragraph of Article 3 of the draft law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U79	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U80	2. - a proposal from the Minister of Finance. It is envisaged to supplement point 4 of the first paragraph of Article 6 of the draft law on investment firm initial capital with the words ‘and if that firm does not have the right to hold client money or financial instruments belonging to customers’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U81	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U82	3. - also the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. It is envisaged to supplement point 3 of the first paragraph of Article 31 of the draft law, provided that the Financial and Capital Market Commission lays down requirements for the creation of a capital and liquidity adequacy assessment process. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U83	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U84	4. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U85	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U86	5. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. The references shall be specified. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U87	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U88	6. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. The norm shall be specified in an editable manner. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U89	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U90	7. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. It is prepared to complement the draft law with the requirements of Section 133(1) of the Financial Instruments Market Act currently in force for the submission of financial statements to the Financial and Capital Market Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U91	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U92	8 / 8 - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Article 45 of the draft law shall be supplemented by the eighth paragraph in the following wording: ‘The investment firm shall prepare and submit to the Commission reports on the financial situation of the investment firm and any other accounts within the time limits set by it.’ Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U93	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U94	9. - also the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. It is envisaged to exclude the third paragraph of Article 51 of the draft law as these requirements are included in the third paragraph of Article 3. The Commission is supported by changing the numbering of the following paragraphs.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U95	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U96	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - also the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Ready to clarify the legal provision in editorial terms. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U97	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U98	11. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. The definition of transitional provisions. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U99	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U100	We have examined all 11 proposals. I therefore call for the vote to support this draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U101	Please call me! We will vote for the third, final, reading draft law on investment firms! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, Changes to the agenda of the sitting have been tabled. The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption is asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Civil Protection and Disaster Management” at first reading. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda of the sitting was amended. On the agenda - Draft Law Amending the Law on Credit Institutions, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhena‐Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U102	So this is also one of the draft laws of the legislative package. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined this draft law – Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions (No. 1197/Lp13). No proposals were received for the third reading. The Commission therefore calls for support to be given to the draft law at final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U103	Please call me! We will vote for the third, final, reading draft law on Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Financial Conglomerates’, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhena‐Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U104	This draft law is also part of the legislative package. No proposals have been received for the third reading. I therefore call for support for the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Financial Conglomerates (No. 1198/Lp13).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U105	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Financial Conglomerates, third, final, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Dear colleagues, it's time for a break. Before the break, it's a message. Forty-year anniversary was recently celebrated by our colleague Andris Skride, and we congratulate him on his round anniversary. (Applause) Thank you. Good luck! Please register the Members. Name for reading the registration results for Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U106	Colleagues! Not registered: Ieva Acuratere... is, Krista Baumane, Aldis Blumbergs, Uldis Budriķis, Boriss Cilevičs, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, Jānis Dūklavs, Krišjānis Feldmans, Jānis Krišāns, Inese Lībiņa–Egnere, Vladimirs Nikonovs, Evija Papule, Juris Pūce, Juris Rancāns, Ilga Šuplinska, Edmunds Teirumnieks and Zenta Tretjaka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U107	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U108	Colleagues, let's continue after the break. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Investment Management Companies’, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhena‐Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U109	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! We will continue to see the legislative package with the next law – “Amendments to the Law on Investment Management Companies” (No. 1199/Lp13). Eight proposals related to a Regulation and a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council were received at the third reading. So it's 1. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Further clarification of terminology is foreseen. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U110	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U111	2. - also the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. A editorial clarification shall be provided. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U112	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U113	3. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. It provides for the transposition of Directive No. Article 1(7) 2021/1270. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U114	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U115	4. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. It is envisaged to take over Directive No. Article 1(6) 2021/1270. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U116	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U117	5. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. It is intended to take over the same Directive by providing that management companies of undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities use key information documents. The Commission shall be supported by a corresponding change in the numbering of the following articles.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U118	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U119	6. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Provision shall be made for time limits. On transitional provisions. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U120	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U121	7. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. It provides for clarification of informational references to European Union directives. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U122	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U123	8 / 8 - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. This is about transitional provisions. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U124	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U125	So all the proposals have been examined. The draft law was approved by the Commission for consideration and adoption by the Saeima at its meeting. Therefore, I invite you to do so.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U126	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the third, final reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Investment Management Companies"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 59, against and refrains. The law is passed. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and their Managers’, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U127	The Budget and Finance (tax) Commission examined before the third reading the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and their Managers’ (No. 1200/Lp13). One was received at the third reading: the proposal from the Minister of Finance Mr. John Reir. It is envisaged to ensure compliance of the rules with the legal framework. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U128	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U129	We have examined all the proposals submitted for the third reading of the draft law. I therefore call for support for the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U130	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and their Managers, third, final, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 64, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on the Restoration and Resolution of the Activities of Credit Institutions and Investment firms’, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U131	This draft law is related to what has already been examined. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission also examined this draft law before the third reading. In total, eight proposals were received to take over Directive No. the corresponding points 2019/2034. In the Commission, all the proposals were supported. And now it's more detailed. 1. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. This requires a more precise implementation of the relevant directives of the European Parliament and the Council. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U132	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U133	2. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. It provides for the transposition of Article 63(2) of that directive. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U134	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U135	Proposal No 3 also relates to the above-mentioned Directive. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U136	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U137	4. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. This is also a question of transposing this same directive. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U138	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U139	5. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. This is also linked to the same directive. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U140	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U141	6. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. It addresses the issue of Directive No. Article 63(2) of Directive 2019/2034. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U142	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U143	7. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. It provides for the addition of a new Article on transitional provisions to the draft law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U144	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U145	8 / 8 - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. It provides for the exclusion of an indication of the entry into force of the law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U146	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U147	The Commission has examined and supported this draft law for third reading. I call on you to support the bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U148	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final reading of the draft law Amending the law on the recovery and resolution of the activities of credit institutions and investment firms! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one to - 67, against and refrain from - 67. The law is passed. And the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U149	This draft law is the final one of the draft laws under consideration. The commission responsible received seven proposals prior to the third reading of the draft law. 1. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. It provides for the addition of Article 1 with a sixth paragraph - with a reference to a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U150	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U151	2. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. This specifies an article which empowers the Financial and Capital Market Commission to issue regulatory provisions. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U152	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U153	3. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. It is envisaged to take over Directive No. Article 1(2), points (a), (b), (c) and (d) of 2021/1269. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U154	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U155	4. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. This is linked to the abovementioned Directive. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U156	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U157	5. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. The time limits for the entry into force of the relevant legal provisions shall be specified. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U158	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U159	6. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. The reference to Directives of the European Union is supplemented by informational references. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U160	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U161	7. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Provision shall be made to exclude the entry into force of the law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U162	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U163	All the proposals have been examined. I call on you to support the draft law at third, final, reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U164	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, final reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one to - 67, against and refrain from - 67. The law is passed. Draft law ‘Amendment to civil law’, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U165	Colleagues! See the draft law “Amendment to civil law” (No. 1413/Lp13) at first reading. This amendment to the Civil Law is related to the judgement of the Constitutional Court in the case No. 2021-05-01 “On Compliance of Para 5 of Section 242 of the Civil Law with Article 96 and Article 110 of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia”. Currently, Article 242(5) of the Civil Law provides that guardians may not be “persons punished for offences involving violence or threats of violence, regardless of the deletion or removal of criminality”. The Constitutional Court has ruled: “Recognise Article 242(5) of the Civil Law insofar as it imposes an absolute prohibition on the guardian to be a person who has been punished for a criminal offence related to violence or threat thereof - regardless of the deletion or removal of criminality, as contrary to Article 110 of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia.” The judgment also indicates that the Constitutional Court has already recognised: the fact that a person has ever been punished for a criminal offence related to violence or threats thereof does not always provide sufficient grounds for establishing that this person is threatening society and children in the long term. The behaviour of a person may change over time. Within seven to ten years of living in society without having to commit a repeated criminal offence, the risk of the large part of the persons being punished to re-occur a criminal offence falls to the level of the unpunished person’s risk. And by imposing a ban, the legislator must not rely on general presumptions, but must, as far as possible, respect the rights of the individual and contribute to the achievement of justice. This draft law justifies such changes and provides for further control by the State of such persons as guardians. The Commission therefore supported this draft law. I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U166	Thank you. Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on civil law. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U167	The deadline for submitting proposals is five days, 3 May of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U168	Thank you. So the deadline for proposals is 3 May this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Land Guard of the Republic of Latvia”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Ivan Klementjev.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U169	Good morning again! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Land Guard of the Republic of Latvia” (No. 1409/Lp13), first reading. The purpose of the amendments is to define actions for the involvement of landguards in the 72-hour preparedness tests, as well as actions in the event of a state of emergency or a time of war. The draft law provides for the transfer of national guards to the active service as a soldier in the event of mobilisation (in the case of an exceptional state or war), as well as in the case where the Cabinet of Ministers takes a decision on the mobilisation of national guards prior to the accession of the special legal regime in the country. Taking into account the fact that the service in the Earthguard is significantly different from the location in the National Armed Forces Reserve, the landguards will not be called in the active service in accordance with the mobilisation of reserve soldiers and reserve forces. The transfer of landguards to the active service will take place in a simplified order to be determined by the Minister of Defence. Since the exceptional legal regime can only be extended to a separate part of the territory of the State, Section 4(7) of the Law provides for the possibility to decide on the partial mobilisation of the landguards by subjecting the other landguards to the enhanced preparedness regime. In order to ensure smooth and rapid mobilisation of the landguards prior to the announcement of the special legal regime in the country, the draft law provides for an obligation for the employer to exempt the landguard to be mobilised from the performance of his duties without paying him remuneration, as the landguard, after the completion of his mobilisation process, acquires the status of a soldier temporarily and receives the salary for the soldier. The mobilisation of landguards can be both general (all landguards can be mobilised) and partial (landguards in a particular region can be mobilised). In the case of partial mobilisation, part of the Landguards will be mobilised, while the other part will be assigned a regime of increased readiness, which is not a mobilisation, but a preparatory phase for mobilisation, which is provided for in the Law on Mobility, and is to be determined in order to ensure the operational involvement of the Landguards in the fight structures of the NBS in order to overcome the threat in its early phase. Landguards in advanced preparedness may be mobilised at any time. It is planned to apply administrative responsibility to the landguard for the avoidance of the enhanced preparedness regime. The enhanced readiness regime shall indicate the duty of the landguard to be ready within a specified time upon request of the Landguard to arrive at the place of service and to start fulfilling the tasks provided for in the State Defence Plan or the National Defence Operational Plan of the relevant regime to ensure national protection. Until the Land Guard has received a request for arrival of the Land Guard Unit, he continues to work and perform other daily work under the restrictions imposed by the regime, such as the obligation to be reachable and not leave the territory of the Republic of Latvia. It is planned to apply administrative responsibility to the landguard for the avoidance of the enhanced preparedness regime. It is a preventive measure that ensures a more responsible attitude of the landguards towards the enhanced preparedness regime. The amount of the penalty for the landguard will not differ from the administrative penalty set for the soldier for absence from military training. At the same time, categories of persons subject to the rules on the mobilisation of landguards and the regime of increased readiness are listed. In addition, the draft law provides for martial law tests for up to 72 hours every two years, which will enable the NBS to determine its ability to mobilise the necessary resources. During such inspections it is planned to learn the procedure of notification, the procedure of assembly, the procedure of personnel to be provided with equipment, location outside the location of the unit and deployment according to the task. During the verification, the ability of the Land Guard Teams to perform the relevant task will be verified. The draft law was supported by the Commission. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U170	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Republic of Latvia on Land Guards” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 70, it's against and abstains. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U171	Deadline for the submission of proposals - two weeks, 12 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U172	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 12 May this year. Draft law “Amendment to the National Security Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Ivan Klementjev.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U173	We consider the draft law “Amendment to the Law on National Security” (No. 1410/Lp13) at first reading. The draft law is very closely related to the previous draft law, which provides for amendments to the Law on Land Guard of the Republic of Latvia. It has been developed at the initiative of the Ministry of Defence and the National Armed Forces. Objective - to determine the right of the Cabinet of Ministers to decide on the exposure of landguards to the regime of increased readiness. In particular, before launching a special legal regime in the country, the Cabinet of Ministers will be able to decide on the total or partial mobilisation of the landguards, including only part of the total number of landguards and the rest of the landguards accordingly maintained in the enhanced readiness regime. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U174	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on National Security Act at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 69, against and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U175	Deadline for the submission of proposals - two weeks, 12 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U176	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 12 May this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Mobility”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Ivan Klementjev.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U177	We examine the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Mobility” (No. 1411/Lp13), first reading. The draft law provides for the addition of the list of preparations for mobilisation to the regime of state guards, as well as provides for the possibility for the Cabinet to organise battle preparedness tests for a period of up to 72 hours. Landguards under the enhanced preparedness regime are immediately mobilised in the event of an escalation of the situation. The enhanced readiness regime is thus a preparatory phase for mobilisation, which must be provided for in the Mobility Act. The preparedness checks are planned to be conducted no more than every two years. During such inspections it is planned to learn the procedure of notification, the procedure of assembly, the procedure of personnel to be provided with equipment, location outside the location of the unit and deployment according to the task. The unit's ability to perform the relevant tasks shall be checked during the training. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U178	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Mobility”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 70, it's against and abstains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U179	Deadline for the submission of proposals - two weeks, 12 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U180	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 12 May this year. Draft law amending the Criminal Law (No. 1412/Lp13), first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Edgars Tavars.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U181	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Draft law amending the Criminal Law (No. 1412/Lp13) is closely related to the draft laws supported at first reading “Amendments to the Law on Land Guard of the Republic of Latvia” and “Amendments to the Law on Mobility”. The amendments that have been prepared concern the landguards that are being mobilised. In particular, the second paragraph of Section 282.1 of the Criminal Law provides for amendments specifying the criminal responsibility of the state guards for avoiding mobilisation. This liability is stipulated in the law in a similar way to that of the reserve and reserve soldiers. The total amount of the penalty is determined by analogy. Please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U182	Thank you. Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on criminal law. Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one to - 67, against and refrain from - 67. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U183	On behalf of the Commission, the deadline for the submission of proposals is two weeks, or until 12 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U184	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 12 May this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Wexley Act”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Jānis Cielēns.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U185	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! At its meeting on 20 April this year, the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission has examined and prepared for the first reading a draft law “Amendments to the Vekselis Law” (No. 1401/Lp13). I will describe the most important amendments that concern this law. They intend to close the gap in the regulation of bills, as well as in cases where the regulation of the law on bank notes is abused - fraud and signature forgery. The draft law provides special protection for natural persons. It provides for the form of a notary act for ordinary bills issued by natural persons, as well as for the exclusion of natural persons from the traject of membership. Natural persons will no longer be able to pass the tragedy and to be the payer after the tragedy. Traces will only be in commercial circulation. There is a distinction between opposition procedures for tragic and simple bills. By specifying the first paragraph of Article 75, the amount by which a single note may be issued shall be limited by providing that a single note may be issued up to an amount of EUR 15 000. A longer period was foreseen for protest due to a simple bill of exchange - 20 days; in the past it was two working days, giving the... the time for the inspection of the document to comply with the obligation prior to the delivery of the statement of opposition. Similarly, the requirement regarding the means of communication of information will be clarified, there will be no possibility to make an oral statement of opposition, only in writing, notary will invite persons in writing to comply with the obligation on a bill of exchange. The Commission unanimously supported this draft law. On behalf of the Commission, I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U186	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Wexel Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 70, it's against and abstains. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U187	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading shall be two weeks - until 12 May of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U188	Thank you. So the deadline for proposals is 12 May this year. Draft law “Amendments to Labour Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Normunds Gunna.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U189	Hello, colleagues! On 19 April, at first reading, the Social and Labour Commission examined the draft law “Amendments to the Labour Law”. The draft law was designed first of all to meet the first point of task 102 of the Government Action Plan, which states: ‘Improving the legal framework for work-life balance creates conditions for the equal involvement of both parents in the care of children and other family members’. Second, the draft law takes over the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on transparent and predictable working conditions in the European Union and the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on work-life balance for parents and carers. Third, following the formal notification by the European Commission of 15 July 2021 in an infringement case, where most of the claim was rejected by the State of Latvia, it is necessary, however, to clarify Articles 14.1 and 75.2 of the Law in order to ensure compliance with the requirements of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on the enforcement of the Directive on the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services, as well as Article 9 on administrative requirements and control measures and Article 12 on the liability of subcontractors. Fourthly, on 12 November 2020, the Constitutional Court adopted a judgment in the case “On Compliance of Section 155(1) of the Labour Law with the First Sentence of Article 110 of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia”, which provided for the recognition of Section 155(1) of the Labour Law as incompatible with the first sentence of Article 110 of the Satversme and invalid as from 2 June 2022. Accordingly, it is necessary to amend Article 155 of the law in order to ensure that the judgment is enforced. The draft law “Amendments to the Labour Law” was approved by the Social and Labour Affairs Commission. Therefore, colleagues, I also call on you to support this at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U190	Thank you. Please call me! Let's vote on the bill... I'm sorry, it's started... Members have applied for a debate. The name to Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U191	Thank you, Mrs. Mourniece. So this is the moment, colleagues, when the Labour Law is open. The rapporteur mentioned that the draft law on "Amendments to Labour Law" provided for a rather broad scope. This will be the moment we can, colleagues, take care of athletes. This issue was perhaps not exactly correct in the draft law on Sport law, but the draft law on Labour law is the place where we can debate it and, as I said, this social security is essential. That is why, colleagues, I will also call on the Commission to debate these proposals, to call on the industry to make the discussion more qualitative. So it is for the verbatim report that I wanted to mention that there will also be a question of the legal relationship between athletes - at last! - regulation and that we can achieve fair regulation within the framework of the Labour Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U192	Thank you. I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U193	There is nothing to add on behalf of the Commission. I call for support to be given to the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U194	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Labour Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 69, against and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U195	The deadline for submitting proposals is 12 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U196	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 12 May this year. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Energy Act’ (No. 1368/Lp13), second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Sandis Riekstins. Dear colleagues, Member Ilze Indricsone has provided information that she withdraws the proposals 3, 7 and 22 of this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U197	Hello, colleagues! At second reading, we will consider the draft law on "Amendments to the Energy Act" (No. 1368/Lp13). 22 proposals were submitted to the second reading. 1. - Proposal by Ilze Indricksone, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics. It provides for clarification of the term ‘reserves’ used in the draft law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U198	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U199	2. - Proposal by Ilze Indricksone, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics. The term ‘strategic reserves for natural gas’ used in the draft law will be clarified. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U200	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U201	Proposal 3 has been withdrawn. 4. - Member Nemir's proposal. Article 15 of the draft law shall be supplemented by a ninth paragraph. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U202	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U203	5. - Member Nemir's proposal. Article 15 of the draft law shall be supplemented by a tenth paragraph. The Commission was also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U204	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U205	6. - Proposal by Ilze Indricksone, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics. In point 3 of the first paragraph of Article 64, the word ‘security’ shall be replaced by the word ‘strategic’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U206	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U207	Proposal 7 has therefore been withdrawn. 8 / 8 - Proposal by Ilze Indricksone, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics. Article 99 shall be supplemented by paragraph 8. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U208	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U209	9. - Proposal by Ilze Indricksone, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics. Article 100 shall be supplemented by paragraph 7. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U210	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U211	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Proposal by Ilze Indricksone, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics. Article 101.1 shall be supplemented by paragraph 7. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U212	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U213	11. - the proposal of the Members Reinis Znotiņš and Jānis Cielēns that the supply of natural gas from the Russian Federation is prohibited. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U214	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U215	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Let me outline a little what is happening now with our energy, with our strategic element, our strategic energy security. Currently, Latvia transfers around EUR 400 million each year to Russia for gas. 400 million euros every year - it's equal... with about 100 modern Russian tanks. Imagine: each of you, Members of the Saeima, transfer over one modern Russian tank within a year, give it back to the Russian side: “Please!” ( Internouncing call.) We are in principle sponsoring Russia for a long time. We sponsor Russia's aggression, and that is unacceptable. More than 90 percent - more than 90 percent! - we have bought gas from Russia, without being able to significantly diversify it... years, decades. When we talk about electricity, now we as Latvia produce about 75 percent of electricity ourselves. You could produce a lot more to be strategically independent and safe, wouldn't you? I recommend that we look a little bit at the history before the vote, as we have reached that point. Here I am looking at the ZZS and remember a thing like - let's gasify our households, let's make our households more dependent on Russian gas. Let's go! Where is Mr. Kalvitis, prime minister of the ZZS, led by “Latvijas Gas”. Then I look (Interior; in the hall of noise.) ... I'm looking... I'm looking further. In order to ensure energy independence, we had the opportunity to build a nuclear power plant together with Lithuanians. And here I look at the YOUNG Unity. There was an opportunity to build - we refused, we shouldn't have had a nuclear power plant. ( Milestones.) I'm looking further: the liquefied gas terminal in Klaipeda. Lithuanians have invited us to diversify our gas supplies and get involved in this project. UNIFORMITY did not support this initiative. ( Intercretion: “Calvary! ”) ) Finally, liquefied gas - here in Latvia. We have called for the construction of a liquefied gas terminal in Latvia for five years, emphasising dependence on Russia and strategic security. For five years it was necessary for the war in Ukraine to continue from 2014 and to strengthen now so that we finally accept this offer at government level, really think about our liquefied gas terminal where it is possible to import liquefied gas from Norway, from the USA, from Qatar and other countries. Colleagues, it is time to wake up, it is time to wake up from a long winter sleep, from a long winter sleep in the couch. It is time to wake up, and it is time to end this energy dependence on Russia. I am very pleased, and I am truly grateful to those Members of the Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy who supported my and Janis Cielen's proposal to give up Russian gas, not to sponsor Russian aggression, not to sponsor Russian state and to be energy independent. Colleagues, I call on you to support... I call upon you to think in the long term, strategic (interface.) and go to the largest possible increase in the production capacity here in Latvia, in terms of electricity and gas... diversification when buying gas from friendly countries. I call for support for the proposal. (Applause) Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U216	The name to Member Ralph Nemir. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U217	Dear colleagues, The proposal concerning the ban on the purchase of gas from Russia is correct. That is - all the more so - in line with our National Energy and Climate Plan, in which we intend to give up gas at all... at the time when it is possible. Of course, in Europe this trend is intended to be gradual. 2050 is defined as the year when we do not use gas in our energy mix at all. Gas and fossil fuels. Very simple - so in fact we have our resources. It's a slice (interface) , these are granules; and in any case we can use this resource to be completely energy-efficient regardless of any country. Russia, the United States, Qatar and other natural gas suppliers were called here... They are, in any case, imported energy resources. Therefore, if we want to address this issue fundamentally, it is not a story that we are beginning to develop gas infrastructure in some way, independently of our Baltic neighbours. I will remind you that the gas market is already interconnected. We are connected to Finland, we are connected to Estonia, we are connected to Lithuania, and in May we will be connected to Poland. Poland has further plans to connect with Denmark, Denmark - to further connect with Norway, and Norway, as we know, is a direct gas supplier, a friendly gas supplier. Consequently, if we say that we prohibit the purchase of gas, it is a political decision. In fact, it is already being implemented, and the government has been working on this issue. Two terawatts have been bought or, to be precise, two terawatts have been reserved for this energy, which will come from countries other than Russia. Now, of course, this issue is being addressed. We in Parliament can make such a decision, and that is obviously a symbolic decision. Yeah, it's true that the Russian Federation's budget is about 50 percent... 56 per cent of energy exported. And that is how we finance the budget of the Russian Federation in general. But I would remind you that, if we do not buy gas from Russia, we will anyway sponsor the budget of another country. That is why we must, in any case, move towards renewable energy. Sun, wind, fiber - all the resources that we can produce in our own country, leaving money in the Latvian economy. That is why this is an important direction. We may have gone ahead in this case precisely in the implementation of the National Energy and Climate Plan. It must be said that it has always been sad that the government, when planning budgets, when planning our energy infrastructure, has not looked at the National Energy and Climate Plan. Now is a very good time for us to talk about this activity here, from the parliamentary tribunal, and for the government to hear exactly this aspect. Therefore, colleagues, if we are talking about reducing fossil fuels, this is a step. But the question is, do we need to develop infrastructure for fossil fuels? I don't think so. We need to develop a local resource, that resource in our country. But I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U218	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U219	Dear colleagues, After Mr Znotiņš spoke, it is of course appropriate to comment a little on this proposal. To avoid any misunderstandings, I will say straight away: we will certainly support this proposal. However, in a way, I would like to turn to my colleagues. One is to deal with such political demands - we are refusing, we are fighting for our national interests, we are fighting for one gas terminal, new construction. All of this is understandable. However, in my view, our government is doing too little to use our local resources. Our government is doing too little to really think about alternatives at this point; so that, at this point, not only bring forward such proposals, which are, but also to take care of it... and put a maximum pressure - maximum pressure! - to other European countries, so that they do not continue... You're talking about us... How much did Mr. Znotins say? One hundred tanks a month, Russia can buy... We remember that raw materials are still going through our ports from the authorised companies, which I am talking about. Our ports still have raw materials going through... About these alternatives. Colleagues, alternatives... We have a local resource that is not being identified at the moment, and that will be what the Group of the Greens/Earths Union will present to you next week a legislative package to support it. If you talk about what someone has done, then we have a whole range of cities under our supervision, where at the city level... We've given up years ago... already in 2014 we started this abandonment of Russian gas. I'm sorry... You are currently in power in Riga. I do not see any logical solution in Riga to give up Russian gas. Unfortunately, I can't see! Colleagues, this dependence on natural gas is quite high. If we're moving around to create some alternative... Yes, I think one of the biggest problems at the moment is that it is the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development who does not see this alternative; the Minister should think more about using local resources as an opportunity. We are now seeing a rise in the prices of chips. There will also be an increase in costs. If we go along this path of sanctions... I support this in every way, but we must put the maximum pressure on it to be implemented throughout Europe, not just here in Latvia. If we do not manage to ban this Russian gas across Europe, then we will be the biggest losers of it. We will be the ones who will suffer the most. Our citizens will be the ones who will suffer the most. And we need to think about the natural alternatives that we can use with local resources. In particular, I am now talking about resources such as peat. The baby is forgotten, no one talks about the peat at all. Everyone is talking only about the existence of some kind of guidelines - the European Commission's various guidelines; it has said no to this resource in Europe. At the same time, however, I see Poland achieving the defence of its interests with regard to coal, which is exactly the same resource. Poland is currently opening its hidden mines. And they know how they will compensate for this shortage of Russian gas and how they will compensate for the cost of other, alternative, solutions. They have a vision. Unfortunately, we only have... For the time being, I will allow you to say, we are going with political slogans without offering a real alternative; for us only one political project - the LNG terminal in Skulte, which is being treasured everywhere, but there is no mathematical calculation - at least for the Saeima Members - that it will really be a little more or more good for us. It doesn't happen that this project will be for generations... future generations will have to pay for this project! Colleagues, there are many questions, but one thing is clear: if we go this way, then it is just as important to us as today, in the Saeima, when we vote... It is important to ensure that not only Latvia, but also Lithuania, Germany, France, Italy and other countries, implement the same approach. If this is not the case, we will be great losers - large losers: then we will fight for democracy, while others will continue to feed the Russian army with financial resources directly from this gas. That is what we need to achieve. Unfortunately, I do not see active action from our politicians, ministers, to combat it. I call for this to be done.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U220	Thank you. The name to Member Rainis Znotiņš for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U221	Colleagues! The question has been raised here: what to do next? What to do next: after we have given up Russian gas? First of all, it is necessary to promote the increase of our energy capacity. We can look, let's say, at wind parks. And if we compare the three Baltic countries, we can see that in Latvia the capacity produced by wind parks is the lowest in the Baltic States. We have a huge opportunity to build wind parks and produce not only 100 percent of our energy needs, but 150 percent. Next. Recovery and resilience mechanism. Colleagues, two billion European funds have fallen almost as from the air of the community. Two billion European funds could be used, as we would like, on the basis of the green exchange rate (Interface). , with due regard for energy independence and other matters. Of these two billion, virtually nothing was directed towards generating energy capacity - the construction of wind farms, the construction of nuclear power plants - and so on, and so on. This money can still be redistributed, it can be re-used, and I have also called on the Public Expenditure and Audit Commission to review and re-allocate it, to shift it to energy generation projects. This can be done; the government has every opportunity to take such a decision and move forward. Mr. Valaiņš mentioned here - what Riga is doing to get rid of Russian gas. However, I want to explain that Riga is doing. Two new chips stations are currently under construction in Riga to promote the use of chips for central heating in Riga, gradually withdrawing from Russian gas. These stations are being built in an accelerated order, which was previously planned for a much longer period of time. This has significantly changed the situation in Riga. So it is a good initiative from the management of “Riga heat” as well. So, colleagues, a couple things. Let's review the restoration...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U222	Thank you, thank you. It's over. Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U223	You have just spoken about this reconstruction fund. Well, whatever it may be, but it's the reconstruction fund... It was the document against which a number of non-governmental organisations objected, pointing out that their participation in the drafting of this document, their participation in the way two billion euros were distributed in Latvia, was practically nothing. They did not listen, and to some extent there was a small local scandal. Business organisations were, they were municipal organizations... And by large, this money was distributed politically. If any of these money-sharingrs come to this platform today and say that something has been done wrong... I am sorry, colleagues - you were the very ones who distributed this money. You were the ones who evaluated where this money was to be invested. And now you see what the consequences are. So... Well, if we're talking about these slices of boilers that are being made in Riga, I think it's also a question of where... more thought should be given to the use of local resources. And not only there. So, my colleagues, I call you to think. We need to think about how to achieve - as effectively as possible - that these decisions, which we are taking here today, also apply to the other Member States of the European Union. It cannot be that Germany is now calmly saying that they will continue to buy Russian gas. We need to talk not only about gas today; we also need to talk about the fact that we need to review the whole European green course as such. The European green course was based on Russian gas. It's a reality! The whole green course was based on Russian gas - Nord Stream 2 project! This is the thing that we now need to seriously review - how all these fundamental changes will have an impact on our own economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U224	Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U225	Colleagues! This time I would like to appeal to more members of the coalition, because it was very comical: to listen to how two billion were to be used correctly; for these, two billion could have developed alternative energy sources, terminals and anything. You decided and spent that money as you spent it. That's why... Well, don't talk stupid here! If you're talking about gas... I really do not want Russian gas to buy, and I call for it to work in such a way that it does not have to be bought. But here I want to refer again to the coalition leader, Mr. Karin. Every time, or almost every time he is on television, he is talking about solidarity: we must have solidarity at European level, we must have solidarity with Ukraine. Everything is very right, but let us remember the gas market. Latvia is not alone in the gas market. We are in a single market with Estonia, with Finland. And in this case also with Lithuania. But more needs to be looked at indeed in the direction of Estonia and Finland, because there are the largest gas pipelines at present. And if we talk about solidarity, the Finns must also give up Russian gas, the Estonians must also give up Russian gas. And I want to see Finland refuse right away, when we have made that decision. Otherwise, thanks to the coalition proposal, there may be a very unpleasant situation: Latvia is giving up Russian gas, we are concluding that there are not enough alternative sources for us yet, and we will buy from Finland gas, which the Finns will have bought from Russia. Do you want to do this? I don't want us to buy Russian gas through Finland. I want us to give up Russia's gas at all. And that is why I have a call on your politicians, who are now in the government, to go to Finland, to Estonia and, indeed, to deal with these things in a spirit of solidarity. And come here to the Saeima with a bill, clearly saying that it is a joint, joint and several decision of the Baltic States and Finland. So we don't have to try somewhere to run first, shoot ourselves in the foot and then continue... secretly buy Russian gas... or - not secretly... paying some intermediaries. And I will also remind you that the Norwegian-Polish gas pipeline really works. The connection will be with Lithuania and we can buy Norwegian gas. We do not need to buy Russian gas. If you are talking about a LNG terminal, then there is a question: when will it be built in Latvia? Not this year, not next year. The Paldics will start operating in the autumn... If you want some political, corrupt schemes, then of course you can develop the Skulte terminal and charge all Latvian citizens a second OIK when Latvenergo enters into a fixed price agreement. I really call for more thought. This example, which Mr Valaiņš mentioned about peat, is a very good one. Fueled peat in Latvia is for a very long time, but we don't use it for any reason. Do you know why we are not using it? Because Europe has said that peat is fossil fuels. Unlike coal, the peat layer recovers and grows, because the sphagnes grow every year; it grows slowly, but grows. The baby is not fossil fuels! And peat is the energy richness of Latvia, which is in our bogs. And you know that in the bogs where peat is obtained for gardening, the top layer is removed, the bottom remains the black fuel peat that no one is using, it remains there and is standing there. So why can't we use it? I remember that somewhere figurine figures that in Latvia peat is available for 80 years so that we can fuel it and thus ensure energy independence. We use a slice, we use a peat! And stop putting forward proposals here that actually support Russia's gas purchases through other countries! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U226	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U227	Dear President, Honourable Members! Some comments on what has been said here. Latvia did not refuse the construction of any nuclear power plant, but in Lithuania there was a referendum initiated by the Greens and supported by the Government, and in that referendum, which was not mandatory, but was observed by the Lithuanian Government, the majority voted for the need for this nuclear power plant. Of course, there was an campaign on the green side to hold this referendum, which, as we know now, was financed by the relevant stakeholders who trade gas from Russia. Well, logically, I'm in agreement there, but... pressure was high. Next. You shouldn't talk about stupidity about wind power. I recommend that all Members read the publication at the end of March... ‘in the day’... Valdis Gavars, the outstanding Latvian physicist, published in “SestDien”, interview with Egīls Zirnis. Valdis Guvars, if anyone doesn't know, was the main engineer in the Salaspils nuclear reactor for 30 years. He has 15 international patents in different countries. And he says clearly and lightly: there's nothing else if we don't want to use fossil energy sources, but just the new small nuclear reactors, the ones that are built on ships and the different... For example, in polar stations you may be able to use it. And recently, such small reactors have been developed in different countries, and they are not expensive. Estonia is currently working on this, which has already entered into a contract. On wind energy he says: it's the greatest stupidity, because it's dissipated energy. Who haven't studied physics... And unfortunately, the new generation no longer learns physics in school... And two years ago - the sad experience of the summer: when there was no wind for two months and this energy could not be accumulated, it actually led to a disaster and an increase in energy prices - even before the Russian war. Why? Because in countries such as Germany or Denmark, where wind energy was already over 10 percent... And Britain took action to fuel coal power plants. And, of course, Swedes run their liquid oil power stations successfully. And so on. That is, as this physicist says, you need to keep exactly the same capacity in reserve. Now we hear on the radio... There Mrs Blumberg and a whole line of other people say: when the wind blows a frog, we produce hydrogen, and then we make electricity from that hydrogen, and again everything will be fine. Unfortunately, such technologies will not be developed for another decade. So that nothing else stays for us, as it said here... Oh, and that's the wrong data... I can fix it: with regard to peat, Mr. Valaiņš, the data is much better. We have 230 million fuel peat reserves... Of which 30 million are where the top layer of agricultural peat has already been milling, it can be taken, but the problem is different. ‘ Latvenergo has completely destroyed the infrastructure - there are no rails, no wagons, no everything else. The Finland uses peat (the peat in the Finnish balance accounts for 3 per cent), coal (6 per cent) and petroleum products (about 11 per cent or 12 per cent). With six nuclear reactors, the Finnishs have 21 percent fossil energy. The Latvians, the singles, of course, have destroyed everything and, subject to all these directives, let us say, directives, we are the shockers in the implementation of the green course. Now let's make solar panels for households and so on. Unfortunately, in those residential areas built in Soviet times, the entire farm in the apartments is on gas. You have to cook. Well, what are we gonna replace this gas with? With balloons or something... I support this proposal. We should not buy gas from Russia during the war. And let us hope that Russia will split up after this war and we will be able to buy gas from the Republic of East Siberia or from the Republic of Yakutia... At the same time, however, there should not be much illusions about the fact that the liquefied gas will be carried here. If you look at the statistics, then... The Liberal International forced the U.S. Democratic Party and the Baden Administration to reduce... Of the some 650-700 billion cubic metres that they obtained per year, cut by half, because all shale oil and gas extraction in the US was closed and they only produce half of it there. And if any of you don't know, look at the statistics. Then, before Russia's invasion into Ukraine, the USA itself imported both liquefied gas from Russia when it needed to be in winter (let's remember, Texas) and oil. I have already mentioned here that a debate is taking place at the US Congress on how to buy this oil from Venezuela now. So the fantasy that we can replace... We're not going to replace much. If someone thinks we're going to build one, two or so... new terminals here...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U228	Thank you, thank you. The speaking time is over. Yeah, thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U229	... And why should we take care of Finland, then nothing will happen, because Qatar imports 120...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U230	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U231	Dear colleagues, Ladies and gentlemen! I supported this proposal in the Commission, I will support it now, but I wanted to point out that we actually... that is a symbolic decision, because what we are discussing today is about that: either we will be able to make this decision before Russia turns us off from gas or back then. Because if we are not ready to buy gas in the future and pay in the rubles, then, as you say, everything is clear what will happen. We see this already in Poland and Bulgaria. So it's... I call on you to support this decision. If we talk about solutions, how we manage, if we look at, as we say, in the perspective of tomorrow, then we have a reserve and a natural miracle - the Inčukalns repository - it is tomorrow's problems. Daytime problems - you need to participate in a faster project, which is in cooperation with Finnishs and Estonians. But if we look back - in the long term - then the first thing we should think about is not how we will draw some other gas to a port in Latvia, but how we will manage our resources. As has already been mentioned, we have another very great natural wealth - peat. I would remind you that TEC1 was once fueled with peat, it is no uniqueness in Latvia. It has been said that we will have 80 years of peat resources. In fact - much more if we put on the Daugava Cascade and potential wind possibilities... which could be built in the future, because these projects, which are currently in place, are being implemented. With the missing energy section using peat, we have enough for two centuries. It's a condition that we use the peat that we've known. By the way, this is one huge question, as says, with a 30-year-long beard. Latvia has never known its peat resources in an in-depth study. The Dutch and Germans who acquire it here are more aware of our peat resources than Latvia. We have never evaluated the volume of our peat with wells. What we are talking about - 80 or 100 years - is superficially conscious. That's the direction. I do not remember who correctly pointed out that peat is not a fossil, that peat resources in the world are increasing from year to year rather than decreasing. It is simply a natural cycle of the development of the earth. After all, the green course was also mentioned. I completely agree. Here is one interesting nuance why we in Latvia call this case the green course. The course is something ideological, perhaps even religious. In English it is called Green Deal, a ‘green deal’. Let's translate what we want... ‘arrangement’... The agreement may always be revised when circumstances change. I think that we should be quite clear that the circumstances have changed - and changed in our case, Latvia, for a long time. We are on the European peripheral side of the Iron Curtain. It will have to be done by itself, we have the opportunities. So that I would call for not so much to talk about symbolic decisions, just to make them quickly, but really to debate here, in the government and elsewhere about how we take them seriously in the long term, in the middle and tomorrow... those challenges that are objectively ahead of us, even regardless of these decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U232	Thank you. The name to the Member Atm Lejny.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U233	Dear Bureau! Thank you, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, Here we are being called on by Viktor Valainis to travel to Brussels and now teach Brussels that we cannot stand out on our own, that Europe also needs to do so, but I want to point out that nothing else does happen in Brussels... exactly how to give up Russian gas. By the way, it was the European Commission that asked Germany to close Gazprom 2... Each Member State in the European Union is now trying to get gas wherever possible. It turns out that there is gas coming from Azerbaijan through Turkey to Greece, now... are connected to Italy. Italy is trying to get gas from Morocco, from Algeria. Everybody's looking for gas. And the European Union has already said that it is based... By the end of the year, that Russian gas imports will already be rather negligible. Germany too. And Germany will probably switch to coal. But what would I like to say? We don't have to deliver any gas from Russia anymore, well, that's what it's about! Since June, Russia no longer sells us gas. There was a pretty loud event that now... Russia has told Poland and Bulgaria that it will not sell gas, but we already have it, and it is better that we now say it than we expect Putin to say that it will not sell... So that I call for support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U234	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U235	Dear President, Honourable Members! I'm sorry I'm ruining some of your illusions. I'm just watching statistics - Europe consumes more than 400, imports billion cubic metres, and Russia, which produces more than 600 billion, we refuse... So the next one is Iran with 230. And beyond: Qatar - 175, Norway - 120, Algeria was mentioned here... some 60 to 90 depending on the year, Turkmenistan - only 40. In other words, even these three countries together are unable to deliver European consumption. What is the conclusion? A modern boiler can be built in three to four months. Of course, we cannot reorganize Riga, but all municipalities have to re-arrange really to a slice and peat within three to four months. Note that this kind of boiler is 700 - 700 at the same capacity! - times smaller than the corresponding power of wind rotors. So we do not pollute the Latvian landscape, we do not smoke territory, forests and agricultural land. And there's nothing else. Latvia has no other way of reducing consumption from ten twelve terawatt-hours per year to some six seven. So to bring home just... And we don't play illusions: we can't buy more than one ship. This year we can no longer buy liquefied gas at all, only in the fourth quarter. With the plagues we can get one ship. So tell me about Finland and every other stupid thing... Therefore, we are realists and start doing something, and we don't become fantasies. We can't get anything more than one to two ships next year. There's no liquid gas!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U236	Thank you. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U237	This issue is not just about gas. It is about energy at all, and this is, as is the case now, and it is foolish to talk about gas and not to talk about electricity at the moment. So I want to touch both. First, in Latvia electricity is produced and then sold through mystical intermediaries - not stored, but sold HES, and then bought at a expensive price in winter. As a result, we pay... our people are paying the high price of electricity in Scandinavia again. That's very interesting, isn't it. ( Internouncing call.) Secondly, we had a head of state in our country, Ulmanis. You love it, National Association, Ulmanis. Ulmanis built HES to be cheaper energy for Latvian citizens. What has this authority built in 20 years, this authority of Unity? ( Interface: “Library! ” ) The world’s most expensive library or Guinness recordable bridge, and that’s it. ( Interface: “On the proposal at all! ” ) That is why it is absolutely clear that when this power will change in Latvia, we need to talk about electricity in two sections as an energy component. It is a new HES, which will be built by Gobzem. ( Milestones.) Just like Ulmanis built it will also build HES in Gobzem. ( Interface: “Where is it? ” ; methacrylics.) Where was... where the project was, it will be built. You need to look further. That's one thing. And the other thing...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U238	Thank you for your proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U239	Each and every - the state will help each and every one to produce electricity at home. Let's put solar panels on everyone for public money! Talk about gas. By the way, we have the Dobele gas storage. Dobele gas storage we have... It's hard to say the amount, but let's say between 5 and 11 billion somewhere. Five billion cubic metres could be in the Dobele gas storage. It's big enough... Not just Incukalns. But if I built Dobele... we could reduce costs for Latvian citizens by keeping gas with us, which we could continue to trade. Is that not the case? Don't think narrowly, we should not think that we will now give up Russian gas, then we will buy the same Russian gas from Germany or Finland and we will have done all things. If the whole of the European Union does not leave it together and does not start to buy elsewhere, then we will do exactly as the Poles and Bulgarians will do at the moment: it will buy the same gas, just at a more expensive price. Is that not the case? That is so, and we have to talk about it. It is clear that we will have some energy problems in the short and medium term. But that's why I started this talk about electricity. Why do people in Latvia have to pay so much for electricity? You promised. How long did you promise to cancel the OIC? You've promised everything all the time, you haven't done anything. ( Internouncing call.) I'm not talking about OIC... He also promised, among other things, that he would be the great OIC, and he did not cancel it. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. (D. Schmit’s intermediate call.) What? Wasn't that so, Schmidt? It was. ( Insight: “Gobzem also... “ And one more thing about electricity speaking. Why... Combine the time, please, me too. Why in Latvia...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U240	A request is made to bring together the time of the debate. The times of the debate are combined according to the Rules of Procedure, but I call for the proposal to be discussed.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U241	Why is Latvenergo made in Latvia to be a company with a mega-profit? In fact, it should be a non-profit enterprise so that less electricity is made available to entrepreneurs so that cheaper electricity and energy are made available to people, households. In fact, for Latvenergo to be the only one who has funds, let us say, for investment development, rather than an additional tax on electricity for people and businesses. This is one of the reasons why entrepreneurs leave Latvia, why people leave Latvia. Because we have expensive energy resources. Because the power of Unity has stolen us “on energy”. Mr. Cole, your dad has stolen on OIC, I think. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Col’s intermediate call.) I think so.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U242	Please make the following insults... If you have any information, turn to the law enforcement authorities. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Kohl.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U243	I think OIC businessman is your dad. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Cols: “Ley! Annoyance... “)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U244	So the name to the Member, Maris Možville. The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Cole's intermediate calls. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville. Please do not come here to talk to the parliamentary tribunal with unchecked insults. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Coll: “You didn’t have to tell me... Think what you're talking about!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U245	Please combine the times.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U246	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U247	Hello, Speaker of the Saeima! Hello, colleagues! I understand that. — Dep. Gobzem: “What are you worried about?” ; dep. Col: “I’m not worried. You have to worry. Before the Court will also ever come up for your statements!” )... I understand that the topics are much more topical at the moment in the hall than what I want to say. But I'll try. Colleagues, we need to be aware of two really very important things: one in the short term; the other in the long term. I'll start with a short time. We are not going to give up the gas from Russia for twenty years - I agree that this has to be done - to give up the gas needle. What is the result? The result is that at present there are very many settlements, cities where gas is accessed... gas arrives, is “pushed” on gas needles and is highly dependent, especially during the heating season, on gas. To solve this problem now and this blue flame disappears, we need to offer a source of heat that we believe... that we have, and we can burn, we can get. And there's that short-term problem. We're up too late. I come from a sector that deals with wood, split, wood, and I know what it requires both in technical provision, in the performance of work, and in the supply and supply of this material. And here is the first short, narrow story, or narrow neck of the bottle. Currently, if Latvia decided to switch completely to heating with a chips... We don't have the equipment to get the fiber. We do not have the equipment to get a slice and we do not have a lot of jobs, because although this process is mechanising, but - not to the extent that we can work a couple of people and get this energy. Currently, one very popular and large Latvian manufacturing company (belong to Riga) wants to switch from gas to chips. They will realize it, but this means that this company will need a large amount of chips, which is very close to what is currently consumed in Riga. There are cities that have also used a chip for heating, and because of the problems that I have mentioned - both technical and purely life-dicted - they have had to pull their belts together, to reduce the amount of heating, because there is simply a lack of material. Now a long-term problem. The long-term problem arises now that the green course or green shell has been firmly adopted in Europe, we call, as we want, where Excel tables have agreed that we will now reduce the impact on nature. This green shell is now very positive in all offices, but not at manufacturers. I certainly see now that Spanish, German officials tell Latvians how they will reap a forest where they will get a peat... or they'll get... will or will not be allowed. We remember that, very recently, in view of 30 years of independence, there were two politicians who competed in rhetoric, where and when to show their taps and bulldozers. Now, perhaps it is time for these two politicians to think about whether one of them, as the Commissioner, needs to pull the tap and the bulldozer out of Europe and start thinking about how to turn his face against Latvia and figure out how we could do with local fuel resources, how to deviate from the European directives in favour of Latvia. I do not see such trends at the moment, because the closer we move, the closer we come the heating season, and this heating season will be very heavy. Both in the short term, which I said is that there is no technical equipment to prepare a slice, and in the long term, that there is no vision that we will do in three, five, seven years. Finland fought for a very long time and almost succeeded in defining peat as a long-term renewable resource in Europe. Latvia did not achieve this. I don't know if taps were too weak or bulldozers... but it didn't work, and at the moment we are in front of the choice for the next heating season. I call for this proposal to be adopted, but I am aware that this summer will be very difficult due to the coming heating season. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U248	The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U249	Hello, colleagues! I ask for the floor in this debate because, in recent years, even before the events that started in February, the issue of energy security in the Baltic States has been one of the hottest issues of the Baltic Assembly debate. I would like to express my thanks both to Rainis Znotiņš and Ralf Nemiro, who have participated sufficiently in this debate and are aware of the situation in the Baltic States as a whole when it comes not only to the natural gas market, but also to the energy sector as a whole. I see this proposal as a symbol of Baltic unity, because Lithuania, as we know, has actually abandoned Russian natural gas a number of years ago. And in this situation - after February - both the President of Lithuania and the Prime Minister of Lithuania declared loudly to the whole world that no cubic centimetre of Russian gas would flow in Lithuania. If we look at what Estonia has said, we can see that Prime Minister Kay Kallas of Estonia and also Minister of Economics of Estonia Tai Aus came forward in early April with a statement that Estonia will cease all supplies of natural gas from Russia by the end of 2022, because it is simply a historical flow that they cannot stop immediately. If you look at what statements you can find from Latvian nationals and state wives... I tried to find it. The only thing I found is Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš' statement that Latvia will not buy any cubic metres of natural gas. It is not about interrupting supplies; it is about not paying in rubies. I think it is too gentle in this situation. And that is why such a political proposal is already in the right place. If we look at the real economic figures and the real load that natural gas has on the Latvian economy, then, of course, we can see that this situation is rather complicated, because the volumes of supplies that we need per year are above 10 terawatt hours. And the question is, how can we ensure this? It is perhaps a purely pragmatic way for us to go on a similar road in Estonia - we must declare that we are stopping, but it is perhaps necessary to set some date by which we are stopping. That would probably be the case if this proposal were to be supported. So the question of the third reading - which is the real time limit by which Russian gas is no longer introduced into the Latvian natural gas system. On the other hand, if we look at public statements, we can see that Uldis Baris, Chairman of the Board of Conexus Baltic Grid, has already announced that since 1 April nothing from Russia has come into contact with us. The question is, will we be able to keep it out? The question arises because it has been a solution to the current situation and it has been taken by the joint stock company “Conexus Baltic Grid” instead of the government. And here is the big question: to what extent the government cooperates with these gas transmission companies. If we look at what our Estonian neighbours do... You all probably know that Estonia and Finland have developed a project, and this project is now at such a very high level of solution that from November this year practically, as they predict, Paldicski will start working on a floating oil terminal that will be able to provide them to a large extent... Let us say correct the deficit linked to the exit from the Russian natural gas market. But they are still going to keep this in Incukalns, through the Paldics pumped into natural gas. So they will use our common system of three countries. I would also like to say that in Estonia... their energy companies are very much involved in the implementation of this Paldic project, i.e. both Elering and Gasgrid Finland, both Estonian and Finnish. The question is: where are our energy companies, to what extent do they cooperate with the government to address these issues? In my opinion, the companies responsible for this must deal with these issues together with the government responsible for it - together. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U250	Thank you. I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U251	On behalf of the Commission, I would just like to remind you (especially the Members who have debated) that 11. - the proposal of Members Znotiņš and Cielen states that supplies of natural gas from the Russian Federation shall be prohibited. The proposal is supported by the Commission. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U252	Members have not expressed the opposite opinion in the debate either. Does anyone want a vote? Members are in favour. Dear colleagues, it's time for a break. Please register the Members. Name For Inese Voika to read the registration results.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U253	Colleagues! Not registered: Ainars Bauskis (Dep. A. Bauska: “Yes, yes, I am... “)... Ainars Bauskis is, Krista Baumane, Aldis Blumbergs, Uldis Budriķis, Boriss Cilevičs, Anda Čakša, Jānis Dombrava, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, Jānis Dūklavs, Krišjānis Feldmans, Jānis Krišāns, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Vladimirs Nikonovs, Vitalijs Orlovs... is, Evija Papule, Igors Pimenovs, Juris Pūce, Juris Rancāns, Ilga Šuplinska, Edmunds Teirumnieks, Zenta Tretjaka and Jānis Urbanovičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U254	Thank you. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U255	Dear colleagues, Let's keep working after the break. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Energy Act’. Member of the Commission responsible: Sandis Riekstins.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U256	Colleagues, continue with 12. - the proposal by Ilze Indricsones, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which provides for the addition of the fourth paragraph of Rule 107, with a new - 3. - a point. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U257	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U258	13. - Proposal by Ilze Indricksone, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics. This provides for the addition of a new paragraph 4.1 of Article 107. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U259	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U260	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Ilze Indricsone, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which provides for the exclusion of Article 112(19). The proposal has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U261	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U262	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the Member Nemir's proposal to clarify Article 112(19) of the law, as provided for in Article 1 of the draft law. The proposal has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U263	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U264	16. - the proposal by Mr Schmidt, which provides for clarification of Article 112(19) of the law, as provided for in Article 1 of the draft law. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U265	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U266	17. - the proposal of Member Možvillo, which provides for clarification of Article 112(19) of the law provided for in Article 1 of the draft law. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U267	Let's start a debate. The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U268	Colleagues! My proposal concerns the transfer of hydrogen and the inclusion of this gas in the common gas transmission network. The International Renewable Energy Agency has recognised that hydrogen allows to reach 1.5 degrees... a reduction in temperature to 2050. This is also associated with the green course. And I would ask my colleagues to think about it as well. And also for the future - that this gas transmission network can also be adapted to hydrogen transmission. This means that it would be necessary to look at the development of the hydrogen transmission network now, rather than waiting for the development of the hydrogen transmission network... will have to be changed again. I call on colleagues to support this proposal and to examine the issue of the development of the hydrogen transmission network in Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U269	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U270	On behalf of the Commission, I would just remind you that the proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U271	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 17. - Member Mozhville's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 3, for - 35, for - 7. There is no quorum at this time. Please call me! Please register the Members! Please get the result! Reportedly 55 members. We can go on.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U272	So we will vote on Amendment 17 again?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U273	Yeah, so let's vote again. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 17. - Member Mozhville's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 1, for - 40, for - 10. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U274	18. - Mr Nemir's proposal to add paragraph 20 to Rule 112. The proposal has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U275	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U276	I just want to say very briefly to the whole Latvian society: you have just seen the moment when SAVE was playing power - 10 Group Members abstained.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U277	Please speak on the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U278	I wouldn't have abstained, I wouldn't have had a quorum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U279	It is not worth closing the debate because there was no debate on the substance of the matter. This proposal is therefore not supported. Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U280	19. - the proposal by Members Znotiņš and Cielen to add a new paragraph to Article 112. The proposal has not been supported by the Commission. However, I am asking for a vote - as a Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U281	The vote is therefore being requested. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 19. - Mr Znotiņš and Mr Cielen's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 16, for - 29, for - 10, for - 29, for - 10. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U282	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Ilze Indricsone, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics, which provides for the addition of Article 117.1 of the draft law. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U283	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U284	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Možvillo's proposal to add a new point to the transitional provisions of the law. The proposal is supported by the Commission. But I am asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U285	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Karl Shadursky.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U286	Dear President, Dear colleagues, In the past, when examining this draft law, we supported proposal 5, which states that the system operator provides infrastructure for the construction of a nuclear power plant. I think this is right: it is supported by the proposal. But this proposal, 21, talks about the fact that the Cabinet of Ministers has to evaluate and submit to the Saeima a report on the efficiency of construction of a nuclear power plant in Latvia. So... I understand that this proposal by Mr Možvillo was well thought out and it is a half-saw in the direction we should go, but in the Commission we decided to take a full step. In particular, we imagine the situation that the operator is starting to implement the 5th proposal, but the Cabinet of Ministers evaluates something more and submits a report to the Saeima, and therefore... This report may be both for and against. And then there's a very funny situation we've got. That is why I would recommend taking a full step, and a half-sole - no. In particular, this proposal, 21, must be rejected, so that we do not have conflicting rules voted in second reading. Of course, the draft law also has a third reading; then it can be corrected, but why not do what can be done today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U287	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U288	On behalf of the Commission, I would just remind you that the Commission supported the proposal. But I am asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U289	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 21. - Member Mozhville's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 20, for - 41, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U290	Proposals 22 and 22 have been withdrawn. We have therefore examined all the proposals. I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U291	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law "Amendments to the Energy Act" at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 57, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U292	The deadline for submitting proposals is 12 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U293	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 12 May this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Disclosure”, second reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission – Member Inga Goldberga.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U294	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government has supported and directs viewing the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Disclosure of Information” (No. 1349/Lp13). The draft law is designed to transpose the directive's provisions on the re-use of public sector and publicly funded information. For the second reading, we have received one proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is of a editorial nature - it specifies the definition of the term ‘institution’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U295	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U296	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the second reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Disclosure of Information".
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U297	Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Disclosure of Information”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 62, against - non-, refraining - 1. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U298	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 3 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U299	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 3 May this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Fertilisers”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Janina Kursīte.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U300	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Fertilisers” for the first reading (No. 1356/Lp13). The draft law provides that a new regulation - Regulation 2019/1009 of the European Parliament and of the Council - will apply from 16 July 2022. Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Fertilisers are made in order to extend the requirements of the Regulation to the movement of fertilisers, to clarify terms and to exclude obsolete norms. It will be specified in which cases the registration certificate will be revoked and thus economic operators will not be able to make use of the unfair withdrawal of the registration certificate. By providing that the manufacturer must keep records of fertilisers or substrates produced in Latvia that are produced according to an individual order to final users, inspectors of the State Plant Protection Service will have a legal right to control this type of production. In view of the above, the transitional provisions will be supplemented by a provision requiring the producer and importer of fertilisers and substrates to submit information on fertilisers produced or imported for marketing in the previous year under the EC fertiliser mark by 31 January 2023. In line with the amendments to the law, it will be possible in future to market a wider range of EU CE marked fertilisers, allowing fertiliser producers to increase their production of fertilisers which they produce under the Regulation. Importers of fertilisers will no longer have to present fertiliser and substrate marking when imported into Latvia, but this will not change administrative costs. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U301	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Fertilisers! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one to - 67, against and refrain from - 67. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U302	May 5, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U303	5, huh?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U304	Yes, 5.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U305	Thank you. Deadline for the submission of proposals: 5 May this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Civil Protection and Disaster Management”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Ainars Latkovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U306	Colleagues, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption of these draft laws, in cooperation with the Ministry of Defence, have developed to eliminate problems identified in practice and differences in interpretation between civil protection entities. The current version between municipalities, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, as well as the Ministry of Defence, is understood in various ways, considering that the delegation provided for in the Law on Civil Protection and Disaster Management does not provide for sufficiently clear municipal responsibilities during the military invasion and war, but, according to today's geopolitical challenges, civil protection system readiness for war, military invasion is required... or in the event of a threat, with appropriate plans for preparedness for such situations. Thus there will be additional regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers No. 658 ‘Regulations on the structure of civil protection plans and the information to be included therein’, imposing an obligation to include in the civil protection plan of the municipal cooperation area a section on action in the event of war, military invasion or threat thereof, as well as setting out the information to be included in the plan. This will contribute to a common understanding of the competences and actions established at municipal level in the event of war, military invasion or threat thereof. I call for support to be given to the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U307	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on civil protection and disaster management! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 64, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U308	Time-limit for second reading - 5 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U309	Thank you. Deadline for the submission of proposals: 5 May this year. Examination of draft decisions Draft decision on the participation of the Latvian National Armed Forces in the United Nations International Operation ‘United Nations Trust Supervision Organisation’ (UNTSO). Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the participation of Latvian National Armed Forces soldiers in the United Nations International Operation “United Nations Trust Supervision Organisation” (UNTSO)”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 65, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Changes tabled to the agenda of the Bureau meeting Members Karina Sprūde, Aldis Gobzems, Jūlija Stepanenko, Maris Možvillo and Ēriks Pucens are asking to include the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Social Benefits” on the agenda of the sitting. ‘ Against” has applied to speak to Andris Skride.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U310	Dear Mrs. Mourniece. Colleagues! Yes, thank you to Mrs Sprūde, Mr Gobzem, Mrs Stepanenko, Mr Možville and Mr Pucena for their proposals. Last year, the demographic situation in our country was indeed critical: 17 115 newborns and 34 142 dead. In fact, half more because of the community, it is because of the disease that we have had this situation last year. I would like to thank the Ministry of Welfare, in particular, the head of the Centre for Demographic Affairs, Imants Debtor, who has worked hard on improving demographic affairs in the last two or three years, while I am chairing the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. I would remind you that, from this year's point of view, we have accepted a substantial increase in family state benefits, which is indeed a significant increase. We have just adopted this year the case that social tax is paid for "mother's wages". Currently, the birth grant is EUR 421. Some municipalities are paying a premium, then it could be some 500 euros. In a year, it costs around EUR 8 million in our national budget, such a proposal requires EUR 85 million in the budget. We must continue to talk about the birth grant, yes, it has not been changed for a long time. For these proposals... I'm calling... come from the government, in agreement with our government working group, also in agreement with the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. And I'll ask you personally, too, that we continue... on the part of the government, too, to work on these benefits and to increase them. But it is this version that I am calling for this to be rejected. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U311	Thank you. ‘ Karina Sprūde, Member, has applied to speak about”
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U312	Thank you, Mr Skride, for reminding us that we really have a very low birth rate. I think I could continue to talk, but you, as a coalition representative, should not only talk, but already make a decision and... must be some plan and offer today. When a baby is born, I'm sorry, EUR 421, well... Well, it's a humiliation! You can buy wheels from Poland for EUR 490... production, not to mention own. But continuing on statistics in 2020, 17 thousand children were born to us, 18 thousand in 2019, 19 thousand in 2018 and 20 thousand in 2017. It happens that, in principle, every year we are born with about a thousand fewer children. To make it easier for you to understand, I would also like to express this five thousand amount of benefit in other units of measurement: the necessary EUR 88 million is 0.8 per cent of the country's total budget - 0.8 per cent! This country, whose fundamental value seems to be a strong family and whose aim... At least there should be an improvement in the demographic situation. We could buy CO2 measuring devices that say we need to open a window (EUR 3.7 million), 740 children would already have a benefit, or 20 children... Could have put a reminder in the phone once an hour open the window, and peace. We were able to organise a hockey championship in the community conditions without much sense for our economy, businessmen, hotels and catering. Once again, there would have been a benefit for every 20 children. One of the SRS icebergs, which was then knocked out of the Daugava with great shame, was able to pay such a benefit to 29 children. We need to write off 600 icebergs together, and it's enough for all the kids. Almost 10 per cent of the funds needed are the annual budget of a mystical vaccination office. One child's allowance is the monthly salary of the head of the vaccination bureau. Does anyone understand what they're doing at all? I don't understand. One child has a vaccination office not only... We wrote off around (I'll tell you how much we wrote off the vaccine)... 5,3 million of the vaccine was bought, half of which were only vaccinated, with more than 20,000 being prescribed out of time. Almost half a million vaccines - 473 000 - were passed on to other countries because we had nowhere to lay. It cost two million 422 thousand to the public budget. More than 100,000 euros have been discarded and another 2.5 million euros have been sent to other countries. The money would be paid to 520 new-born children. A number of millions of doses of vaccines still remain, and the Foreign Ministry is currently looking for who could be presented, because time limits will come to an end and no one is buying them again. No request, but Latvia plans to apply for an additional 632 thousand doses, and all are happy. We were able to pay the Jewish community 42 million for the Nazi German offence, which is 48 percent of what children should have had. The improvement of Riga Castle Garden - 70 thousand is planned for this year. Next year - 50,000. The budget for the demographic action is set at 3.5 million. I call for them to be fully re-directed to child birth benefits. 3.5 million - it's 700 children. In December 2020 there were 27 thousand people in need and 40,000 people in need. In December 2021, 43.5 thousand poor people and 21.5 thousand disadvantaged people respectively. Why do we have a decrease in the birth rate in Latvia? Is that evidence of wealth? Parents should buy a bed, mattresses, couches, and children’s trolley for a child’s birth benefit. How much does the formula cost at all? Well, somebody has kids. ( Internouncing call.) EUR 37 is paid by Nancycare goat milk. I think our children are worthy of the best, best, best. I have to get the best. I am very sorry to listen to criticism from women. I could still understand that men, well, left...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U313	Thank you. So we have to vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U314	I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U315	One Member has spoken in favour, one Member has spoken against inclusion on the agenda of the Saeima sitting. Please call me! We will vote for inclusion of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Social Benefits” on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 24, against - 38, refraining from - 2. Draft legislation is not on the agenda of the sitting. Members Jūlija Stepanenko, Karina Sprūde, Aldis Gobzems, Maris Možvillo and Ramona Petravičs are asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Support Law” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. ‘ Jūlija Stepanenko, Member, has applied to speak about”
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U316	Dear colleagues, Currently, Ukrainian civilians can stay in Latvia with the right to work in two cases: if they receive a residence permit and if they receive a long-term visa, the conditions and activities of which were set out in this special law. In both cases, they are entitled to stay here for a year. Then let us now address this issue if there are circumstances, but what is now going on... What problems do Ukrainian civilians currently face? The difference between residence permits and visas is that when people receive visas with biometric passports, because with biometric passports they cannot obtain residence permits, there is no possibility to declare their place of residence in the Republic of Latvia. This is provided for by the law on the declaration of the place of residence, since the rules of that law include, of course, the obligation to declare their place of residence. It is an obligation not only for Latvian citizens, non-citizens, but also for those aliens who live in Latvia under the maintenance permit. Of course, nothing was provided for in this law, because such circumstances simply had not happened. As a result, the situation has arisen in this case, which allows Ukrainian civilians with residence permits to carry out this act of declaration, and thus also to receive various benefits (e.g. "Rīdznieku kartas" is free of charge), pensioners have the right to drive in public transport free of charge. Various other laws also operate on the basis of the right to declare, for example, in the Road Safety Directorate only a person who has declared in Latvia can change his driving licence. But for those who have biometric passports and who have received a visa (and I will say that such a person has a good majority), in this case, the imperfection of this law does not allow themselves to be guaranteed the right to a declaration. In parallel to the fact that we together with our colleagues offer this right to declare in Latvia also to ensure as an exceptional situation, comparing this possibility with the residence permit, we also foresee that the penalty for non-declaration... because we remember that those who hold a residence permit again... in turn, according to the Law on Declaration of Residence, they are obliged to declare in the Republic of Latvia. With regard to the Ukrainian civilian population, this Article 16 of the Residence Declaration Act, which provides for a penalty for non-declaration, is not, however, applicable, because, we know, various circumstances also relate to... is related to difficulties in obtaining the right to rent an apartment... and it is difficult to declare. But if we foresee that this right to declare will be secured by the law on the declaration of residence... and will be compared to those who hold a residence permit, so there will not be any problems in the sense of Ukrainian civilian right to declare, as also the right to declaration will end when the residence permit or visa activity is terminated. With all of this in mind... and I hope you also understood my explanation... I call on you to support this draft law and to address this small gap in our legislation so as to ensure that the Ukrainian civilians also enjoy equal rights with each other. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U317	Do Members object to the inclusion of a draft law on the agenda of the sitting? Are there any objections? ( Interface: Yes, let's vote!) ) Please call us! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Support of the Civil People of Ukraine” on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation is not on the agenda of the sitting. Dear colleagues, we have therefore dealt with all the items on the agenda of this parliamentary sitting. Please call me! Please register the Members. Name Andrejs Klementyevs to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U318	Good afternoon, honourable Members! Because we have the Baltic Assembly in parallel with Latgale Forum... Congress, I am sorry, very many Members are not sitting today. So didn't leave the registration: Krista Baumane... No, Raimond Bergmann... No, Aldis Blumbergs... No, Uldis Budrik... I don't see, Boriss Cilevičs, Jānis Dombrava, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, Jānis Dūklavs, Krišjānis Feldmans, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Jānis Krišāns, Atis Lejiņš, Inese Lībiņa–Egnere, Ralfs Nemiro... No, Vladimir Nikonov, Evija Papule, Igor Pimenov, Juris Pūce, Juris Rancāns, Ilga Šuplinska, Lubova Švecova, Edmunds Teirumnieks, Vita Anda Steel, Zenta Tretjaka, Jānis Urbanovičs, Inese Voika, Jānis Vucāns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-04-28-PT13-2379-U319	Thank you. Let us take stock of the agenda of the meeting on 7 April in Colonel 14.10, honourable colleagues. So in five minutes' time, we'll keep working, but this year... We will continue to work in five minutes. I closed the sitting of the Saeima on 28 April this year.
