ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room. We will begin the session of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 16 June 2022. Dear colleagues, we will see the President of Latvia. Thank you. On the agenda - speech by the President of Latvia Egil Levite. Mr. President, the name is for you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U2	Speaker of the Saeima! Honourable Members! Ladies and gentlemen! After 107 days voters will decide which parties will be entrusted with the administration of the State of Latvia in the next four years. In the context of the political decisions of the next Saeima there will be Russia's threat to the Western world, the abandonment of the democratic world from Russian energy sources, the related price rises and inflation, which will hurt the people of Latvia and our companies. This framework will be a decisive one, which will also set our priorities, and it will be a state's security and resilience. And that is why I will not talk today about education, science, culture, justice, health and many other very important areas, but will focus only on three areas that are most relevant to national security. These are national defence and internal security, which also include the challenges of public integration, the energy crisis and the related state aid policy for citizens, and the improvement of the system of national governance necessary for our country to better manage its resources and respond to crises. I call on each party to offer concrete solutions in its programmes for these three strands. And I call on the voters, when deciding which party to vote on 1 October, to assess whether the party really offers meaningful solutions to these areas. And when choosing the next Prime Minister, I will carefully assess whether the candidate offers concrete, reasonable policies that make Latvia safer and more resilient in crises. Firstly, national protection. Russia has never dared to attack a NATO Member State. However, as long as the imperialist Putin regime or one of his ideological heirs is ruling in Russia, the world, Europe and Latvia must take into account the increased level of threats. As a result of a consistent policy, our National Armed Forces have developed rapidly since 2014, both numerically and after the fighting forces. I would like to emphasise that the combat capacity of our armed forces is highly appreciated by NATO allies. We also have several thousand NATO ally soldiers from more than 10 countries at the moment. However, Russia's threat calls for further strengthening of our defence capabilities. That is why, first of all, we need to increase the number of the National Armed Forces and develop combat capacity. The Saeima has increased the defence budget for the next three years to 2.5 per cent of GDP. However, the next Saeima should once again see whether this is sufficient and whether this percentage should not be increased further. Secondly, a sufficient presence of NATO allies is important alongside our National Armed Forces. I would like to point out that the number of NATO allies in Latvia has increased significantly both within and outside the multinational battle group since the beginning of the Russian war in Ukraine - precisely in the last four months. In the new geopolitical situation, however, with all this increase that we have achieved in recent months, it is not yet enough in the long term. There is a need to strengthen both the command structure and to increase resources. NATO presence in Latvia and the entire Baltic region must be properly marked in the new NATO defence concept, which will be adopted in two weeks' time in Madrid. At the summit, Latvia, together with other countries of the eastern flank, will stand firmly for the presence of sufficient NATO forces in all countries of the eastern flank. However, national security is not just a responsibility of the armed forces. I have therefore repeatedly stressed that internal security should be given special attention in the future, as it has been neglected for a long time. The national border is not yet sufficiently reinforced. The departments of the Ministry of the Interior lack modern equipment and adequate infrastructure. Not least, professionally well-educated personnel. Internal security, therefore, in the coming years, your descendants here in the Saeima must also be a priority in the state budget, because the internal security services in the coming years must "take" to the level already achieved by our National Armed Forces. Ladies and gentlemen! It is the Belarusians and Poles who, after the Russian invasion in Ukraine, are most determined to support Ukraine. Our understanding of Russia's dangers, which the partners in Western Europe have ignored for many years, has had a significant impact on the common position of the European Union, both on the issue of sanctions and on our military support for Ukraine. This is also recognised by international observers. Latvia's foreign policy weight should be maintained in the next four years, as it serves our security. Latvia will stand for the UN Security Council in 2025. It is an opportunity to take responsibility for defending democratic values and international law. It is in our interest, like other UN Member States, to have rules and law-based international order. Working on the Security Council, Latvia's international weight and, I would say, therefore, security would grow. In order to be elected, Latvia must obtain 129 votes from 193 UN member states. And it won't be easy. That is why Members of the next Saeima, our foreign service, must make every effort so that we can take this important position. Latvia belongs to those countries that are actively in favour of the principles of international law and Russia's responsibility in international courts; we also support the establishment of a special international tribunal for the investigation of Russia's aggressive war against Ukraine. Long-term strengthening of Latvia's security is a priority task for the next government and Saeima, coalitions and opposition parties. It must be as persistent as the Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence of this government have done. Honourable Members! Latvia's energy adequacy is also a security issue. The government is currently working on the alert mode to replace Russian gas. That is right. But it is an unforgivable long time to delay the use of wind, solar, biomass and other alternative resources in national energy supplies. Nor has a far-reaching decision been made to build its own liquefied gas terminal, although there has been a debate on this. These previous decisions, or more precisely, the failure to take decisions, are now making our energy crisis even more serious. For example, it is not acceptable for wind farms investors to fall apart in bureaucratic mazes, to fight administrative obstacles, even to judge in order to produce the energy we need. Ladies and gentlemen! We are all aware that the next winter will be heavy. Global prices are rising, inflation is rising. And we know the reason: it is Russia's war against Ukraine. Uncertainty, insecurity, concerns about how each of us will be affected by the crisis are extremely high in society. But it is equally clear that the state of Latvia can and will be able to help its citizens. Therefore, a country that is solidarity with all of us, society as a whole, must have an obligation to support a particular household, which, without this support, would not be able to pay for it. And I stress - to support purposefully! The Prime Minister has insisted on the development of a targeted support system. The public administration must finally do what has not been done in thirty years. The current social aid system is costly and ineffective. This has also been recognised by international experts. It has not served to reduce inequality, which is one of the highest in Latvia in the European Union. A targeted social support system is needed during the energy crisis. At the same time, however, it is also an urgent structural reform to reduce inequalities in the long term. And such a system should be operational already this autumn. Honourable Members! The crisis must not distract our attention from the long-term objectives and other structural reforms that the country needs. And here we have to say that Latvia has been lagging behind Lithuania and Estonia for a long time. With years, this distance is increasing. The figures show this: after purchasing power parity, Lithuania ranks 15th in the European Union, Estonia - 17th in the 17th and Latvia - 23rd in the 5th of the 5th in the end. And here are exactly structural problems that don't exist for a long time... performed. I can refer to these problems that hinder Latvia's development and make us fall behind compared to the rest of the Baltic States: these are administrative obstacles to investment entry; insufficient funding for research and science that reduces the export force; an inefficient system of labour re-training and a lack of qualified labour; an undeveloped housing policy that does not promote labour mobility; insufficient access to credit; a tax system that does not contribute to economic development and many others. And you could probably add to this list. And in each of these areas there is a need for serious - and I stress! - structural reforms. Honourable Members! I would like to draw little attention now to the effectiveness of just one of these structural issues, namely public administration issues. Latvian public administration, which has been built by 19th century - colleagues, by 19th century! - the Ministry is not able to respond quickly and qualitatively to the needs of society. It is not suitable for the difficult world of the 21st century, which requires cross-sectoral and interinstitutional cooperation. For example, Andris Bite, the new president of the Employers' Confederation, admits that every ministry lives in its own world, but if cooperation between several ministries is required, then things are in the box. Even the Minister of Defence, who temporarily had to take responsibility for Ukrainian refugees, had to find that coordination between the various ministries was very, very difficult and almost impossible to do. One other example. Millions have been invested in the digitalisation of public administration. The information is stored in 180 different digital registers, but the shared automated use of the data does not take place. In order for two or more public authorities to exchange data or use each other's database, almost every time an amendment of the law is necessary. The data necessary for the social service of the municipality are still processed manually in most cases. And it is still necessary to agree with the Prime Minister's criticism of the collective failure of the state administration to use technology to perform its duties, so to collect and analyse data to provide the citizens with the services they need, but it must not continue. Therefore, the digital governance of the country for the next government, the next Saeima, must be transformed so that it serves society - that is, convenient, efficient and accessible to all. And this area must be supervised by a politically responsible official at the level of the Cabinet of Ministers. There must also be a political officer in charge of Latvia's green rate and related reforms in the economy, as these are all cross-institutional and cross-sectoral issues. Public administrations need to be flexible and respond to the challenges and solutions of each particular time. Even if it affects several sectors or institutions at the same time. If it concerns one sector, one institution, then everything is fine, but just a number of institutions, several sectors are involved, then we are beating, and this is a structural issue. That is why I will call on the next candidate for the Prime Minister to present a concrete, balanced, comprehensive and justified reform plan to address the persistent delay in public administration. And with the usual primitive, populist proposals, please don't come to me at all! (Applause) Honourable Members! Finally, some of the challenges of social integration. The decision to demolish the monument in Pārdaugava marks a symbolic turning point. It pulls a line on Russia's right to cultivate its imperialist ideological rituals here with us in our country. It is also the right decision to ban Russian TV propaganda channels, because anti-democratic propaganda does not fall within the scope of freedom of expression. However, historically, perhaps the most significant merit of this Saeima will be the decision to end artificial divisions, after a short transitional period - starting in 2025 - with a single school education in the state language. You will decide today on the relevant amendments to education legislation at first reading. And we have political forces that have always consistently stood up for this, just as there are other forces who have considered this step too early with various reservations or have not considered it necessary at all. The issue has been addressed in part by the 2004 reform by requiring that part of the training in Russian schools should take place in the national language. In 2011, an attempt was made to organise a referendum that already envisaged a complete transition to national language training, but the referendum initiative did not receive sufficient support at that time. And now this issue - after more than thirty years of renewed independence - will be closed. It should be noted that the possibility of learning the language and culture of their minorities as a separate subject remains in the future. I would like to raise again the issue of discrimination against Latvia on the labour market. This has also been the case here in the Saeima, too, with a heated debate. We have the language of our country, which must be sufficient in all living and working situations. Employers should understand that Latvia is a national country, a European country with a common state language, and it is only exceptionally possible to claim knowledge of a foreign language in such workplaces where this is objectively necessary, for example, if the basis is to work with foreign tourists or the respective foreign countries. It must be clearly regulated in the Labour Law, and it should be done by this Saeima, not leave this job to the next. It is possible that, generally speaking, the requirement for knowledge of foreign languages could only apply to English, which is today the main language of international communication, and we are communicating with our neighbours, for example, in the north and south, east and west. And the whole world. But it must also be carefully weighed. It simply - when will decide on this supplement to the Labour Law. I must stress that Latvian society is open to anyone who has wanted to integrate into our society on the basis of the values contained in the Constitution. These values are: Latvian as the only language of the country, Latvia as a Latvian, national and our membership of the Western democratic world. The choice to integrate on the basis of these values has been made by a large part of our minorities, including condemning Russia's aggression in Ukraine. And they are all Latvian patriots. They have no problems either with the common language of the country or with the Latvian nature of our country. At the same time, there are some people who speak Russian as their family language, but now they are going through their identity crisis. Their historical cultural source - Russia, therefore - has been ruined by moral authority. However, they still have some difficulty answering an elementary question: who or who is responsible for war and war crimes in Ukraine? ( We know that many Germans outside Germany suffered similar suffering when the Nazis came to power in 1933.) The perception that their country of origin has become criminal is not easy to tolerate. And perhaps speaking to them, we can help to sort out a little bit of their political and moral compass. Therefore, it is right that several decisions of the Saeima of recent times are aimed at addressing any praise of Russian imperialist ideology in the public space, addressing the state of Latvia and its citizens. Latvia as a democratic state does not impose its choice on anyone, but offers an opportunity to build its membership in a modern, democratic, human society. Therefore, it is pointless for Latvia to be accused that it has failed to integrate the persuasive foamists. It's a choice for these people. They want to enjoy the freedoms and opportunities of the European state, but to continue to live mentally in a world of imperialist Russian ideologies. They cannot be integrated unless they change their own absurd position. Honourable Members! The next four years of Saeima will be a part of the time in which, despite the circumstances, the aim of the state of Latvia, i.e. to guarantee the existence and development of the Latvian nation, its language and culture through centuries, to ensure the freedom of the people of Latvia and everyone and to promote prosperity, will be pursued in the best way. This is the great goal of the Latvian state, which is determined by the Satversme, and this objective remains unchanged and is always valid. Thank you for your attention. And happy Johns! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U3	Colleagues, let's get up when the President of Latvia leaves the hall. I thank President-in-Office Egil Levit for his speech. I thank Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš for his participation in today's Saeima sitting. ( Milestones.) Mr Kariņš, perhaps stay for a while more, Members are asking. ( Milestones.) Very good... Prime Minister has made us a little confused. Okay. Colleagues, let's continue. The agenda was the changes tabled to the Bureau's agenda. Members Viktors Valainis, Uldis Augulis, Gundars Dauge, Jānis Vucāns and Armands Krauze ask that the draft law “Amendments to the General Education Law” be placed on the agenda of the Saeima sitting (No. 1532/Lp13). ‘ For” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U4	Good morning, colleagues! Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. Dear colleagues, this draft law provides for several things on which all of you have been referred to by the trade union of Latvian Education and Science Workers. Colleagues, today will be a great opportunity for you all to get out of the e-Saima, get out of the virtual world and face with people – face to face with educators, address them and understand how your decisions affect processes and what people think about. Today, there will be a picket at the Saeima, and this picket, in my view, is only because the government has shown arrogance towards the educators - completely unnecessary at this time - which, in my view, is unacceptable. In this draft law, we have included obvious and quite simple things. First. We ask for teachers and all those working in the education system to be in good time! - to find out what pay they will pay on 1 September, what load will be. These basic questions, which are for every educator, so that they are known early on 1 September. Second point: We are asking and asking the government to ensure such an increase in the budget so as not to force the municipality to optimise the school network in such drastic proportions. In order for the government to also engage in the financing of teachers' salaries, this increase must be ensured. It cannot be just at the expense of the municipalities, as is currently being proposed. I think that's not right. More than that. The government's current position and offer put in an unpunished position a whole range of municipalities whose reforms have been carried out. The carrot method has been working like a whip at this point - quite the opposite. In my view, those municipalities that have worked must receive adequate remuneration, those that have done this difficult work - the optimisation of the school network - have gone through... this way, they must not be punished. That is what we fully support on the issues raised by education workers, and which will take place today. Colleagues! With regard to Riga and Pierīga. Here, too, we must understand this competition between ourselves, and we must not put Riga or Perry in different situations. There must be a common approach to which the teachers have pointed out to us, and I call on you to do so, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I call all of you today to go to talk to the educators, to meet, to answer them why this is not happening. Colleagues, these LiZDA requirements require a little more activity from us - a little more activity from us. Three and a half million from the state budget. Against this background, when educators, both during the Covid-19 pandemic and following this administrative territorial reform, and after internal reforms in every municipality, are sufficiently affected by the optimisation of the school network. I call on you to come in front of the teachers, not to put them in the role of a petitioner. This is the arrogance of the government, why today there will be 2 000 educators at the Saeima to show you this displeasure. I invite you to go and watch them in the eyes and tell them why you have led them so far that they will be at the Saeima today. I invite you to support this draft law, which includes all the requirements of the Latvian Education and Science Workers' Union.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U5	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? Please call me! Vote on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on General Education” (No. 1532/Lp13) inclusion on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 36, for - 44, for - 3. Draft legislation is not on the agenda of the sitting. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is asking for the draft law amending the Law on Budget and Financial Management to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission is asking to include in the agenda of the sitting the draft decision “On the approval of Jautrite Briede as a judge of the Constitutional Court” and to include it behind item 14 of the agenda. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Energy Efficiency” (No. 1511/Lp13) at first reading. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks that draft law “Amendments to the Energy Law” be included on the agenda of the sittings (No. 1503/Lp13) at first reading. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market” (No. 1504/Lp13) at first reading. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Krišjānis Feldmans, Sandis Riekstins, Uldis Budriķis, Jānis Cielēns, Reinis Znotiņš and others are asking to include on the agenda the draft decision “On the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Jānis Cielēns from the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Krišjānis Feldmans, Sandis Riekstins, Uldis Budriķis, Jānis Cielēns, Reinis Znotiņš and others are asking to include on the agenda the draft decision “On the appointment of the Saeima Member Jānis Cielēns at the Education, Culture and Science Commission”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission is asking to include in the agenda of the sitting the draft decision “On the dismissal of the judge Vita Lāčplēsis of Daugavpils court from the position of a judge” and to include him in the agenda section of the meeting “The election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officers, expression of trust or distrust”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission shall request that the draft decision “On the dismissal of Long Zaluzinsk of the Regional Court of Latgale from the position of a judge” be included on the agenda of the sitting and shall be included in the agenda section “Conclusion of election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal, trust or distrust”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission is asking to include in the agenda of the sitting the draft decision “On Extension of the Term of Submission of Proposals in the Draft Law “Amendment to the Law “On Time and Procedure of Entry into Force of the Renewed Civil Law of the Republic of Latvia of 1937, Rights of Heritage and Rights of Cases”” (No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks that the draft law on amendments to the Protection Zone Law be included on the agenda for the first reading. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Aviation” be included on the agenda for the first reading. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity is asking to include in the agenda the draft law “On the recognition of Diāna Mejas Mathuras as a citizen of Latvia”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission of Social and Labour Affairs asks for item 40 of the agenda – draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance” (No. 1403/Lp13) - to be removed from the agenda of the sitting until the subsequent committee decision. Are Members opposed to this? ( The box “Yes! ”) ; “Ir!” ) Members have reservations. Please call me! We will vote in favour of excluding paragraph 40 of the draft law on maternity and sickness insurance from the agenda of the sitting (No. 1403/Lp13) - pending the subsequent decision of the Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation shall not be excluded from the agenda of the sitting. And Social and Work... Colleagues! So this draft law is not excluded from the agenda of the sitting, but we have to decide on the draft law "Amendments to the law on maternity and sickness insurance" (No. 1535/Lp13) on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. Let us start by looking at the amended agenda of the sitting. Dear colleagues, Changes to the agenda were also submitted. Let us give Members time to get to know them, and then we can decide on it. On the agenda - reports from the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the member Alda Gobzema, Karina Sprūde, Māra Možvillo, Ramona Petraviča and Ērika Pucena refer the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Pensions” to the Social and Labour Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Aldis Gobzems.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U6	Hello! This question is about having children born in Latvia and encouraging women to give birth to children. This is a question of reducing the retirement age for women who have given birth to four children. In particular, they would have to reduce their retirement age by five years. I think that in our country, in which children are not born, in which children choose not to be born or, more precisely, in which children are born in at least the last 100 years, we must do everything to motivate people to take the decision to send a baby into the world. This is just one of many instruments, and I think that in the next parliament, where other political forces will be present, different from those currently in power, such privileges will be granted to families with children. One such privilege will be to reduce the retirement age. I am also convinced that the direction in which I will have to work and to which I personally believe - that the families where the fourth child is taken up or adopted - the state pays all the mortgage credit and exempts them from payment of the credit. The families who lay a child in the world must be given the EUR 5000 aid that I have already mentioned for every child born. And all children have to give their holidays. Everyone, from first to last class. And every child... in terms of child benefit... must be rewarded at the same level; it cannot be that one child - more, another child - is less, because all children are equally valuable. Here, only these proposals will change the country; no other proposal will be able to do so. We can build concrete buildings, we can build unknown prisons... We can encourage all possible flags, like some of them... He's been put here on the tables, but nothing will change by waving these flags. Everything will only change if we support children and if we support children's mothers first. I therefore call for this proposal to be supported. I call on you to know that this Saeima will not do this; this will be done by the next Saeima, where the majority will be very different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U7	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Internouncing call.) Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On State Pensions” to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 39, it's against - 49, it's not. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Bureau of the Saeima proposes the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits” presented by Member Alda Gobzem, Karina Sprūde, Ramona Petravičas, Māra Možvillo and Erika Pucena (No. 1524/Lp13) to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, establishing that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Aldis Gobzems.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U8	The nature of this proposal is very simple: for every child - EUR 100 per month. And that's the only way... and I can repeat, especially for a party that has priority over gambling and iris flags, I can repeat that the country will flourish not where there are gambling and iris flags, but where there are children. And where the children are supported. Dear people! Loved families - Latvian families! If you vote in favour of Gobzem, you will have EUR 100 for every child; you will have EUR 5000 for every child given birth. And...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U9	Colleagues, I do not, however, ask for the pre-election campaign from the parliamentary tribunal to take place. Talk about the bill. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U10	... and that's just the beginning. The country that will support the children will flourish, there is no other way. And we will not need any demographic centres, we will not need any integration centres, no NEPPs, no SEPLP and no major repairs of the financial system. We will simply support children, families with children, and that will be what will change the country. It has happened everywhere in the world, at all stages of history, the countries where children are supported flourish. And Latvia will not be an exception. If Gobzem has power, the children will be supported. And...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U11	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U12	... This is the only way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U13	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits” to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 37, against - 49, abstaining. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the member Alda Gobzema, Karina Sprūde, Ramona Petraviča, Māra Možvillo and Ērika Pucens be referred to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Aldis Gobzems.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U14	Before I start to talk, there are already colleagues who try again, once again, to panic over this proposal or on other proposals aimed at bringing children to Latvia. This proposal is as follows: EUR 5000 for every child born. And that's nothing you should be looking at.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U15	Mr. Gobzem, no one laughed here.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U16	You may not have seen it, but I saw it very well, Mrs. Mourniece. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U17	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? Please call me! Vote on the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Social Benefits” (No. 1525/Lp13) transfer to the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 39, it's against - 49, it's not. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the Member Karina Sprūde, Alda Gobzem, Māra Možvillo, Ramona Petraviča and Ērika Pucens refer the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Real Estate Tax” to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible. ‘ Karina Sprūde, Member, has applied to speak about”
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U18	Dear colleagues, Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Of course, I would like to start with a reminder of how difficult people are and how afraid they are to expect the autumn that their savings have come to an end, but I will talk a little about the figures about the concessions that are granted and the sums that are available to the equalisation fund. For example, in Riga, the application of real estate tax rates is a criterion for declaration: if there is no one declared in the property, the rate is 1.5 per cent. Where at least one is declared, a reduced rate of 0,2, 0,4 or 0,6 shall apply. You can get relief from 25 percent to 90 percent in Jurmala. In Jurmala, many children's families, politically oppressed, families with disabled persons of Group I or II, as well as other groups of residents may receive relief for the property of the building, provided that Jurmala is the owner's declared place of residence for a period of not less than two years. In turn, 90 per cent of the land relief is received by real estate tax payers, natural persons who have declared their place of residence in Jurmala. On Marupe County. There are various reliefs for disabled people, pensioners, politically oppressed persons and other population groups, as well as a 50 percent discount on real estate tax payments... for a person, the place where he or she declared his or her place of residence. This year, the Rozai region provides for a discount for real estate tax for 27 groups of residents - for example, the low-income, politically oppressed, members of the barricades of 1991, participants of the emergency response of Chernobyl AES, persons with disabilities, pensioners, residents of the area of Getliņa. Immovable property tax discounts also vary from 25 to 90 per cent in this region. Adaži Regional Council grants a 50 per cent discount on real estate tax on housing where the owner is declared. In Ķekava, the real estate tax relief for land and buildings is 70 per cent, for example for multi-child families, while for single pensioners whose pension does not exceed the minimum monthly salary, the real estate tax relief for buildings and land is 90 per cent. Also, pensioners from 70 years of age are eligible for 50 per cent housing tax. Rich municipalities can already afford to reduce real estate tax, apply many different discounts, as a result of which municipalities pay the most to the Equalisation Fund. According to the preliminary figures for 2022, Riga Municipality's Financial Equalisation Fund provides almost 96 million euros, Jurmala - more than 11 million euros, Mārupes novads - more than nine million euros, Ropažu novads - almost six million euros, Ādažu novads - almost five million euros, Ķekava novads - almost four million euros, Saulkrasti novads - almost one million euros, Salaspils novads - 77 thousand euros. Daugavpils – 23.5 million euro, Liepaja – 13 million euro, Jēkabpils and Rēzekne novads – 10 million euro each, Augšdaugava and Talsu novads – almost nine million euro each, Kraslava, Southern Kurzeme and Tukums novads – eight million euro each, Madona, Ludza, Cesis and Bauska municipality – seven million euro each. I already understand that no one is interested, not even the Prime Minister is interested in how our people live... We don't have to abolish property tax... that people live in hunger, that people live in cold. The entire Energy Act that you are heading is based only on benefits. Forget that people also have firewood that they need pellets. Well, it's okay! We'll live! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U19	Mr. Aldis Gobzems has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U20	I call on all those who are against Latvian society to vote against and all those who always turn off the microphone when speaking to provide support to Latvian society. From this platform, I would like to announce that today I will appeal to the Commission for Mandate, Ethics and Application against Ināra Mūrniekis, who uses his service position...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U21	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this isn't...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U22	... which uses its own service position...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U23	This is a debate on the specific draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U24	... and regularly turn off the microphone without allowing the mind to be expressed.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U25	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Internouncing call.) Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Real Estate Tax”” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 36, against - 47, refraining from - 1. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the Member Viktoras Valaiņa, Ulda Augulis, Gundars Dauges, Armands Krauze and Janina Yalinska's draft law "Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax" be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U26	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Dear Saeima! Dear colleagues, This proposal is a response to the proposal made by Minister Daniel Pavļuta and the Ministry of Health to reduce the prices of medicines in our pharmacy. There are several things in this offer. One thing is the reduction in value added tax. Colleagues, I call on you to decide today that this issue of the reduction in value added tax should not be shifted to the next Saeima or to another Saeima, but that it should be turned into a bill today and that the Saeima should start discussions already. Highly Respected Development/About! This bill is your minister's offer to reduce the price of medicines. I call on you in particular to vote, but overall, if we look at this offer, the purpose and nature of this offer is to reduce the increase in inflation with tax instruments. It is completely different from what the government now proposes, which is currently proposed by Prime Minister Kariņš, with his welfare minister, working actively on the goals - targets! - the types of aid. Colleagues, with targeted forms of support, if we continue to do so, we will not have the second highest inflation in the European Union, but I think we will also have the status of first place to which we are now very active - if we do not do anything... fiscal instruments, including the reduction of value added tax on medicines and other forms. Colleagues, let's see how we do this... how to reduce inflation in other countries, such as Poland itself. There is much talk about Poland, but Poland has a number of taxes... excises... VAT reduced. If we are talking about Lithuania or Estonia, the immediate neighbours, then both these support measures and tax cuts have already been adopted in Lithuania, for example, in order to reduce inflation. Colleagues, I would also like to name you other countries, such as France, Italy, Germany - all these countries choose to try instead of some targeted instruments... If you're busy... You can do this with targeted instruments, but we also need to reduce the rise in inflation. And that is a significant difference from what the government is now proposing and from what we, the Union of Greens/Farmers, are proposing on the part of the opposition. We also offer to think about tax instruments now. France, Italy, Germany have adopted a number of aid measures, both for excise duty and for value added tax... reductions, including these targeted instruments that you have called for. They are not just talking about them, they have already introduced them - they have introduced them! They have aid payments for both fuel--all... and that is the total stupidity that we are trying to say here that such solutions will help the rich more. On the contrary, such solutions will directly help those with the lowest income who are currently suffering the most from this price increase. The drug... Yeah, seniors of the drug... It is precisely those with the lowest income who suffer the most at present. Colleagues, I call on you to finally cut it and support it, and to start discussions on tax cuts. ( Milestones.) We can't - we can't! - allow us to have the second largest inflation. Colleagues, all these targeted support that has been in place so far - what have they shown? Covid-19 Support - What is the dry balance? Inequality only increased. You gave more to those who had already, and less to those who needed it in essence. A number of studies show this. With regard to these targeted proposals, you are still talking. I call on you to finally accept something to come into force. I call on you to be more active. Support this already announced by the Minister for Health. Otherwise, I regard it as a populism of pre-election and not more. We will not see here anything that the pump announces to Development/About! Minister. Then take and support, this is your offer! One against one thing your minister says. Here, you have the opportunity to vote. And in general - the government, do something to reduce inflation! None of the offers that are on the table today reduce inflation. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U27	Thank you. Your speaking time is over. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax" to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Excise Tax’ presented by Alda Gobzem, Julia Stepanenko, Karina Sprūde, Kaspars Girgens and Ieva Krapāne be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Aldis Gobzems.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U28	We offer fuel with a 25-pass discount per litre in circumstances where fuel prices exceed already two euros. It is not essential, it is necessary to support people. This is much more important than the Civil Union law. It is much more important than monuments, piers, or iris or Ukrainian flags, because it is targeted support for the people of Latvia. For four years this Parliament has not taken care of Latvian society. And today this Parliament will not take care of Latvian society. These proposals, which are rejected one by one, are a good example and a reminder to the Latvian public that in the autumn, before making a choice which should be voted on, the television channels should be turned off and closed... “Panoram”... “ Delfus” and all the rest, open your refrigerator and see if there’s more than just a cold in it. Of course, if there is electricity for which the price will be paid, because one large part of petrol can no longer afford to pay today. Such support is normal in other countries - in countries that take care of people, in countries where there are not corrupt and cartel politicians who occasionally portray patriotism in the name of the state, but people who take care of their people. Care for their people is not the worship of stones or various other idolatry, but the clear and direct support of people - all, different groups - children, adults, those who go to work... All of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U29	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission to the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 38, against - 50, abstaining. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Law” presented by the Member Jānis Dombrava, Janīna Kursīte-Pakules, Jānis Iesalnieks, Rittvars Jansons and Edvins Šnore be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, as well as to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? ( Internouncing call.) Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Law” to the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, as well as to the Legal Commission, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 50, for - 10, for - 1. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on Budgetary and Financial Management’ presented by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On the recognition of Diāna Mejas Mathuras as a citizen of Latvia” submitted by the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Public Alignity be referred to the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Public Reassociation, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance” presented by the Social and Labour Commission be referred to the Social and Labour Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Next, reports by the Bureau on own-initiative proposals submitted. Members Aldis Gobzems, Karina Sprūde, Maris Možvillo, Ramona Petraviča, Eriks Pucens, Ralfs Nemiro, Maris Kučinskis, Kaspars Ģirgens, Edgars Tavars and Viktors Valainis have submitted their own proposal – the draft decision on state-paid meals for learners. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) There are objections. We must therefore decide on the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of the next sitting. Mr. Gobzem will talk about it? ‘ For” applied to speak Member Aldis Gobzems.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U30	Finland once flourished - when a similar regulation was adopted - when all children were granted a holiday. Breakfast and lunch at school in all classes, kindergartens... to the last class at the expense of the State. We're all at our expense. And that is important from several points of view. First. In fact, the smallest and least important aspect is the social function, which feeds less well-off children. Most important, though, is that such a system enables a person to grow under much healthier conditions. Good food is good health. Good food - it is a proper and developed brain activity, which children in particular need in the education process. Good food, Mr Shadursky, is crucial in the education process, and you should know that, as a former minister of education, and not laugh at your place in my direction.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U31	I'm sorry, Mr. Gobzem, I can't see anybody laughing at you. ( The box “I See! ”) ; intermediates.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U32	But everyone heard that, Mrs. Mourniece! Everyone except you heard what Shadurski said from the place.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U33	I don't see anyone here about you in this room laughing. Please continue the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U34	You all heard... You all heard me, didn't you? You heard that Shadurski was raging about this issue from his place. ( The box “No! ”) “Yes!” We didn’t hear it!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U35	Ladies and gentlemen, however, I call for mutual insults or misunderstanding to be made clear to the Committee on Mandate, Ethics and Application, not to be dealt with here in the sitting of the Saeima. Here we are deciding on the progress of the draft decision. Please continue.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U36	Yeah. And I'm sure... It is clear that this Saeima will not take a decision on children's weekends, but I am convinced that this decision, together with the EUR 5000 that I have previously mentioned for each child, is crucial for changes in the country. It is much more important than pension indexation, much more important than any other decision. A country in which not gay marriage will be a priority, but a child - that country is with the future. I am not saying this because I would be terrifying about how gays live - either together or separately - but I see examples of history, many examples of history, that the direction in which every particular new person is invested is invested in every way, starting with eating, has brought results in those countries. In fact, I believe that children's lunch should not be what it is like in many schools where children are fed as animals, I am sorry, but it is true... children must receive a lunch that is more subtle than in a restaurant, at the highest level. It teaches them other values, different lifestyles, different visions. And in the end, it's just healthy. Children should be given the best food: fish, fruit, vegetables. And public money. That is right. And those people who can yell about it, I don't understand them... who can object to it. I don't understand them, honor, I don't understand. I don't understand either as a father or as a politician. I therefore call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U37	“Pret” has applied to speak to Member Eriks Pucens.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U38	Hello, dear colleagues! Of course, I call for a young Unity to vote against. And Mr Shadursky had the greatest objections. If you have an opinion, come here at the platform, and tell us why children should not get a holiday in local governments... not to sit and murmur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U39	Colleagues, don't talk to the hall. Please debate the specific draft decision, state the reasons for it: ‘for’ or ‘to’. So one Member said 'for', one spoke 'for'. Let's vote. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft decision on state-paid catering for learners on the agenda of the Saeima's next sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft decision is not on the agenda of the next sitting of the Saeima. Are there any proposals for referrals to one of the commissions? Turn on the microphone for Member Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U40	Referral to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U41	So there is a proposal to hand over the budget and financial (tax) commission. Please call me! We will vote for handing over to the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission the draft decision on state-paid catering for learners! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 38, against - 48, abstaining. The draft decision shall not be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission and shall be rejected. Members Kaspars Ģirgens, Ieva Krapāne, Ralfs Nemiro, Maris Možvillo, Aldis Gobzems, Karina Sprūde, Jūlija Stepanenko, Lubova Švecova, Edgars Tavars and Viktors Valainis have submitted their own proposal – draft decision “On task for the Cabinet of Ministers in an urgent manner until 15 July 2022 to develop a state aid plan for overcoming the energy and food crisis”. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Members have reservations, so we must decide to put this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of the next sitting. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Kaspars Ģirgens.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U42	On 27 April, Mr Kariņš was asked two questions. The first question was when a plan will be drawn up to overcome the energy crisis. The answer was that, at present, the electoral process hinders its development. Then he was asked the second question right away: "Really - do you have a specific date when this plan will be drawn up?" The answer was short and concrete. Almost two months have passed, and we see that there is still no plan. Every one of us... perhaps also coalition Members... we only get some additional information from the Internet that the Ministry of Welfare seems to have developed an idea of how to deal with this crisis. Then there is information that we should perhaps still focus more on benefits than on helping everyone. So every day, we get information on how we can work, while other countries have long adopted these support measures, even Lithuania, for example. We're still... I will perhaps say more specifically: not we, but the expensive coalition is still looking for ways to move and solve this problem that has developed. If, at the moment, we have a head on eight percent of inflation in America, then we are all right - noting special at 16 percent of inflation. Do we really have to wait for the elections to come - perhaps August - to start promising what benefits? Let us think logically. The same as the President of Latvia said. He expects the new government, the new Members, to see how to overcome this crisis. When will these new Members come? November? When a government is formed from these fragmented parties, which will be at least seven... Six... eight. It's gonna be December, January. The crisis will already be at its own heights. Right now... We already had to have support mechanisms today, because we see that food does not become cheaper. It becomes more expensive every day. Fuel becomes more expensive, energy resources become more expensive. Go to the store and you will see how the - most - briquettes, including granules, are caught. At the moment, the country deserves it, because there are no aid measures and, as I can see, there will be no aid in the future. Therefore, our proposal is to instruct the Cabinet of Ministers to develop this support mechanism plan by 15 July. I can't see another chance. How long can you wait? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U43	Thank you. Dear colleagues, We will have to decide on the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of the next sitting. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft decision “On task for the Cabinet of Ministers in an urgent procedure until 15 July 2022 to draw up a state aid plan for overcoming the energy and food crisis” on the agenda of the next meeting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 38, against - 48, abstaining. Consequently, the draft decision is not on the agenda for the next sitting. Are there any proposals for referrals to one of the commissions? Please, a microphone member, Ģürgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U44	Referral to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U45	So there is a proposal to refer the draft decision to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Please call me! We will vote for handing over the draft decision “On task for the Cabinet of Ministers in an urgent manner until 15 July 2022 to develop a state aid plan for overcoming the energy and food crisis” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 37, against - 49, abstaining. Consequently, the draft decision has not been referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission and has been rejected. Statement by the Bureau on the granting of leave From 8 June to 9 June, Mr Ivan Ribakov shall be entitled to unpaid leave. Dear colleagues, the Bureau of the Saeima has received an application from Mr Ivan Ribakov, Member of the Parliament, requesting that unpaid leave be granted from 8 June to 9 June. The Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. On closing and opening the session of the Saeima. Draft decision on the closure of the Saeima's 2022 spring session and the opening of the 2022 autumn session. Dear colleagues, the draft decision is intended to close the spring session of the Saeima on 17 June this year and to open the autumn session on 5 September this year. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the closure of the Saeima's 2022 spring session and the opening of the 2022 autumn session! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 85, it's two, it's not. The decision has been taken. So on the agenda... We'll get it all the time. On the re-reading of the law. The Law on Electronic Communications. Dear colleagues, Thus, on 9 June this year, the President of Latvia sent the Saeima for re-reading the Law on Electronic Communications adopted by the Saeima on 2 June this year. Responsible for this law is the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. According to the order of the Saeima, the Saeima must set a time limit for the submission of proposals, as well as the date when the law is re-examined at the sitting of the Saeima. Please... You can also talk from where you are. Please turn on the microphone for Krišjānis Feldman. Only the deadline for submitting proposals... and also a re-examination of the date.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U46	Thank you. The Commission has decided to propose 1 July as a deadline for the submission of proposals at the next extraordinary meeting thereafter.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U47	Let's say, at the next Saeima sitting after July 1. Are there any other proposals? There are no other proposals, so the deadline for the submission of proposals - 1 July this year - for the next sitting of the Saeima after 1 July this year. Colleagues, amendments have been tabled to the agenda of the sitting. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has requested that changes be made to the agenda of the sitting and that it be included in the draft law on amending the Law on Budget and Financial Management at first reading. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Also, the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Public Solidarity asks that the draft law “On the recognition of Diāna Mejas Mathuras as a citizen of Latvia” be placed on the agenda of the Saeima sitting for the first reading. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Committee on Social and Labour Affairs is asking to include in the agenda of the sitting the draft law drafted by the Commission “Amendments to the Law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance” at first reading. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. Dear colleagues, Members Latkovskis, Pūce, Feldmans, Dombrava and Asheraden ask for an amendment to the Saeima sitting and to exclude from it the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Pensions” (No. 1492/Lp13). Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ ) Mr. Valaiņš will speak 'no' if? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Valainis: “ Against”! ) Mr Viktors Valainis has applied to speak against.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U48	Dear colleagues, We have been in the opposition - and in this respect the opposition is quite united - for some time now insisted on a faster indexation of pensions. We have put forward various proposals, both in the form of a bill and in the form of legislative proposals, both for a one-off allowance, which must be adopted as soon as possible, and for a faster indexation of pensions than the government had determined. At present, the opposition, together with one of the coalition parties, has achieved a faster indexation of pensions than the government has intended. Dear colleagues, our seniors are waiting for this decision today, and today is the summer... Today is the last session of this session. For what moment then do you intend to postpone the adoption of this question? The family must make decisions now and immediately, not sometime in a month or autumn. Elders need to know what their income will be. This is a very good thing for you at the moment against the elders who are waiting for this decision. Those other decisions that we will discuss from this troupe, and which are submitted to the opposition, too. But mainly on indexation, which should take place not on 1 September, but on 1 August. This was where the opposition thought to be one of the coalition parties. Therefore, in honor of “Development/About!” , do not submit to this proposal and, together with the opposition, do one good job to make it clear to the seniors of John that their pension indexation will be from 1 August. I call for the initiative put forward by these Members to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U49	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote to exclude the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Pensions” from the agenda of the Saeima sitting (No. 1492/Lp13)! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 45, it's against - 38, it's not. Decision adopted. The draft law is excluded from the agenda of the sitting. Dear colleagues, It's time for a break. Please call me! Please register the presence of Members! Dear colleagues, no matter how vehement the Saeima has been, we have always honored our Johns and Leagues before the elections. Dear colleagues, Please come out here, Saeima sitting room, our John. Jānis Butan (Applause) , Jānis Cielēns, Jānis Dombrava, Jānis Dūklavs, Jānis Iesalnieks, Jānis Krišāns... John Krishan, come here! Jānis Tutins, Jānis Urbanovičs, Jānis Vitenbergs, Jānis Vucāns... Wasn't Wuzcana? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Beitnere-Le Galla: ‘Is Vucanas’. ) Wucan is, is. Very good. Dear colleagues, (Intellectual) , pag, pag... What I want to say to you today. In the evening of the grass day, Percon John roared hard: To whom it came into the nations an unspoiled hat. Here, too, the protocol would have something to say, and perhaps Ieva Acuratere. ( Milestones.) She's in, come on! ( Milestones.) We're all gonna have to sing to Eve Aquater. ( The Members sing a song.) Thank you. (Applause) And what beautiful song will the Johns sing to us? ( Milestones.) Okay. Name For Inese Voika to read the registration results. ( Insight: “Are all Johns here? ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U50	Colleagues, all Jāņi have registered, but have not registered: Aldis Blumbergs, Mārtiņš Bondars, Raivis Dzintars, Rihards Kols, Māris Kučinskis, Viesturs Liepkalns, Ralfs Nemiro, Edmunds Teirumnieks, Atis Zakaitistovs and Gatis Zamurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U51	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U52	Dear colleagues, I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber. We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Decision on the appointment of Ilze Znotiņa as Head of the Financial Intelligence Service. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U53	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Sitting viewers and listeners! The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption has examined the draft decision on the appointment of Ilze Znotiņa as Head of the Financial Intelligence Service. As expressed by the Commission, the selection of the Chief of Service took place in accordance with the Cabinet of Ministers’ regulations “Regulations on the Selection of Candidates for the Head of the Financial Intelligence Service”. According to a special law, a competition was carried out for the selection of candidates for the position of head of the Financial Intelligence Service, whose commission was... led by Director of the State Chancellery Jānis Citskovskis, also consisted of Prosecutor General Juris Stukāns, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior Dimitrijs Trofimovs, Minister of Finance Jānis Reirs, Director of the Constitutional Protection Bureau Egils Swedishis and Head of State Security Service Normunds Mežvietis. The evaluation also included representatives delegated by the Council for the Development of the Financial Sector: Santa Purgaile, Chairman of the Financial and Capital Market Commission, Jānis Brazovskis, member of the Board of the Latvian Financial Industry Association, and Vitalijs Gavrilovs, President of the Latvian Employers' Confederation. A total of eight applications were received for the position of Head of Financial Intelligence. As a result of the competition, Ilze Znotiņš, the current president of the Financial Intelligence Service, was recognised by the commission as the most appropriate candidate. The Commission listened to the applicants, asked questions, received replies and, by vote (in favour of -8, refraining -1, no -no) supported the appointment of Ilze Znotiņa as Head of the Financial Intelligence Service. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U54	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U55	I will tell you a story, in reality two real stories, where the capital repairs of the financial system and the pointless supervision of this whole financial system have led to. The story is number one. It's a real story, it's happening in Latvia. On the Internet, the mother of children on the world’s largest shopping platform (with profits of more than 400 billion, if not misguided, Amazon) wants to buy children’s teaching tools and a swimming pool with a unicorned image for a minor child. The Latvian bank “Swedbank” – i.e. the Latvian bank “Swedbank” – refuses this transaction because it is a suspicious transaction that is very likely related to terrorism and threats to the state. I would like to say that the value of this transaction was about EUR 30. It's a story number one. The story is numbered two. About a month ago, I was sitting and drinking coffee with a big taxpayer, a citizen of the Republic of Latvia, the owner of the company, who is taking up in the Latvian market in the relevant sector... I would not say that it is essential, I would say that the second biggest, as I say, percentage of the whole market. He says to me: “I made a company in Finland for a very simple reason. Because I can make bank transfers in Finland." The story is numbered three. Long ago I met a member of the board of a company resident in Latvia. Most of the production of this company was traded and traded to the former Soviet Union countries. This businessman represents the company, which also served the bank resident in Latvia - SEB Bank (I can name). And he's got his account closed. He's got a message coming... not for him personally, but for the company to close the account (a large company known in Latvia), saying: “No, we already have no claims against you. We already have no claims against you. We simply cost you very much to monitor, because we need to monitor each transaction. We could give the credit, but you better open the account somewhere else." They opened an account in Estonia. These are numerous examples. Yes, the fourth example. My spouse studied in addition to chemistry, and one of the best chemical teachers carried out a transfer of €15 and entered the word “Cuba libre” in the details of the transaction. Her account was temporarily blocked for a month as a suspicious issue of terrorism because the word “Cuba” was mentioned, although the purpose was completely different, why “Cuba libre” was entered. I think many people understand why it was recorded there... at this payment target. This is what our banking system is doing today, and it is also largely the responsibility of those who monitor, including Mrs Znotiņa. Our financial system has been destroyed. If you can, combine the times...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U56	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U57	Our financial system has been destroyed, and it has been destroyed by the capital repairs of the financial system, just as many years ago the Unity with structural reforms in fact made the Republic of Latvia uncompetitive. And that is how we are getting poorer and poorer as years go. As a result of the repair of the financial system's capital, most of the money in the financial system was transferred not to Russia, not to China, but to any third country, but to the Member States of the European Union. That money simply passed into the other economies of the European Union. We destroyed a commercial bank in Latvia, and the employees of this bank work strictly right here in Europe - Luxembourg, Liechtenstein - and receive a lot of salaries and spend money there. We have destroyed virtually everything that can be destroyed in Latvia. And then we are surprised that our economy is lagging behind our closest neighbours - Lithuania and Estonia. By the way, speaking about Lithuania, it is easier to open accounts in Lithuania than in Latvia, because opening bank accounts in Latvia is an impossible mission. Then there is the service that the nation is talking about in a very simple matter, that you have to pay anyway and so that you get back anyway and so on. In fact, this service is referred to as a racket for legal entrepreneurs, a legal racket, a reiderism. The businessman shall be deprived of the money and may be reinstated for a certain amount of consideration when he goes to certain lawyers. That is the reality of life. It is allowed by law enforcement authorities, and it is known by all the knowledgeable, fine Riga society. That is what happens in real life. I will vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U58	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U59	I guess I'll ask you to unite the times.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U60	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U61	Dear colleagues, Ladies and gentlemen! Unfair businessmen, people, and so on... Legal and private persons, of course, must be punished, caught, illegal cash flows through Latvia must be stopped. Clearly, we had arrived in one ditch, relying on, as we say, the inviolable... how to paint the reputation of a good bank manager and so on. It's not... That was the time to act. The question is, how do we act, whether we go after those who commit such frauds? That's one method. And the other method is to decide that everyone is cheating. Like Pinochet. Collect everyone in the stadium and then decide which of those who have been healed is perhaps not such a big fool and is licked out. If ever a bank account... Everyone remembers the times when we had bank accounts, and if the bank service started to become uninteresting, we told the intermediaries in the bank that we would immediately replace the bank. Now people are happy that they have one account and are ready to pay any payments for the elementary transfer so that it will continue to exist. When it all got such a special tow, I'm out of the fisher... According to the Saeima, one businessman who, by the way, was mentioned today in a speech by President Levite and is the head of the Employers' Confederation of Latvia... Andris Bite said: “Listen, the level reached is that I’m required to justify transactions with Aldi and Lidl networks. I produce products, and I have to put five people down every day, who justify why I sell my products “Aldi” and “Lidl”.” But three days later he said, “I don’t worry about it anymore, because now I’m starting to ask for justification for transactions with the Treasury.” So the State Treasury of Latvia is suspected and suspicious transactions are tax payments between the company and the State Treasury. For today's vote and what... and how to vote. There is, of course, a hot debate, various arguments, here in the backstages. One of the arguments I have heard is: well, now you don't have to blame one person, one institution. I completely agree, it is certainly not a matter for one institution; it is some global action, an amount that has let us in an absolutely second ditch. If any of those who have participated in this process came here today and said that we were making an effort, we did something wrong, we are correcting it or we have corrected it, we will correct the situation, and we will admit some mistake, some tactical error, maybe too much political pressure on the fact that the fix, the fix, all must be locked... No, in principle, everything has been very correct and must be continued. I did not say to anyone who voted for Mrs Znotiņa at the time. I would probably also have voted in favour if there were no other - better, I know - candidacy. I'm not a huge specialist on those issues either, but some time has passed. In my opinion, we can begin to assess whether we want to sit in such a ditch for the next five years. There is a specific responsibility here for this institution and for the manager, and that responsibility is called... under the heading ‘Typologies and features of money laundering’ issued by the Financial Intelligence Agency. I will give you just a few examples. In principle, any businessman who has opened a business hit at least (I count on its top)... at least six will signify the same fact that he has a company, he is suspected. I will not count everything I have written about 50 interesting ones, but I do not have such a long period of debate. I'll read some. First... They divide into signs A, B, C, D. The first is the sign of A1. ‘ Information of a negative nature publicly available on the persons involved in the transaction (e.g. true beneficiaries, authorised persons, members of the board, legal persons).’ Sandis Riekstins, for example, runs the company, and I am his competitor. As you all understand, especially in politics, it is not too difficult to create negative information in public space. And he's a suspect right now. ‘ The company’s website shows that there is no economic activity.’ Interesting to say that it's going to be done, well, we're making invoices there or otherwise... ‘For example, the website has not been updated for a long time and the goods indicated therein are not sold, exist or services are not provided.’ There is no detailed description of what is, if the website is not, but if it is and if the website contains, for example, some or one opening with the company logo, well, there is no... This does not indicate any economic activity of the assets, of course. The essence of the website has long since become obsolete. But that is not all, of course. Is A17 - “Publicly available information that individuals are related to companies that regularly win public procurement”. So if you've won a public procurement, for example, about building a prison in Liepaja, you're a suspect. Especially if you're still in communication with him, even if you haven't won there, you're also suspected, that's how we... It's, of course... This is, by the way, the most logical thing if we take separate purchases, it really shows. But it may be that it is not quite right. I'm not going to miss a long time anymore. Just a few more. A, “a legal person with an account in Latvia carries out the payment of representation and hospitality expenses, which may be linked to the promotion of economic activities abroad, in particular in relations with business officials of foreign institutions”. I will give one example. Food producers travel to international exhibitions. They're doing this on their stand, it's their job. All of them are suspects. And finally, what's more to me. B30 - ‘Payments made by a legal person do not correspond to the registered nature of the entity’. I thought you were running a big company... what you should record in your activities if you suddenly decided to buy new waste bins... They are, of course, not described in your economic activity. And so on, and so on. Another very suspicious sign was that you have several accounts and you are coordinating between accounts. I think it is rare, of course, so many accounts do not exist, but everyone with several accounts - they probably coordinate the difference between their accounts.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U62	Thank you. Thank you, the joint debate is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U63	Thank you. I call, of course, for a vote to be taken against the following...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U64	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U65	Dear colleagues, It was interesting to listen to this debate from our colleagues. However, I would urge you here to take the issue very seriously and remember the role of this person we are voting on today and why these issues have arisen at all. I thought... Here it was criticised that our entrepreneurs - and that is the fact - are choosing other Member States of the European Union, where to build their own businesses, where to maintain their actual business addresses, despite being active in our country. All this, in my view, is the sole personal responsibility of the head of government that he has failed to achieve the implementation of these common principles in all the Member States of the European Union, wherever we are in the context of the single market. If we are not able to achieve this, then the previous speaker is absolutely right: we are in unequal conditions of competition, absolutely with all these requirements. There are a number of cases that we have heard about quite absurd situations. I join Mr Gobzem - it's true, it's stupid for you to have your account frozen for EUR 30, that something has happened... If this is the case, it is not normal. But in this case, we all remember the situation in 2018, in what situation Latvia was... and what situation it is in today. The only thing we could blame is that we don't come... and on the part of the government, also from the same service, there is no analysis on the part of the Bank of Latvia and no legislative initiatives to prevent these absurdities. There is a series of absurd things that I think are a matter of dialogue, discussions, and whatever is blaming here, the Saeima itself is responsible for all these absurd things. Prior to that, the Saeima approved Ms Znotiņa's position, but then passed all the laws and regulations that oblige the institutions responsible to do so. No one else. The Saeima is the Saeima, which approved this government. Government that adopted the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. The family that gave the government a mandate to do so. They are the ones who have created these conditions. And we ourselves are those who can talk about something we don't like, but at the same time we can encourage something to be changed. At this point... The overhaul of the financial market is, in our view, an example of cooperation that we work together (not only in words, but also in works) with our strategic partners. And in this case, if we see that most of this money is of Russian origin, illegal money that has been arrested in huge amounts in Latvia, of course, it is a huge concern that I would like to release this money in some way... but I regard it as such a common achievement. The failure is that we allow this money to lie down in other Member States of the European Union. But this vote, in my view, will be more a vote on whether we trust our strategic partners, whether we trust them not only in words, but also in actions and concrete votes. The Group of the Greens/ Farmers' Union has discussed this issue. And it is precisely with the aim of establishing closer cooperation with our strategic partners in the United States, which encouraged all these capital repairs... We should not continue to be blind, we will have to work with them, we will have to work together to ensure that this financial system is well-ordered, cleaned, and we must come up with initiatives from Members, from the service, to improve this order and to get rid of these absurd situations. It's in our own hands. I call for support for this decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U66	Thank you. Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U67	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, No one will protect our country, no one will build it (Interface). As far as we're concerned. Nobody! If we do not stand for our own country, for our own economy, for our own financial sector, no one will do it for us. Colleagues, if we are talking specifically about the Financial Intelligence Service, about its activities since it is led by Mrs. Ilze Znotiņa... we can look at this time section, these five years as Latvia has gone compared to Lithuania or Estonia. For example, how many licences have been issued in the financial sector to promote competitiveness, so that people have the choice of who to choose, so that entrepreneurs have the choice of who to choose? We are lagging behind both countries. How many Latvian entrepreneurs - small, medium-sized - also have private accounts abroad? You know that? ( The box “No! ”) ) Even in a small sector - direct purchase (I am involved in such - we are buying products directly from farmers) - each of the other small farmers has an account in Ireland. They have closed accounts here or have problems opening them, or the commissions are just disproportionately high. Is that right? Colleagues, that's what we want? The financial sector is one of the cornerstones of our economy. In the end, Colleagues Smith mentioned this methodology as well. It is no longer unreadable, it is publicly available information that the banks are leading. And if you talk to the banks... Yes, we can say that it is the FCTC or it is the legislator, but talk to banking specialists. They say no, we simply have a sin to answer the question that we have to answer... we do not keep this risk analysis; we better close all those accounts for you. This is a big problem. We remember the time when we called Western-oriented entrepreneurs away from these aggressor countries, both from Belarus and from Ukraine. How many of them finished their activities... chose to stay either in Lithuania or Estonia, and how - in Latvia? We have also heard these statistics from this very parliamentary troupe. And one of the basic reasons - they can't open an account here. Base case - account! Many others have also spoken about this, including the big businessmen of Unity on television, that there is already a problem with opening a basic account at the moment. And when we talked to both these representatives of the financial sector and people of various sectors, in the end this goes... Neither the FCTC, nor even the Bank of Latvia, nor the commercial banks due to internal risk requirements, has the name Ilze Znotiņa at the end. We can continue in this way for the next five years - our backwardness will be even greater. If we want to stand for our own country, we have to stand for our own country, not wait for anyone else to speak to others. Just as a strong country. If we stand for it ourselves, others will also support us. I call for the 'no' vote. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U68	Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U69	Hello, colleagues! Dear Chairman of the Saeima. I think what we are debating here is what Ilze Znotiņa and the Financial Intelligence Service have a direct responsibility at all. We are talking about banks, and the bank supervisor in Latvia has so far been the FCTC. In the future it will be this joint institution in the Bank of Latvia. In fact, I think that it is in the direction of the FCTC that most of these accusations should be directed at - it monitors and follows the work of the banks and also the misunderstandings that banks are introducing. I have already mentioned as an example when I met with the representative of the FCMC so far on the banking board and pointed out that one area that they have definitively damaged by bureaucracy is the kroying companies. I assume that what you, fellow Members, say is this bureaucracy, these pointless decisions. We must be able to distinguish whether the Znotina Authority - the Financial Intelligence Service - is directly dealing with what they are supposed to do. And I think they're doing. The money that has been criminalised, which is being put into circulation... Do you really think that you might not see anything from this criminal money? As an example, I remember the accusations of our strategic partners that money is transferred through Latvian banks, which goes further to North Korea, where missiles, ballistic missiles, which fly with each moment to go further and further. Do we want money to be washed away through Latvia, for which weapons are being prepared and people killed? The same amount of money could have been available in the Russian military industry complex as well. Do you want to take responsibility that we, with our Saeima votes, help the Russian occupations in Ukraine to kill people? I don't want to, I'm against. That is why I believe that we need to monitor this cash flow. At the same time, what my colleagues have said is very important. And we need to adopt appropriate laws here so that in future, the Bank of Latvia and also the financial supervisors of banks really approach our citizens, entrepreneurs so that they can work normally so that they do not have to open accounts in other countries, because this really happens, and if we, Members and the government, do nothing, then it will. And I want to say that we also need to listen to business organisations. I have not heard that large and small business organisations would have objections to Mrs Znotiņa. That is why I say once again: we are voting for the dirty money not to go through Latvia, so that the dirty money does not serve the occupations and kill people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U70	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U71	I would remind you that the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption supported the appointment of Ilze Znotiņa as Head of the Financial Intelligence Service. I call on the Saeima to vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U72	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the appointment of Ilze Znotiņa as Head of the Financial Intelligence Service! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 33, against - 41, refraining - 4. The draft decision is therefore rejected. (Applause) Draft decision “On the approval of Jautrite Briede as a Judge of the Constitutional Court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U73	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, During the meeting of the Legal Commission on 14 June, the draft decision “On the approval of Jautrite Briede as a Judge of the Constitutional Court” was reviewed. The Constitutional Court has seven judges. According to Article 4 of the Constitutional Court Law, judges are approved by the Saeima: three judges of the Constitutional Court are approved on the proposal of not less than 10 members of the Saeima, two - on the proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers and two - on the proposal of the Plenary of the Supreme Court. The term of office of a judge of the Constitutional Court shall be 10 years. 10 Members of the Saeima have nominated the candidacy of Ms Briede. It is necessary to approve a new judge of the Constitutional Court, because on 23 May this year the powers of a judge of the Constitutional Court expired Daiga Rezevska, who was approved in the position of a judge on a proposal from members of the Saeima. Jautrite Briede has a degree in law obtained at the University of Latvia. Since 2004 she is Senator of the Department of Administrative Cases of the Senate of the Supreme Court. Since 2009 - Associate Professor at the Department of State Law of the Faculty of Law of the University of Latvia. He also worked at the Riga Law University, the Ministry of National Reform, the State Administration Reform Office, the State Human Rights Office, the School of the State Administration. Jautrite Briede is the author and co-author of two monographs, comments of the Satversme and comments of the Administrative Procedure Law, as well as many scientific publications. Jautrite Briede is a cavalier of the Order of Three Stars, as well as awarded with the Honorary Mark of the II level of the System of Justice. The Law “On Judicial Power” provides that the Council for the Judiciary shall give an opinion to the Saeima on candidates for the position of a judge of the Constitutional Court. On 10 June of this year, the Council for the Judiciary, based on professional authority and achievements in the professional field, contributed to the development of the legal system, the professional and personal reputation of available information, the vision of the place of the Constitutional Court and the role in the country, decided to recognise the candidacy of Jautrite Briede as suitable for the position of a judge of the Constitutional Court. On 14 June, the Members of the Legal Commission listened to Jautrite Briede’s vision of the role and further development of the Constitutional Court. All relevant institutions have provided answers confirming the compliance of Jautrite Briede with the position of a judge of the Constitutional Court. The Legal Commission also found that the candidate for the position of a judge of the Constitutional Court meets the requirements of the position of a judge of the Constitutional Court laid down in the Law of the Constitutional Court. When nine Members voted in favour and two Members did not vote, the Legal Commission decided to direct consideration in the Saeima of the draft decision “On the approval of Jautrite Briede as a Judge of the Constitutional Court”. Pursuant to Article 85 of the Satversme, judges of the Constitutional Court are approved by the Saeima by a majority of not less than 51 votes of the Saeima member, therefore, on behalf of the Legal Commission, I invite to decide on draft decision “On the approval of Jautrite Briede as a judge of the Constitutional Court”. The decision is expected to enter into force on 1 September 2022. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U74	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U75	Hello, Mister Briede! You were my teacher, and you were a good teacher. , but there are some details that I want to say before you are approved or not. These details are not related to your professional knowledge. These details are related to changes in how candidates for the post are selected at the Constitutional Court. Since the famous judgment of your colleague Sanita Osipova, which in my opinion was outside the powers of the Constitutional Court, the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court has become, I would not say, politicised, but it has become dependent on our ideological views on one particular issue. It is important for some of the society, including me, to understand whether our Constitutional Court is a conservative value that reads in the Constitution what is written there, whether it is liberal, I would say, frivola, a value that reads in the Constitution what is not written there. Today, when voting for you, the Latvian Parliament should choose once again whether we are inclined to that direction, as has recently been the case that the law of one university – the University of Latvia – is becoming judges of the Constitutional Court... Faculty - one of the lecturers. And then the question arises in the political discussion whether the Constitutional Court is such as an appendix and a subordination to this faculty or vice versa - this faculty is the appropriate subordination of the Constitutional Court. And this should not, in fact, be the case. My human problem lies in the fact (that is why I am also in the treble) that from a professional point of view I have no doubt about your knowledge, but from a political point of view and from a political context, I cannot accept a direction that makes the Constitutional Court a politicised institution in which the Constitutional Court departs from legal decisions and begins to make political decisions, as your colleague did. That is why I voted 'yes' or 'no' or 'no' today... If you do not vote for your candidacy, it will be crucial. I allow some of my colleagues to have a similar problem. If you, my teacher, are elected, I would like to ask you and call on you not to be like my other teacher who intervened in the political process. There may be a variety of ideas in the political process - some may like gay marriages, others may not like gay marriages - but let us be fair from a legal point of view: we as lawyers are absolutely clear that gay marriages are not recorded in the Constitution. There is no word in any Article of the Satversme about gay marriage. And the Constitutional Court can only translate what is written in the Constitution and not what is not written in the Constitution. ( Intercretion: Vote!) ) Good luck to you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U76	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? None. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the approval of Jautrite Briede as a Constitutional Court Judge”! Please vote mode! Please the result! (Applause) - 82, against - 3, refrains - not. Thank you. voting arrangements! Please get the result! - 82, against - 3, refrains - not. Thank you. Congratulations! Congratulations to the judge of the Constitutional Court Jautrite Briede! Dear colleagues, indeed, we all congratulate the new judge of the Constitutional Court! We're going on. Draft decision on the appointment of Mr. Janis Cielen of the Saeima Member to the Education, Culture and Science Commission. Please call me! I'm sorry... Draft decision on the withdrawal of Mr. John Cielen of the Saeima Member from the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of Mr. Janis Cielen of the Saeima Member from the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Draft decision on the appointment of Mr. Janis Cielen of the Saeima Member to the Education, Culture and Science Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the appointment of the Saeima Member Jānis Cielen in the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Draft decision “On Release of the Judge of Daugavpils Court Vita Lāčplēsis from the position of a judge”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U77	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, At the meeting of the Legal Commission of Saeima on 15 June, the draft decision “On the dismissal of the judge Vita Lāčplpe from the office of a judge of Daugavpils” was reviewed. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I am inviting to release Vita Lāčrupe, a judge of Daugavpils court from the office of a judge at his own wish from July 1, 2022.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U78	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On Release of Vita Lāčplupe, Judge of Daugavpils court from the office of a judge”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. And the draft decision “On the dismissal of the judge of Latgale Regional Court from the position of a judge”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U79	During the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 15 June, the draft decision “On the dismissal of Ilga Zalužinska of the judge of Latgale regional court from the office of a judge” was reviewed. In 1981 Ilga Zalužinska graduated from the University of Latvia, obtaining the qualification of a lawyer. In 1986 she was elected judge of the Rēzekne District Court. In 1995, the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia approved Ilga Zaluzinska as a judge of Latgale Regional Court. On 18 January 2018, the Judicial Qualification Board evaluated the professional activity of judge Zalužinska positively. Awards awarded to the judge Zaluzinska: 2006 - Grade II Recognition of the Ministry of Justice and silver hair for exemplary performance of duties; 2015 - Grade I Recognition of the Ministry of Justice and gold feathers for a significant contribution to the development of the judicial system of Latvia and long-term and self-free work. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I would like to thank the judge for her fair and professional work and call on the judge of Latgale Regional Court, Ilga Zaluzinska, to be released from the office of the judge at his own wish, on 16 September 2022. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U80	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the dismissal of Ilga Zalužinskas, a judge of Latgale Regional Court from office of a judge”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Go on. Treatment of requests by Members Requests received by Members. Dear colleagues, The request of Members Viktors Valaiņa, Ulda Augulis, Armands Krauze, Gundars Dauges, Janina Jalinska, Edgars Tatars, Māra Kučinska, Jānis Vucanas, Jānis Dūklavs and Raimonds Bergmanis to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “On the readiness of Prime Minister A. K. Kariņš to ensure a continuous and cost-effective energy supply to Latvian economy and residents” has been received. Name for Member Viktor Valainis' motivation.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U81	Dear colleagues, We would like to clarify with this request the various things that have been voiced in the public space and which ask questions. However, in this case, we do not want to ask only questions. We demand that the Head of Government provide clear information both on what is waiting for us in the autumn, on what our options are, and on what motivation is to choose these two directions - in Riga and Skulte - regarding the further development of the LNG terminal. We are primarily interested in the question of why we have been rejected... and beyond, neither Liepaja nor Ventspils direction, about which... I think there has already been a pretty serious study of both. And in this requested information, we look forward to concrete answers. It also seems very incomprehensible to us how it can be that we... As if we are planning to buy liquefied natural gas from this Klaipeda terminal, but if its information is true, then... we would like to hear from the government an explanation of why this natural gas is purchased through intermediaries (through intermediaries!) , not directly, in cooperation with the Lithuanian Government, the Ministry of Economics and making use of our own opportunities. Colleagues, we call for these clarifications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U82	Thank you. Consequently, we shall refer the request to the Requesting Commission. On the agenda - under the heading ‘Handling draft laws’. Draft law “Amendments to the law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Normunds Gunna.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U83	Hello, colleagues! The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs has prepared for the first reading the draft law drafted by the Commission itself “Amendments to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance”. The law is necessary to transpose the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on work-life balance for parents and carers by providing for paternity leave and, consequently, the payment of paternity benefit for 10 working days (currently set at 10 calendar days). These amendments are also compatible with those contained in the draft law on "Amendments to Labour Law". The law also includes norms aimed at complying with the judgement of the Constitutional Court of 12 November 2020 and harmonising the norms of the law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance” with the necessary amendments to the Labour Law, which provides: if the paternity of the child is not recognised or established, then another person, other than the mother of the child, will have the right to 10 working days of leave in order to engage in child care at the request of the mother of the child. The law is foreseen to enter into force on 1 August 2022. Colleagues, I call for this draft law to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U84	Members have not applied to speak about urgency. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U85	I invite you to support the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance” at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U86	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U87	I call for support to be given to the draft law at second reading without re-examination by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U88	Do Members have objections (Interface: Yes!) ) against the examination of the draft law at second reading without re-examination by the commission responsible? And the objections. In such a case, please set a time limit for the proposals and the time for the hearing at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U89	Time-limit for the submission of proposals for second reading - 10 minutes. And second reading - Saeima meeting on 16 June.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U90	So the deadline for submitting proposals... Well, let's say, at 12.10. The deadline for submitting proposals is 16 June at 12.10. Review - Saeima on 16 June this year. Thank you. The second reading of the draft law “On the ban on exhibiting and dismantling of objects famous for Soviet and Nazi regimes in the territory of the Republic of Latvia”. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Ritvars Jansons.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U91	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Highly respected Members and honourable Members! The Commission for Education, Culture and Science has examined and prepared for the second, final, reading draft law “On the prohibition of the exhibition of objects famous for Soviet and Nazi regimes and their dismantling in the territory of the Republic of Latvia”. The second reading of the draft law received proposals from Members, Ministers and the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, as well as the commission formed its own proposals. 1. - the proposal by Member Mednes to extend the scope of the law, supplemented by changes in street names. In the Commission, the proposal was not supported, as the Commission decided that the change of street names would be seen in the opening of this new law so as to develop as soon as possible a framework for bans and dismantling of objects.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U92	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Linda Medne.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U93	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima and colleagues! For the second reading of this draft law, I have submitted a number of proposals to the Education, Culture and Science Commission to substantially extend the scope of this law. The proposals were not supported by the Commission. I will not request a vote. And I'll explain why. The essence of my proposals was to complement this draft law so that it would address the elimination of the Communist heritage of Latvia on a much broader scale. Conservatives, like many other patriots in Latvia, are inexplicable as, in the 21st century, when the third world war, which is essentially Nazi Russia's beginnings, we can afford to be moderate in our attitude towards occupation famous monuments and street names. I am well aware of the importance of the particular law, and therefore I do not want to insist on the vote in order not to make difficult the main objective of this draft law, which is to be viewed as a matter of urgency, - the removal of occupation monuments in public outdoors in Latvia until 11 November 2022, because it would be a very beautiful gift to our national holiday. But my colleagues and I will continue to take part in the work so that other objects of communist heritage, from which we had to be able to get rid of for a long time, will be defined by law and overshadowed forever. I do not request a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U94	Thank you. Name to Member Karl Shadursky.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U95	President-in-Office. Dear colleagues, I, like Mrs Mednes, will not request a vote. Mr Janson said that street names should be considered in another opening of this law. I have a slightly different view: I believe that the essentially solution to the issue of street names is already contained in Article 3 of the draft law, which refers to "other objects". And from the context of this paragraph and from the point of view of the purpose of the whole law, it is quite clear that now... The principle of the Communist totalitarian regime, enshrined in the Constitution, already presupposes that it is necessary to disappear from official local names to praise the troops of the Soviet occupation and their ideological propaganda. The wording of Article 3 of the draft law, ‘other objects’ meeting the criteria of the article, clearly indicates that street names of Latvian cities, such as ‘Detlava Brantkalna iela’, ‘Staraja Rusas iela’ (also called two streets in Riga), as well as similar street names, must disappear. Mrs Mednes, on the other hand... Proposal No 5... the above paragraph 4, which is included here... Well, I guess one of the next proposals... it would, in principle, narrow the scope of the law. This proposal is therefore not acceptable. But, honourable colleagues, it is absolutely clear that the committee responsible is rejecting this proposal... either with the knowledge that the matter will be considered in more detail in the future, or with the knowledge that it has already been resolved and the municipalities that will be the performers of this law must act in accordance, for example, with the introductory spirit of the Satversme... There is already a tool for this action to be taken so that all names that praise the Soviet or Nazi regime, the persons and events associated with it disappear completely and irreversibly from the public space. Consequently, this proposal is not necessary, in my view, in this law. But in general, the law is... I would like to call on the committee responsible, which has worked very responsibly and successfully with this draft law. Today, in fact, we are going to do an extremely good job that we should have done a long time ago.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U96	I closed the debate. The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U97	The proposal was not supported by the Commission and Members do not ask for a vote on it.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U98	Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U99	2. - the proposal from Member Mednes. As the task of this law is also to determine the process of renaming the streets, but as I said, it was decided in the Commission that this process of renaming the streets will still be decided in relation to this law. Consequently, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U100	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U101	I think that this is the “essential” issue, which in general is the 13th issue. A family is possible. So Parliament before the heating season... will rename streets in Latvia as a matter of urgency. This will certainly reduce the prices of granules. If we rename Riga streets, then I allow the gas prices to go down. If the streets of Rezekne are renamed, then I allow the fuel prices to return to pre-crisis conditions. And that's the spirit. I think it's vibrating with those flags and foreheads... At a time when people have to solve real life problems, when people are worried about how they will wait for the next winter, the next heating season, and are already standing in rows after granules (they become twice every week and three times every week... And 10 times... I don't know, it's about to be a hundred times more expensive), taking around street names is, to put it mildly, just stupid. This time, while we change the names of the street, we would have spent together thinking and accepting... By the way, today is the question of how to give a discount on the price of fuel. That would be a much more important issue, which Mrs Mednes would have had to fight for, in my opinion, it would have been worth getting up on the platform. Just such a little replica. In Latvia, during the last 30 years, no decision has yet been made to worship idolatry... The fight against the imaginary opponent - street names - has not brought welfare to Latvian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U102	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U103	2. - Mrs Mednes' proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U104	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U105	3. - Mr Kirštein's proposal. It is stated that objects should also be dismantled in the burial sites of soldiers who have died in war, as well as in the memorial sites of the victims of the Soviet or Nazi terror, if the weapons of the Soviet armed forces are represented there. Representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs were heard in the Commission, who indicated that the inviolability of burial sites of fallen Soviet soldiers was regulated by an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the status of burials of Latvia in the territory of the Russian Federation and the status of burials of Russia in the territory of the Republic of Latvia. Therefore, both burials and related facilities are inviolable. The Commission did not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U106	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U107	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Honourable Members! I would like to touch on precisely the tomb issue because this week... all of us are aware of the screaming event in Jēkabpils when persons... control... Officials from the municipality of Jēkabpils and the so-called search unit in fact demolished the grave, burial site in Jēkabpils. ( Internouncing call.) In my opinion, this case is incompatible with European values and shows a clear disrespect for the memory of the Second World War. ( Internouncing call.) A number of our group are currently considering addressing the Office of the Prosecutor General with the question of whether these works are compatible with the rule of law. In my opinion, this is just about legal nihilism.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U108	I closed the debate. For the Commission, please... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U109	3. - Mr Kirstein's proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U110	Members shall not object. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Vote? Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - Mr Kirstein's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 12, for - 62, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U111	4. - the proposal from Member Mednes. It is stated that objects can be demonstrated in state accredited museums or private museums with which the Latvian Occupational Museum has concluded a cooperation agreement, and it is prohibited to keep specific street names. The Commission discussed the issue of exhibition and concluded that when the object came into the collection of the Museum of Occupation of Latvia, the museum can deposit the object to another museum without a cooperation agreement. The Commission also created a new... Article 9 of the law, as reflected in proposal 30. The third part of this section states that the Museum of Occupation of Latvia may deposit original parts or fragments of dismantled objects in its collection to a state, municipality or private accredited museum. In view of these circumstances, as well as the fact that the Commission will still look at the change in street names, Mrs Mednes' proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U112	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U113	5. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Janson, which allows objects to be exhibited only in accredited museums. This means that here is the state control over the exhibition of objects, because accredited museums are regularly accredited in the accreditation processes to be carried out according to the procedure established by state regulatory enactments. And these museums carry out both research, exhibition and stock maintenance work. And so these objects are controlled from the state as well. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U114	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U115	6. - the proposal from Member Mednes. The Member constructs Section 4 of the Law so that it defines not only the objects to be dismantled, but also the streets to be renamed. Rejected by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U116	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U117	7. - Mr Kirštein's proposal. Contrary to the first reading, all the objects to be dismantled shall be defined in the first paragraph of Article 4. This proposal is linked to 8. - Mr Kirstein's proposal. The Commission is not supported because... In this case, the possibility to decide on objects to the Cabinet of Ministers is excluded. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U118	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U119	8 / 8 - Mr Kirštein's proposal. Provides for this possibility - to decide on objects for the Cabinet of Ministers - to exclude from the draft law. The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U120	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U121	9. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Janson. The provision of the law on dismantling rules shall be supplemented. Partially supported, included 15 and 30. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U122	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U123	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. A clarification of the laser scanning of objects. Partially supported, included 15. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U124	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U125	11. - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr Indrickson. Provision shall be made for the municipality to carry out the dismantling of objects by its own means or to instruct its institution or capital company to do so without the need to register in the register of construction cooperatives. Partly supported by the Commission, includes 19. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U126	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U127	12. - Member Asheraden's proposal to include parts or fragments of objects in the collection of the Museum of Occupation of Latvia and to deposit them with other museums. Partially supported, included 30. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U128	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U129	13. - Mr Valaina's proposal. Demolition of facilities shall be provided no later than 23 August 2022. The Commission was not supported as the Commission already at first reading supported the implementation of the dismantling of sites by 15 November of this year at the latest. This date as the later date of dismantling of the monument of Pārdaugava was underlined by the Riga City Council.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U130	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U131	Dear colleagues, Already at the time of the adoption of this draft law at first reading, I was moved from this troupe that this deadline, when this deadline enters into force, should be shorter than the deadline of 15 November currently set by the law. Colleagues, this date, which I offer, is deeply symbolic. It is symbolic that on this very day - 23 August - two powers decided the fate of our country of Latvia. And this monument is also built, to a large extent, on the basis of the creation of this treaty. Colleagues, I would not very much like questions about this monument - whether or not to be - to be on the political agenda on 14. Saeima for the elections. In my view, these discussions must come to an end, just as this monument must cease to exist in the summer. I propose that it be set in this law on a deep symbolic date - 23 August - and that it should take place until that date. Colleagues, I call for support for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U132	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U133	Colleagues! There are local governments which, without any law, remove all these occupations from their territory. There are people who are ready to act and pour these occupations into the Daugava, free of charge. And there is the Riga City Council - those who need a special law that gives their municipality police protection to these occupations. We, I think, had to break down yesterday, as a minimum, all these small occupations, located at Kisezer, Jugla and elsewhere. Here is a proposal to do this demolition by August 23, which is the day of the memory of the victims of Stalinism and Nazism. It would be very correct, symbolicly, that already on this date no more be a laudable object of the Soviet Union. But I understand that someone might be concerned that something can't be done, somewhere... needs long commissions, money needs to be learned, and so on. In the worst case, support the next proposal, which is scheduled for 15 September. Now we don't pull these processes. We don't pull these processes long! We have examples that municipalities can, if they want to, and there are examples that municipalities that do not want to, look for a hundred and one excuse why something cannot be done. I call for support for the shortest possible time limits so that these Soviet ghosts disappear as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U134	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U135	Colleagues, I would also call on the National Association to stop playing theatre. The national association is in this government and also in a coalition at the Riga Council. Well, if you wanted to, you without all those decisions... Take it down and just take it off the monument, not you'll make it some kind of political game out of the podium! Now take it and just do it, not just decide! You decide, then you decide again... Every week you decide something. Take it and do it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U136	Name to Member Janis Dombrava for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U137	I would like to say to Mr Gobzem that the presence of the National Association in the Riga City Council is not something... It goes without saying. If we cannot fulfil the conditions of our programme, then there will not be any need for presence in such a coalition, talking about Riga City Council.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U138	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U139	For the Commission - Mr Valaiņa's proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U140	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 13. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 20, for - 60, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U141	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Member's Dealer. Demolition of facilities shall be foreseen by 15 September 2022 at the latest. In the Commission, the proposal was not supported as the Commission had already supported, at first reading, the implementation of the dismantling of sites by 15 November of this year at the latest. And with this date, the majority of the commission remained.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U142	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, John Isal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U143	Hello, colleagues! My proposal is to remove - within three months of this day - all the occupations left in Latvia where the municipalities have not yet gone to remove them. This, in my opinion, is enough time to be done with any such object, including the object in Pārdaugava. It is the most favorable time of the year for construction, and therefore also for demolition works. And on the practical implementation, in my opinion, there should be no doubt whether this is possible. However, this vote is also a vote on whether we will all go to the voters on 1 October with the work that has been done - with the occupations that have been destroyed all over Latvia - or with the current, perhaps empty promises that those who may vote against this proposal do not intend to do at all. ( Independence: “Aha! ” ) I therefore call on all those who really want to demolish the occupations in Latvia to do so until the elections, supporting my proposal and not once again go to the voters with promises that... I personally do not have one hundred percent faith that they will be fulfilled if the deadline is after the elections. I call on you to support my proposal to dismantle all the occupations by 15 September. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U144	Name to Member Aigar Bikšem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U145	Dear colleagues, I would like to say that any action must be reasonable and any deadlines must be reasonable. And, like any question, we, as Members of the Saeima, consulted those competent people... Those who understand how such objects have been created and also understand how such objects can be dismantled or dismantled. In the Commission we also heard the opinion of the Artists' Union of Latvia; they explain that such an object... Well, in this case we are talking about this big object in Riga... However, these are planning works and those that are necessary to dismantle this object in a respectful way... and I want to say, in a respectful way, because it is Latvian, let's say it... This big woman's image - it's the work of a Latvian sculptor... And, of course, it has no place in these political conditions, it has no place in the heart of Riga city, but it has a place in the Latvian cultural space and one of the museums of Latvia. And in this case, the Museum of Occupation of Latvia will decide how it will be exhibited and further exhibited. I want to say that... I understand, of course, the emotional tension that we are currently experiencing, and also in society, but I just want to say that often we, as a society, have acted very carelessly by removing something, removing it, damaging it, and never doing so in cultural history, have not paid off. We would be very happy if there were less burned Catholic sculptures after the Lutheran reform in Riga. Likewise, many years later, when Russia will no longer be a scare to our society, we will look at these objects and they will be interesting cultural and historical objects about which society will say that we have taken them with our attention (Interview.) and respect. Thank you. I call on you not to support this offer and to support what is... November Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U146	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U147	It's always with that urtrapathy and with the flags. Mr. Bikše, I think that your mayor from the Parish is in the Riga City Council. It's going to be all down. It's going to be... It's just... it's all falling apart... He'll do everything. Nothing. The national association, too, will be there, everything will be there. Nothing again. And now in the Saeima every week, in order to be able to hold a discussion, not to talk about issues that are really important for Latvian society, namely how to feed families in these superinflations, supercrisis conditions, when people don't know what to do in the autumn... makes pictures from shops, how prices are rising every day... will now talk about it every week, whether it is mixed or not, how much plans you need there, how much plans you don't need there. Those who understand something from construction know very clearly that there is no huge need for plans, especially if they are to design, dismantle and so on. If I wanted to, it would have been a long time ago. No one actually... As I said in my first speech on this subject: how I stand here: nothing will be dismantled at those times that colleagues have talked about with foam on their lips. And I was right. Of course, nothing will be destroyed either. The discussion will be maintained. Dear pensioners, residents of Latvia, patriots of Latvia! You need to understand that this debate is simply being maintained, so that there is no socio-economic issue, so that there is no question of people's well-being. And then this theme, which is also being grounded all the time - every week in the morning to the evening. Well, in such a typical bureaucratic sauce, it's spoken, but it's not done. If you are so brave, take it and take it off! This week. By Sunday at 12 noon. You are all in one coalition at the end - both in the Riga City Council and in the country. What's the problem with you? Jedanook is preventing you from tearing down those monuments or Rubik? Who? Who is it? ( Milestones.) It's your own will! In fact, you are disturbed by your own fear or by your own duality, realizing that then you will not have to talk about what to talk about until the elections, because then you will have to talk about how people buy granules, how people buy gas, how people buy chips, how to pay for electricity, how to pay for water, which becomes more expensive. ( We have floods, but water becomes more expensive.) How to pay for food in stores, how to index pensions. By the way, teachers are right here at the Saeima. How to pay teachers - then we will have to talk about it. But you don't want to talk about it. I want to talk about stones, about flags. All flags have been set up by this flank, except for Latvia. ( Milestones.) They don't even know how the Latvian flag looks, Latvia has been sold for a long time... they have. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Depp. J. Pouce’s intermediate call.) The shame of the flower with the passes has already been tested, so, Puce, listen! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U148	Name to Member Janis Dombrava. Colleagues! Indeed, the issues of mutual relations, please do not go beyond the sitting. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U149	However, I call on Mr Bikše not to be on the table on this matter. I'll explain why. Because a few years ago Mr Bikše was the one who came and said to the Education, Culture and Science Commission that this object should be preserved at least or at any cost. That's the truth. ( Internouncing call.) Yes, at that time he came as a sculptor, as an expert. Also a few years ago, in 2018, he said in public media that Latvian politicians should admit that the day of victory is, in principle, a good day. It's not an expert to listen to!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U150	Colleagues, let us return to the subject of the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U151	Yes, coming back to the proposal. As I said, political will must be there. And it must be shown fast enough, not sometime after the elections, when the next government will come together and decide how to steer and do all the processes. A clear deadline should be set. 23 August was rejected, I call for support on 15 September. Of course, demolition works can be carried out even tonight, but on 15 September would then remain in the law as the deadline for these works to be completed. That is possible. I therefore also call for its support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U152	Okay, colleagues, let us continue to mix the monument after a break. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name Inese Voika to report the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U153	Colleagues! Not registered: Arvils Asheradens... who is, Aldis Blumbergs, Normunds Dzintars, Raivis Dzintars, Alexander Kirštein... Normund Dzintars is... Rihards Kols, Maris Kučinskis, Ralfs Nemiro, Edmunds Teirumnieks, Atis Zakaitistovs and Gatis Zamurs... Which is it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U154	Thank you. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U155	Dear colleagues, I'm sorry for this short delay. Just together with the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, we met with the representatives of the PIZDA. Let's keep going. On the agenda - draft law “On the ban on exhibiting and dismantling of objects famous for Soviet and Nazi regimes in the territory of the Republic of Latvia”. A debate was opened on proposal 14. We are continuing the debate. The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U156	Dear colleagues of the Saeima! While you fled from the teachers who demanded higher salaries, you could have fled to the Victory Park and for all of them in the coalition to start treating their monument, rather than going for your dear lunch on the rest of the Old Riga restaurants. That's the number one. Number two. What is now sounding from the parliamentary tribunal is like a socialist competition - which will name an earlier date when to rename something, which street... disposed of. In the socialist competition, it was - called some dates and did nothing. And there's another important thing. On the day when teachers are at the Saeima and demand more salary (and their demand is reasonable, by the way, with 600 euros it is impossible to survive), and on the day when you decide on flags and monuments, here is not the majority of the National Association, which is about demographics and patriotism... Not at all in the hall... Not Raivis Dzintars, not Richard Colls. In fact, almost one of the National Association is not here. Where are the great patriots and the promoters of demographics then? ( Internouncing call.) The only thing that moves you to demographics is... You know who...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U157	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U158	... in your organization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U159	The name of the Member, Janis Izalnieks, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U160	Good afternoon! Aldis Gobzems invited all of us to go together and mix that occupation stable in Pārdaugava. I would say that, in accordance with the Constitution, the work of the Saeima is legislation and we do so. We are deciding today on the manner in which the executive powers are to do so within what time limits. Yes, Gundars Kalve, a member of the National Association, cast a cannon, a local occupation in the city of Jēkabpils last year. A few months ago, social networks showed a video of a young man with a hammer, went to the occupation room in Pārdaugava, a daussing board. I know him, this young man, he is not an extremist, rather a centurist, he was at least so far a supporter of Unity, but he could be just as well a Development/About! A supporter of the Conservatives, or Gobzem, or the Green and Farmers’ Union. It doesn't matter. It is important that the majority of Latvian citizens expect us to take decisive action and work before the elections, which we can show, rather than make promises to postpone something again. For 30 years we have left the transition to one language, now we want to postpone the removal of the occupation until 15 November. Let us stop this delay, let's finally do the job to the end, so that if, because of some coincidence, the god doesn't give it, on 15 November all these occupations will not be removed... so that voters should not then pull out the list of this vote and look who is responsible for it, who voted against this proposal - make it before the elections, by 15 September... what can be done. I call for the vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U161	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U162	Dear colleagues, My previous proposal, which meant that this date should be 23 August, was very similar, with the same motivation as Mr Iesalnieks. In my view, at the moment, while this monument is still standing there, when there has been an understanding at all political levels that this monument should be dismantled or dismantled, political discussions will continue here, in the Saeima, in Riga City Council and in other councils... Wound cutting... and indeed there is a possibility - if this date is postponed after the elections, absolutely what will happen - that the pre-election will be an active debate in the debate - an active debate! - the question of being a monument or not a monument, about various activities, about whom it is dedicated. All this will be, but we will not talk about why there are thousands of educators out of here today. Several thousands of educators are currently demanding a solution for teachers' salaries. Colleagues, we should have questions on the agenda about the salaries of educators, about the seniors, about how we get out of the economic crisis. We must rise to these issues and remove the issues of monuments, whether it be or not, as soon as possible from the Saeima's debate - it has already been decided. This proposal by Mr Izalnieks provides for a faster move so that it does not go beyond the pre-election debate. I also stood up for it. I think it would be wrong for us to put the pre-election debate on the subject: it is necessary or not to be a monument. Just before the Saeima, I spoke to many educators who demanded reasonable wages. They asked for the promises to be fulfilled. A teacher gave me this poster. She asked to show it to the Members of the Saeima (Shows a poster: “On promises of answer and money for salaries you find!” (See paragraph 4.5 of this Regulation.) so that Members of the Saeima can see... Members of the Saeima are the ones who didn't go to talk to picklers who stabbed their heads and passed through a crowd of educators... let them see and let them know what the educators are about - about reasonable wages. Get off arrogantly, colleagues! Let us address the issues that need to be addressed, and I call for this issue of monuments to be supported so that this happens more quickly, now that it does not come out after the next elections, and that we do not work on what and how better during the elections. To 14. This should be removed from the political debate in the parliamentary elections. This question (Shows a poster.) is much more important than this monument. ( The transcripts; the transcript: “Go out and read, it is there! ” ; intermediate call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U163	The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U164	Colleagues, I would have been very pleased to hear such a debate before... many questions in advance, to be precise, on paragraph 10 of the agenda, when we talked about this plan... the absence of a plan. It would be like a sweet song for my ears - to hear and argue... from the coalition that we will introduce it by September, no, better now, in just two weeks. That is what we should talk about at the moment, not what date we should break it down. Let's not be naive. This issue will be pulled up for a long time, until October. And, of course, this offer is on September because September - it is the ideal time just before the elections, because people regrettably, as well as many public comments about it, are quite short... such important events. Until recently, we fought against the Covid’s pandemic, and the major dullers mentioned the fact that the public administration is unable to think and take away musicians, but in the end, the same musicians go to Unity. That is our reality: the key issues of this troupe are not talked about, so I call once... For all time... However, one of the coalitions is going to climb the table and explain what is then the date on which we will talk about the support mechanisms in this energy crisis, what support measures will be available to educators who are currently protesting, because this problem has not arisen in recent weeks, this is a problem for years. And finally, if we have enough time and desire, we can talk about these monuments. But we can see that in Jacob's city very civilized and orderly, as it was also purposed for, unlocked, found and further buried in graves where other soldiers were laid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U165	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U166	For the Commission... 14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Member's Dealer was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U167	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 14. - a proposal from the Member's Dealer! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 19, it's against - 40, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U168	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Commission proposal. Defines the rules for dismantling, specifying that municipalities also carry out documentation of the objects to be dismantled, i.e. photo fixation. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U169	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U170	16. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Technical. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U171	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U172	17. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It shall be specified that the municipality is entitled to propose the dismantling of the site regardless of the origin of the land on which the site to be dismantled is located. Supported by the Commission. ( Interface: “Let’s vote! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U173	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U174	So 18. ( The utterances: ‘ Vote! ’) ) 18 and...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U175	I'm sorry. The 17th wanted to vote? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) About 17. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 17. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U176	18. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is foreseen that the municipality shall inform in writing the owner of the land on which the site to be dismantled is located before the construction of the site begins. Partially supported, included 19. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U177	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U178	19. - Commission proposal. Complements Article 6 of the draft law with a new sixth and seventh paragraph that dismantling of municipal objects in an accelerated procedure may be carried out with the help of its institution or capital company and that the municipality shall inform the owner of the land on which the object is located about dismantling. This proposal is supported by the Commission. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U179	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 19. - The proposal of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U180	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Janson. For an accelerated procurement procedure. Partially supported, included 21. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U181	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U182	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Commission proposal. Expresses Article 7 of the draft law on the specific provisions of the procurement procedure in an updated version. Supported by the Commission. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U183	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 21. - The proposal submitted by the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 57, no, 19, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U184	So 22. - Commission proposal. The title of Article 8 from ‘funding the dismantling of an object’ to ‘financing the dismantling of an object’ is redefined, as dismantling is a broader concept. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U185	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U186	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is envisaged that the dismantling of an object is financed from state budget funds, contrary to the support of the Saeima at first reading, that the dismantling is financed to the same extent by the state and the municipality. The Commission was not supported because the majority of the commission decided that dismantling of this facility should be carried out jointly and severally by both the State and the municipality, because the obligation of the municipality, even in this case, if it is located on the municipality's land, is to take care of dismantling of the facility. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U187	Members (Interface: “Vote!” )... You want to vote? Please call me! We will vote in favour 23. - The Legal Bureau's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U188	24. - a proposal similar to that of Member Šuplinska. There is no support in the Commission. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U189	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 24. - Mrs Šuplinska's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U190	25. - Asheraden's proposal. It is established that the restrictions laid down in Article 14 of the Law “On Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the Activities of a Public Officer” shall not apply to the funds donated for dismantling of an object meeting the criteria of Article 3 of this Law, and the supplement shall be - also for services. They do not apply either. Partially supported, included 27. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U191	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U192	26. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Technical. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U193	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U194	27. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. These are technical corrections to the draft law on donations. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U195	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U196	28. - the proposal from Member Mednes. The order of exhibition of the monument. In this version, the Commission did not support this proposal, but in its proposal 30, the Commission defined that the Museum of Occupation of Latvia is conducting public education, using details and fragments of objects, in accordance with the laws and regulations governing the activities of the museum. The Commission is therefore not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U197	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U198	29. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Janson. The intention is to create a new one - 9. - an article on the financing of documentation of the facilities and the maintenance of the demolished facilities. Partially supported, included 30. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U199	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U200	And 30. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supplement the draft law with Article 9 with the following title: “Inclusion of original parts and fragments of dismantled objects in the collection of the Museum of Occupation of Latvia”. The matter was analysed by the Commission, and the Commission came to the best solution in the Commission’s view. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U201	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U202	31. - the proposal from Member Mednes. Supplements to the transitional provisions already adopted by the Commission at first reading. And in this case it was precisely about dismantling the underground part of Pārdaugava monument and cleaning of its territory, where the Commission had determined that these works should be carried out until 30 June 2023. Member Medne proposed to supplement the transitional provisions by stating that these works, except if the municipality decides to keep the cellar under the monument and the artificial pond attached to it for further development of the Victory Park, may take place within a different time limit. The Commission did not support this proposal because the Riga City Council, expressing its views in the Commission, supported the wording of the first reading on the fact that by 30 June 2023 the dismantling of underground parts of the monument of Pārdaugava is taking place and the clean-up of the territory is also being implemented by this date. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U203	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U204	32. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Technical. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U205	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U206	33. - also a proposal from the Legal Office. Technical. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U207	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U208	34. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Thus, transitional provisions are laid down to the same extent by this proposal, that is to say, both on the arrangement of the exempted territory and on the financing of the implementation of the law, including paragraph 5 of the transitional provisions, that ‘[t]he monuments, memorial signs, memorial plates, memorial places, until the commencement of the dismantling of objects, placed in the public outer space, public building or in the inside of a public person, shall not be moved, dismantled or destroyed’. It is also stipulated that the law will enter into force on the day following that of its publication. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U209	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U210	On behalf of the Commission (Interface: 'Vote!') )...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U211	There has been a wish to vote in favour of this proposal? Please call me! To be put to the vote on 34. - The proposal submitted by the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U212	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U213	Please call me! We will vote for the second, final reading of the draft law “On the ban on exhibiting and dismantling of objects famous for Soviet and Nazi regimes in the territory of the Republic of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, (Applause) The law has been passed. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on Political Parties”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Edwin Šnore.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U214	Hello, dear colleagues! We can see the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Political Parties”. For the second, final, reading 19 proposals have been received. 1. - Member Mozhville's proposal. Imputations shall be made of cases which would be prohibited in the action of political parties. Partly supported and included 4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U215	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U216	2. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, Kronberg. It's about the same. Partly supported and included 4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U217	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U218	3. - A proposal from the National Security Commission. Also on the same subject. Partly supported and included 4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U219	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U220	4. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Bring together and offer the final formulation of cases that are prohibited for political parties. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U221	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U222	5. - A proposal from the National Security Commission. This applies to the authorities that supervise the activities of political parties by proposing the inclusion of national safety authorities. Supported and included 7. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U223	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U224	6. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, Kronberg. It is also about the supervisory authorities. Supported, included 7. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U225	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U226	And seven. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U227	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U228	8 / 8 - A proposal from the National Security Commission. Partially supported, included 9. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U229	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U230	9. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U231	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U232	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the National Security Commission. Partially supported, included 11. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U233	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U234	11. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U235	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U236	12. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, Kronberg. It states that the activities of political parties cannot conflict with the Constitution, offers wording. Partially supported, included 14. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U237	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U238	13. - A proposal from the National Security Commission. On a similar subject. Partially supported, included 14. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U239	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U240	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U241	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U242	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the National Security Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U243	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U244	16. - also a proposal from the National Security Commission. Partially supported, included 18. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U245	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U246	17. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, Kronberg. Partially supported, included 18. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U247	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U248	18. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U249	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U250	And the last one is 19. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U251	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U252	I call on the Saeima to support this draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U253	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the second, final, final reading of the draft law on the law on political parties! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Dear colleagues, Changes to the agenda of the sitting have been tabled. Members Maris Možvillo, Ramona Petraviča, Ieva Krapāne, Ēriks Pucens and Karina Sprūde are asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Political Organisations (Parties)” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Maris Možvillo.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U254	Hello, chair of the sitting! Hello, colleagues! When the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption examined the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Political Parties”, the management of the Office for Prevention and Combating Corruption addressed us with a question and proposal to open also the Law on Financing of Political Organisations (Parties), which would need to be brought into line with the norms of the Law on Political Parties, as it is now a situation that the Law on Political Parties stipulates that the political parties can stop the operation of the political party, while the Office for Prevention and Combating Corruption cannot stop the costs for these suspended parties. I therefore ask colleagues to put the draft law on the agenda and move forward with this draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Political Organisations (Parties). Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U255	Thank you. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Uldis Augulis, Armands Krauze, Jānis Dūklavs, Jānis Vucāns, Janīna Jalinska and others are asking for changes to the agenda of the sitting and to include the draft decision “On withdrawal of Member Jānis Dūklavs from the Sustainable Development Commission”. Are Members against this agenda? ( Insight: “Yes! Yes!’ ) Please call us! We will vote for the inclusion on the agenda of the draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Jānis Dūklavs from the Commission for Sustainable Development! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ( Milestones.) The draft decision is on the agenda of the sitting. Members Uldis Augulis, Armands Krauze, Jānis Dūklavs, Jānis Vucāns, Janīna Jalinska and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft decision “On the withdrawal of Member Māra Kučinska from the National Security Commission”. Mr. Tatar, you will speak. E. Tavars: “ Against”.’ )... ‘to’. So "no" has applied to speak to Member Edgars Tavars.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U256	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I did not think I would ever climb into a tribunal to talk about a Member's movement in relation to commissions because I believe that it is really the free will of these Members, in which they want to work on which - they do not want to - and I have a duty to confirm it. But this is not the case at all. Colleagues, we are talking about the National Security Commission, whose manager Iivars Lembergs wants to replace. I know it very well; you like it or you don't like it. I am convinced that perhaps a very large number, or at least some of the co-signators of this document, who are driving a new Member are not aware of this. But when it comes to withdrawal, colleagues, I know that very well. Just take that into account. I've been in such a conversation, I'm on the course for that. I will vote against.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U257	Mr Uldis Augulis has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U258	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, The National Safety Commission is its Committee. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) , where... each fraction - according to the Rules of Procedure - can be nominated by one member... those consisting of fractions. So... Both Edgars Tavars, Maris Kučinskis and Raimonds Bergmanis are no longer in the Group of the Greens/Farmers Union from today on, so - in line with the current legislation - these changes need to be made. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U259	Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft decision on withdrawal of Member Maris Kučinskis from the National Security Commission on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft decision shall be placed on the agenda of the sitting. Members Uldis Augulis, Armands Krauze, Jānis Dūklavs, Jānis Vucāns, Janīna Jalinska and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft decision on the election of the Member Jānis Dūklavs to the National Security Commission. Do Members have objections? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Please call us! We will vote for the draft decision on the election of Mr Janis Dūklavs to the National Security Commission to be on the agenda for the sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 67, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft decision is on the agenda of the sitting. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I (Laughter) Members Ainars Latkovskis, Krišjānis Feldmans, Jānis Dombrava, Arvils Aseradens and Juris Pūce ask for item 40 of the agenda – the draft law “Amendments to the law on maternity and sickness insurance” (No. 1403/Lp13) (Interim) at second reading, to be excluded from the agenda of the Saeima sitting. ( Milestones.) Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Are there any objections? ( Interfaces: “No! ”) “Of course!” ) Is there no? ( The box “Yes! ”) ‘No!’, ) Please call us! Let us vote in favour of it (Interface.) To ensure that from the agenda of the sitting... to include the question on agenda item 40 of the draft law “Amendments to the law on maternity and sickness insurance” (No. 1403/Lp13)! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 53, for - 19, for - 4. Decision adopted. ( Milestones.) Consequently, the draft law is excluded from the agenda of the sitting. Draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law”, second reading, draft law declared urgent. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Liva Kreituse.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U260	Hello! The Legal Commission reviewed and prepared for second reading the urgent draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” (No. 1449/Lp13). The draft law was designed to reorganize the court of Riga city Pārdaugava and Riga city Latgale suburb by adding it to the court of Riga city Vidzeme suburb and changing the name of the reorganized court to “Riga city court”. One proposal was received for the second reading, a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It is a editorial proposal that clarifies and redrafts the amended provision in order to make it easier to understand and understand. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U261	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U262	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U263	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendment to Criminal Procedure Law”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Liva Kreituse.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U264	This is therefore also considered by the Legal Commission and recognised as an urgent draft law “Amendment to the Criminal Procedure Law” (No. 1450/Lp13). As I have already mentioned, this is related to the previously examined draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law”. It also technically clarifies the name of the court in relation to reorganisation of Riga city courts. No proposals have been received by the Commission. I therefore call on the Commission to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U265	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on the second, final reading of the Criminal Procedure Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Status of Creative Persons and Professional Creative Organisations”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Ritvars Jansons.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U266	Dear colleagues, We examine the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Status of Creative Persons and Professional Creative Organisations”. 1. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Janson. This came about after a debate in the Commission. In particular, it was debated in the Commission that members of creative organisations need professional criteria, while other activities, such as members' compliance with the objectives of the association, are regulated by the Articles of Association. Therefore, the words ‘which correspond to the objectives of the association’ are excluded. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U267	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U268	2. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Janson. Corrections shall be made to the wording defining the decision on the status of the creative person. The Commission supported the proposal by Mr Janson, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U269	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U270	3. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Janson. It encourages to exclude the fourth paragraph of Section 13 of the draft law included in Article 4 because the Commission had a debate that such a definition of the fact that a professional creative organisation provides information about its members, if requested by an association of professional creative organisations, a state or municipal institution within the framework of creative persons’ support programmes, is very bureaucratic. That is why this proposal - on exclusion - was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U271	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U272	4. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Janson. Expresses the fourth paragraph of Article 5 (as regards the types of aid) of the draft law in a new version. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U273	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U274	5. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Janson. The wording of paragraph 3 of paragraph 1 of Article 15 shall be clarified and reworded in the wording of paragraph 1.1 of this Article so that the financial resources of the programme of measures may also be used to make compulsory contributions of the State social insurance for a self-employed creative person whose object of the state social insurance compulsory contributions is less than the minimum monthly wages fixed by the Cabinet of Ministers, but not longer than the period during which the self-employed person has been granted the status of a creative person. This proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U275	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U276	6. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Janson. Editative clarification. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U277	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U278	7. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Janson. According to Article 16, paragraph 1.1 of the Act contained in Article 7, the words ‘for the grant of an aid grant’ shall be excluded. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U279	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U280	8 / 8 - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Janson. This is the wording of Article 16 of the law contained in Article 7 of the draft law. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U281	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U282	And nine. - the proposal of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, which complements the draft law with the provision of the entry into force of the law: “the law shall enter into force on the day following its publication.” The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U283	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U284	Consequently, all proposals have been considered. On behalf of the Commission, I call on the draft law to be supported at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U285	Please call me! We will vote for the second, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Status of Creative Persons and Professional Creative Organisations”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Patients’ Rights”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Ilmārs Dūritis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U286	Hello, very honourable Chairman of the Saeima! Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. High honourable Members! The Commission of Social and Labour Affairs worked on amendments to the Law on the Rights of Patients. For the second reading, there was a debate in the Commission and a proposal was made by the Social and Labour Commission. This proposal provides for the exclusion of Article 2 of the draft law. I'll tell you a little bit about what that means. In particular, the Commission had a debate about whether the first-reading version of the decisions of the Health Inspectorate's Medical Risk Fund to appeal to the Health Inspectorate's management... whether it does not, however, restrict patients' rights in any way, because the current wording of the law... The current law provides that decisions of the Medical Risk Fund may be appealed against by the Ministry of Health. However, following discussions and discussions at the commission’s meeting, and also on the basis of expert guidance, the Commission decided not to accept this change at first reading and to exclude Article 2 of the draft law at first reading. In the Commission, this proposal from the Social and Labour Commission was supported. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U287	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U288	No further proposals have been received. I call on Members to support the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Patients' Rights at second, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U289	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Patients’ Rights” at second, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U290	Colleagues! I would remind you that the amendments to the Law “On Taxes and Fees”, which provide for the possibility of obtaining a re-extension of the tax due, are aimed at companies that have suffered during the period of sub-propaganda but have not yet recovered or returned to pre-propaganda level. Four proposals have been received by the Commission. 1. - a proposal by the Commission which precisely sets out the conditions favourable to the taxpayer in a situation where the tax administration revokes the decision to extend the period. In particular, it is specified that the taxpayer pays late payment only for the unpaid part of the principal debt. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U291	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U292	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U293	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U294	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. That too is editorial. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U295	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U296	4. - the proposal of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, which provides for the entry into force of the law on 1 August. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U297	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U298	We have examined all the proposals. The Commission supported the draft law and asked the Saeima to support it at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U299	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” in the second, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendment to law on the application of educational measures to children”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns. ( Pause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U300	Hello, colleagues! I'm sorry to be late, small technical cubes. In the legal commission we worked and saw amendments to the law “On the application of educational measures to children”. This bill goes together... in the package with the next items on the agenda, both the draft law on Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law and the draft law on Amendments to the Criminal Law. The aim of the draft law is to suspend the application of a protective measure of a nature - insertion in a social correction educational institution - until 31 December 2024. The suspension of the application of this educational measure is necessary in order to ensure the reform of social correction education institutions as an institute, by reviewing and improving the regulatory framework for the introduction of an educational measure - social correction education institution. When we examined this draft law, we received 13 proposals in total. We looked at them, we worked with them. 1. - Andrey Judin's proposal. It is planned to supplement the draft law with an educative means of coercion, namely the observation of probation. The Commission had a wide-ranging debate on this and, in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Science, the State Probation Service and the Ministry of Justice, we have the opportunity to support this proposal. The Commission is therefore in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U301	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U302	2. - the tied... Also the proposal from Member Andrejs Judine. This was also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U303	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U304	3. - The legal commission's proposal. Also designed to function 1. - Andrejs Judin's proposal, namely, the challenge as an educational tool for monitoring... monitoring of probation. ( The ring of noise.) The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U305	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U306	4. - also a proposal from the Legal Commission. The name of the same objective was developed. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U307	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U308	5. - a proposal for a legal technique from the Legal Bureau. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U309	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U310	6. - Member Edgar Tatar's proposal. Provision is made for a transitional period during which children are excluded from the application of this specific social correction measure by 2024. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) 31 December The proposal by Edgars Tatars states that it does not apply until 31 July 2023. So, in fact, in this period - in the faster period - there is a need to prepare a means of applying another, alternative. We discussed in the Commission that this deadline is not long enough to develop all the necessary regulation. The Commission was therefore not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U311	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U312	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The implementation of a protective measure - insertion into a social correction education institution - shall be terminated from 1 July of this year and shall not apply until 31 December 2024. In fact, until the end of 2024. What is my proposal about? The proposal provides for this deadline to be reduced to 31 March 2023. If we are (interim call.) ... 31 July. Thank you for the point. What are we talking about? We could take a decision to close the relevant educational institution, with "we" thinking the Ministry of Education and Science and the Coalition, so that even the leaders of this institution learn it from the media that it is immediately closed, but this alternative is being developed over a very long period of time. We understand that, right now, as early as 1 July, these children actually end up in the green meadow and they will be aware that the means of education that the court has or has set - placing in a specialised educational establishment - has come to an end. In fact, they fall into the hands of the municipality. The municipality, given that it has not worked with children of such a heavy nature... with such problems... who were placed in a specialised educational establishment by decision of the court are not objectively resolved. We have also talked about this with the Union of Municipalities, and the Union of Municipalities makes clear. Many have already said, yes, that is the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child, especially Article 58, which is, in fact, constantly being called on - which is the competence of the municipality. But I remind you that these children are in a very, very difficult situation. They are not affected by the simple means with which municipalities have worked so far. Therefore, there was this alternative: "Scarfs". If we are talking about this phase - from 1 July to 31 December this year - we do not have alternatives in fact. If the State Probation Service is not granted funding, then objectively... understand that these alternatives will not be two and a half years and these children will be involved with other children, young people. You plant in front of these young people - in a difficult situation - other children... Is that so? Not all are children, many are already adults. How can this affect other children? The consequences can be - chained - very large, colleagues, so I am calling for: we are not wearing it in the long term! We also reduce this task to the Cabinet of Ministers. The same applies to the task of the Cabinet of Ministers to draw up regulations - we do not wear them for such a long time! We have said in the past that we agree that there are problems in the Naujos. It was necessary to renew, invest, strengthen, and make a modern institution for these specialised children with a court decision and with a police message, but instead we have actually confused this system at the moment. And these rules... both the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers and the relevant amendments to the law are made for so long that we know that municipalities will have serious problems with it. And if there is no clear funding for the municipality (which we are talking about in the forthcoming proposals), then we can count on the consequences in our municipalities. I therefore call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U313	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U314	On behalf of the Commission, I can add that there were in fact two main arguments in the Commission why this proposal was not supported. One was that, already in previous proposals, we supported the replacement of this social correction measure for children by probationary supervision during the transitional period. So it will be dealt with by the State Probation Service. The second was that, in fact, in such a time limit, as indicated - by 31 July next year - it is not possible to develop all the necessary regulation of the system purely physically, so that in practice it would not be achieved... In the Commission, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U315	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - Member Tatar's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 27, for - 39, for - 7. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U316	7. - a proposal of a technical nature of the legal office. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U317	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U318	8 / 8 - also a proposal of a technical nature of the Legal Office. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U319	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U320	9. - Member Edgar Tatar's proposal. The Cabinet shall also set a time limit by which the Cabinet of Ministers shall draw up and submit to the Saeima the necessary amendments to the law regarding the application and execution of the inciting type of means - insertion into the institution of social correction. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U321	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U322	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The legal commission's proposal. Setting the deadline for the supervision of probation for these children as a means of social correction, i.e. 1 January 2023. It is necessary to adapt the laws and procedures... system, how... and provide funding to enable the State Probation Service to work with these children until this social correction institution is in place. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U323	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U324	11. - The legal commission's proposal. It also sets a deadline for the development of the appropriate regulation to allow the monitoring of the probation. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U325	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U326	12. - Member Edgar Tatar's proposal. Provision is made for funding for municipalities that during this period - until 1 January of next year - municipalities will ensure the social adjustment of these children. They'll be about 10 children. The proposal of Member Edgars Tatars provides that the municipality is granted funding of EUR 2900 per child. The Commission was not supported because it is not known exactly... We, the Commission, were aware of the formula used to calculate this funding, but its formula, as it is calculated, was not correct, and it is not clear what the procedure would be for this funding to be transferred. The Commission was therefore not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U327	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U328	Colleagues! I have already mentioned in the Commission that this proposal has also been prepared by the Latvian Municipal Union in consultation with specialists, including education specialists and social specialists. We have also had people from cities in the Commission, people responsible for social issues, and as one point, if, in fact, from 1 July this year, these special children with severe educational problems get into municipalities... If municipalities do not co-finance to provide separate facilities for attracting very specific specialists to this child, then there may be very serious problems. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) . Thus, we can count quite firmly on the suffering of the whole class of children who do not have this kind of problem. The level of education will fall, at least in those classes where these children are in a difficult condition. We will see that this can happen. The specific amount has been calculated by dividing the number of children by the average number of birds. Therefore, if we stick to the principle of "money follower" to the relevant municipality where this minor young person is present, a specific grant is also directed. We know that these children need very high-quality teachers, special educators, professionals who work with them. These are psychologists, drug addicts. Sometimes even a lot of psychologists...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U329	Sorry and wait. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) Colleagues, please, quiet room!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U330	Often even many psychologists refuse to work with such children. And this all costs money. Moreover, let us take into account that the observation of this topic is planned only with 1 January 2023, which was also talked about from this platform a moment ago. But I remind you again - the child reaches the municipality as early as July 1. I therefore call for support for this proposal, which provides for... This amount is not big overall, but we can talk about this money following... has no budgetary implications... this money follows this child to the particular municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U331	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U332	On behalf of the Commission, I can also mention one more argument why it has not been supported, that is to say, the municipalities already have a function, unlike the probation service, where it will be a new function, so it is necessary to develop all the arrangements, documents and funding. According to the regulations, municipalities already have to deal with this. Also, given that this period is very short - only until the end of the year - the Commission did not support the proposal by Edgars Tadars.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U333	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. - Member Tatar's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 34, against - 42, refraining from - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U334	13. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Provision is made for the law to enter into force. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U335	Members are in favour. ( Pause.) Sub-words: “All!” “It’s all!” ; “Let’s vote!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U336	Oh, supported by the Legal Commission, yes... draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U337	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the law on the application of educational measures to children” in the second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 65, it's not 10, it's not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendment to Criminal Procedure Law”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U338	Consequently, the related draft law - Amendment to the Criminal Procedure Law (No. 1496/ Lp13). We examined four proposals at the Legal Commission. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U339	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U340	2. - Member Edgar Tatar's proposal. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U341	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U342	3. - Legal...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U343	I am sorry, on proposal 2 - Members do not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U344	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U345	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U346	And 4. - also a proposal from the Legal Office. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U347	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U348	In the Legal Commission, the draft law was supported. I call on my colleagues to support them.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U349	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on the second, final reading of the Criminal Procedure Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 67, against - 5, refrains - not. The law is passed. Draft law on the amendment to the Criminal Law, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U350	This draft law is also related to the previous (two) approved draft laws - the draft law “Amendment to the Criminal Law” (No. 1497/Lp13). We examined three proposals at the Legal Commission. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U351	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U352	2. - Member Edgar Tatar's proposal. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U353	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U354	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U355	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U356	In the Legal Commission, the draft law was generally supported. I call on my colleagues to support them.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U357	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the draft law on criminal law in second, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Road Traffic Law’, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Sandis Riekstins.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U358	Hello, colleagues! Today, in the second final reading, we will see the draft law "Amendments to the Road Traffic Law" (No. 1518/Lp13). No proposals were submitted for the second reading. The Commission has supported the draft law. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U359	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final reading of the draft law on road traffic law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on National Security”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Raimonds Bergmanis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U360	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption has discussed the draft law “Amendment to the Law on National Security” (No. 1521/Lp13) at second reading. I would remind you that the draft law was intended and passed in one package with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the National Armed Forces” and was related to the implementation of special operations, which the Minister of Defence evaluates and coordinates with the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and then the National Security Council is accountable for the success or failure of the operation. It also involved active cyber defence operations. The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption has also created other - additional - proposals for this draft law. 1. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Associated with preventing the threatening or potentially threatening influence of national security in a major commercial company in relation to the military invasion of a sovereign state by the Russian Federation and its ally, the Republic of Belarus, and the aggressive rhetoric of their officials against other countries, denying the Russian Federation, the Republic of Belarus, their citizens or legal entities registered in the Russian Federation or the Republic of Belarus the possibility to acquire a significant influence on national security in a major capital company or to become a member of a personal society of importance to national security, as well as to become a true beneficiary of national security in an important commercial company. This proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U361	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U362	2. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. A transitional regulation shall be introduced providing that, with effect from the date of entry into force of the norms, citizens of the Russian Federation, of the Republic of Belarus and legal persons established in the Russian Federation or in the Republic of Belarus shall not be entitled to exercise the voting rights attaching to their shares or shares in a capital company which is important for national security, nor shall they be entitled to be a member of a personal company when representing a personal company and to keep records until such time as the restrictions laid down in the norms are removed. This proposal is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U363	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U364	3. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. It states that a person through whom a person belonging to Russia or Belarus benefits from a capital company that is important for national security is not entitled to exercise voting rights in a company that is important for national security. This proposal is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U365	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U366	4. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. It is envisaged to prevent a person or several persons from acquiring, or becoming a member of, a significant participation or decisive influence on national security in a major commercial company, without respecting restrictions imposed on Russia or a person belonging to Belarus. This proposal is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U367	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U368	5. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Transitional provisions for persons belonging to Russia or the Republic of Belarus shall be laid down for certain restrictions. This is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U369	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U370	And six. - a proposal from the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption, which provides for the entry into force as soon as possible of the restrictions imposed on Russia or the persons belonging to Belarus. This is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U371	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U372	All the proposals have therefore been examined. I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U373	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on National Security Act, second, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -64, against -12, refrains - not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the National Armed Forces”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Raimonds Bergmanis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U374	In the same session, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption also examined draft law “Amendments to the Law on the National Armed Forces”. As I said earlier, this relates both to these specific operations and to the active cyber protection in our country. The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption has created one proposal. This is due to the entry into force of the law: ‘The law shall enter into force on the day following its publication’. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U375	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U376	All the proposals have therefore been examined. I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U377	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the National Armed Forces” at second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -64, against -12, refrains - not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the law on civilian support of Ukraine” (No. 1527/Lp13), second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U378	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Hello, dear colleagues! The draft law “Amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Support Law” is under examination as a matter of urgency (No. 1527 Lp13). As I said, second reading. And this is an urgent bill. In the Commission, we received two proposals. Both proposals are from Member Artusa Nemiņa. Proposal No 1. The Commission was unanimously supported. The essence of the proposal is that commercial media, taking content from public media, whether Latvian Radio or Latvian Television, must have a reference, logo or oral reference to the relevant public media content maker. In particular, the logo must be mandatory. The proposal is supported. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U379	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U380	Thank you. 2. - The proposal from the Member's neighbor. It places something like a frame for the whole of this bill - that this is a temporary measure. That is, 30 June 2023... This could then be like a border time when this frame of the law could no longer work. Consequently, in order for that content to be transferred without a time limit, that time limit is also imposed here. It was unanimously supported by the Commission. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U381	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U382	Thank you. So both proposals in the Commission... No, the Saeima sitting is considered and supported. Consequently, all the proposals submitted to the draft law have been examined. I call for support to be given to the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U383	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on amendments to the Ukrainian civilian support law (No. 1527/Lp13) in the second, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the law on civilian support of Ukraine” (No. 1529/Lp13), second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U384	Good afternoon! The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption has examined current amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Support Law prior to the second reading. The amendments concern new support measures and improvements to existing measures. 16 proposals have been received. 1. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport Linkaita. It is envisaged to improve the regulation of free parking cards for disabled people. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U385	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U386	2. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It is expected that Ukrainian civilians will have the right to carry their luggage free of charge in public transport. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U387	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U388	3. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Clarifying the regulation, identifying groups of persons for whom a longer stay allowance will be available. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U389	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U390	4. - the health minister's proposal. It is encouraged to allow the exemption of capital companies from restrictions by donating halls to Ukraine. The Commission has partially supported and included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U391	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U392	The Commission improved the above provision and drafted a proposal 5. It is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U393	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U394	6. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare, Zalīte-Gross. The conditions for granting the aid shall be specified. Partly supported, included 7. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U395	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U396	7. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It supplements the norm on the above. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U397	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U398	8 / 8 - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare, Zalīte-Gross. This specifies the conditions under which primary aid is to be granted. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U399	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U400	9. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare, Zalīte-Gross. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U401	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U402	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare, Zalīte-Gross. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U403	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U404	11. - Member Budrik's proposal. It extends the period for orphan courts and municipal social service workers to perform overtime and extra work in support of Ukrainian civilians... and these costs will also be covered by the public budget. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U405	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U406	12. - Member Budrik's proposal. Associated with the above. And it is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U407	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U408	13. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. The right to apply for a state scholarship shall be established and other educational conditions shall be specified. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U409	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U410	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. It excludes a restrictive norm for the organisation of the psychologist's work. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U411	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U412	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport Linkaita. According to the Office of the SRSG on Children and Armed Conflict, he was responsible for recruitment and use of children under the control of the ‘Donetsk People's Republic’. Partly supported by the Commission, includes 16. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U413	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U414	16. - Commission proposal. The Commission supported 15. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport and supplemented by a regulation providing that Ukrainian civilians shall not be subject to the conditions laid down in Section 22, first paragraph, point 1 of the Road Traffic Act as regards the acquisition of driving rights. In the Commission, the 16th proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U415	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U416	I call for support to be given to the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U417	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on amendments to the Ukrainian civilian support law (No. 1529/Lp13) in the second, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Wexley Act”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U418	We are working on the draft law “Amendments to the Wexel Act”. Three proposals were received to the third reading committee. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U419	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U420	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. That too is editorial. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U421	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U422	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. That too is editorial. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U423	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U424	The Commission supported the adoption of draft laws at third reading. I also call on the Saeima to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U425	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Vekselis Law” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments’, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhena‐Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U426	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues! The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments (No. 1274 Lp13). No proposals were received for the third reading. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U427	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, final reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name Inese Voika to report the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U428	Colleagues! All Johns are still registered. Not registered: Aldis Blumbergs, Gundars Dauge, Raivis Dzintars, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Rihards Kols, Maris Kučinskis, Ralfs Nemiro, Ramona Petraviča, Edmunds Teirumnieks, Jānis Vucāns and Atis Zakaistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U429	Thank you. Interruption until 3.30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U430	Dear colleagues, We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - draft law on amendments to the law on detention procedures, third reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U431	Dear colleagues, Ten proposals were received to the third reading of the draft law. 1. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U432	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U433	2. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U434	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U435	3. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U436	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U437	4. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U438	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U439	5. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U440	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U441	6. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U442	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U443	7. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U444	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U445	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U446	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U447	9. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U448	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U449	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U450	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U451	Consequently, all proposals in this draft law have been examined. I call for support for the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U452	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the law on detention procedures” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 68, against and refrains - not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendment to the Ministry of the Interior System Authorities and Prison Administration Officers with Special Service Steps in the Service Implementation Law”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Maris Možvillo.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U453	Hello, fellow Members, again! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Ministry of the Interior System Authorities and Prison Administration Officers with Special Degrees of Service in the Law on Service Implementation” (No. 1346/Lp13), third reading. One proposal has been received for the third reading. The proposer is the Minister for the Interior, Mr Eklona, and the proposal provides for some changes in Article 44 concerning the wearing of uniforms and everything relating to different authorisations for the use of this uniform in different situations. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U454	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U455	Consequently, all proposals have been considered in the draft law. I ask colleagues to support the draft law as a whole.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U456	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Ministry of the Interior System Authorities and Prison Administration Officers with Special Degrees of Service in the Law on Service Progress” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 70, it's against and abstains. The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U457	I would like to say thank you to colleagues that the opposition proposal has gone through the whole cycle and the law has been passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U458	Thank you. Draft law “On disposal of part of real estate at Rūsiņa iela 1, Riga – construction of the European Standard Width 1435 mm railway line in the Rail Baltica corridor through Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania” – third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U459	In the legal commission we looked at the draft law “On disposal of part of real estate in Rūsiņa Street 1, Riga – for the implementation of the project “Construction of the European Standard Width 1435 mm railway line in “Rail Baltica” corridor through Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania”” (No. 938/Lp13). The draft law examined 13 proposals relating to the merger of several draft laws. Specifically in the draft law... the existing draft law was merged with draft law No. 1133 Lp13 and No 1221/Lp13. All these draft laws were designed to dispose of real estate for the purposes of building the Rail Baltica corridor. The first proposal, which had been examined by the Legal Commission, was the draft law No. 1123/Lp13 inclusion and consideration. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U460	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U461	Proposal 2 was draft law No. 1221/Lp13 inclusion. This is necessary to be able to combine all these draft laws. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U462	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U463	3. - also in connection with this merger of all draft laws. Partially supported, included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U464	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U465	4. - just as necessary for merging draft laws. Partly supported and included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U466	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U467	5. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U468	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U469	6 and... Now... I'll see you right now. A second, find in the table (Interfaces: “Can’t be faster?” )... I... One moment, yes, I can't find it at the speed of the table. ( Milestones.) Well, hopefully not. Well, we're gonna have less beer.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U470	6. has been partly supported and included 7. - the Commission's proposal. Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U471	Yeah, I found it. 6 and...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U472	Thank you, we already agreed. 7.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U473	... included 7. - the Commission's proposal. 7. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U474	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U475	8 / 8 - partially supported, incorporated 9. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U476	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U477	9. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U478	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U479	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - partially supported, incorporated 11. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U480	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U481	And 11. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U482	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U483	12. - partially supported, included in 13. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U484	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U485	13. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U486	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U487	Within the Legal Commission, the draft law has been approved. I also call on my colleagues to support the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U488	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “On disposal of part of real estate in Rūsiņa Street 1, Riga – construction of the European Standard Width 1435 mm railway line in “Rail Baltica” corridor through Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The law is passed. Draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on Budget and Financial Management’ (No. 1278 Lp13), third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U489	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues! The Budget and Finance (tax) Commission dealt with the third reading of the draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on Budgetary and Financial Management’ (No. 1278 Lp13). One proposal was received. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Provision is made for the entry into force of the law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U490	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U491	I therefore call for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U492	Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on Budgetary and Financial Management’ (No. 1278 Lp13) for the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 72, for - no, for - 1. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law”, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Edgars Tavars. ( Interface: “Edgar! ” Thank you. (See the box below.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U493	So, I'm very, very sorry, colleagues! No, I just asked Carl Shadurski not to get up in the podium anymore. So, colleagues, “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law”, third reading. Received by the Commission (interim). ... Yeah, yeah, it's okay. ( Milestones.) Nine proposals have been received by the Commission. 1. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Provides for the addition of an article to the draft law... In Article 240... in connection with divorce proceedings. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U494	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U495	2. - also a proposal from the Minister of Justice. Amendments to Article 400 Commitments permitting enforcement without a dispute. Reword an article. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U496	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U497	3. - also the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Janis Bordens. Adding bill... related to the second paragraph of Article 539... in a new version. Technical proposal: Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U498	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U499	4. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Article 540 shall be supplemented by paragraph 16.1... in a new version. Technically. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U500	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U501	5. - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ilze Indrickson. Associated with the enforcement equipment issued by the competition authority. Technically. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U502	Members are in favour. ( Pause.) Depp. E. Tavars differentiates pages.) Page 74.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U503	Yeah, yeah. 6. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It is envisaged to replace the amendment to Article 48, which provides for an amendment to the second paragraph of Article 656 by the word and the number ‘Article 18’ with the words and the numbers ‘Articles 18 or 19’. Technically. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U504	Members are in favour. Page 86.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U505	7. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Technical. Partly supported, included 8. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U506	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U507	8 / 8 - The legal commission's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U508	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U509	And nine. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Associated with the date of entry into force of the law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U510	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U511	All the proposals have therefore been examined. Please support the draft law at third, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U512	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Labour Law”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Normunds Gunna.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U513	Hello, colleagues! The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs has prepared draft law “Amendments to the Labour Law” at third reading. Together we have received six proposals. 1. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Provision shall be made for another person, other than the mother of the child, to be entitled to 10 working days of leave in order to take part in parental care at the request of the mother. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U514	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U515	2. - Proposal by Evita Zalīte-Gross, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare. Make this provision clearer. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U516	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U517	3. - The proposal from Member Rein Znotiņš. It is foreseen that the minimum monthly wage shall not be less than EUR 620 as from 1 January 2023. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U518	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U519	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Why such a proposal? First of all, I must point out to you (and probably you have also heard): at European Union level, there is currently a debate on setting a common minimum wage for each Member State... is proportionate to the average gross income. In the case of Latvia, the minimum wage should be between 600 and 640 euros. It is not yet in place, but most likely within a year or two we will get there, and it will also be adopted at European level. The second important point. Experts point out that increasing the minimum wage will make it possible to combat the share of the shadow economy. Here, speaking to various experts, both the Ministry of Finance and Mrs Znotiņa have just spoken to others... we see that the share of the shadow economy in Latvia is increasing. It is much higher than in other Baltic countries. Experts point out that, by increasing the minimum wage, this shadow economy should also shrink. The third important point. There are large differences in wages and unemployment in the regions. We know that in Riga, for example, unemployment is below the level of natural unemployment, while official data in Latgale show that unemployment is still around 14 percent. But it is often also due to the lack of transparency, the wages of the envelopes and for various other reasons. I have also heard from many of you, colleagues, that it is in the regions that we need to develop entrepreneurship, to develop the environment, so that people do not live there and go to larger cities or move to other countries. Then, raising a minimum wage, including regional differences, could help. It is worth noting what minimum wages are set in our neighbourhood, where there is both a lower share of the shadow economy and, to say, better economic performance. Here we can see that in Lithuania it is already 730 euros and in Estonia it is 654 euros, while in Latvia it is 500 euros, and also as a percentage of the average wage in Latvia has the lowest percentage of the minimum wage, or about 39 percent. These are all arguments why, colleagues, it is essential to think about raising minimum wages, and the Ministry of Welfare is also doing so and is actively dealing with the debate and talking to the social partners... Therefore, congratulations to the Employers' Confederation of Latvia, as well as to the Free Trade Union of Latvia. I very much hope that both the proposals submitted by the Saeima and the progress made by the Ministry of Welfare to travel... raise the minimum wage in Latvia... So, as in my proposal, EUR 620... I hope that this will soon lead to good results. That's what... Since this proposal has not been supported by the Commission, I will withdraw it this time. I call on the representatives of the government and the social partners to take into account all the arguments I have mentioned at the moment and, accordingly, to change and raise the minimum wage in Latvia by the end of this parliamentary term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U520	Thank you. The proposal has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U521	4. - Proposal by Evita Zalīte-Gross, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare. Partially supported, included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U522	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U523	5. - Commission proposal. A legally binding proposal in the insurance context. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U524	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U525	6. - Proposal by Evita Zalīte-Gross, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare. Provision is made for the entry into force of the law on 1 August this year. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U526	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U527	All the proposals have been examined. Colleagues, I call for support for the draft "Amendments to Labour Law" in the third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U528	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law "Amendments to Labour Law" in the third, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The law is passed. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Commercial Law’, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U529	That's great. Let's work! Third reading - Amendments to the Commercial Law (No. 1272 Lp13). The draft law is, it could be said, almost perfectly prepared, because only seven proposals were received in this very long draft law. I'm sorry... 1. - a proposal from Member Ilze Indrickson. Actually, I'll remind you of this... The commercial law is... These amendments form an integral part of a major reform which will make the activities of public limited liability companies more open in the future. Yes, but Mrs Indicice's proposal was unfortunately not supported. ( The utterances are: ‘ Let’s vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U530	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the proposal tabled by the Member, Indricksones! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 36, against - 38, abstaining. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U531	Yeah, sure. So two. - a proposal from the committee responsible. That is something that has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U532	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U533	Also 3. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U534	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U535	The same is true for 4. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U536	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U537	And 5. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U538	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U539	6. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U540	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U541	And seven. - The proposal of a Member of the Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, Mr. Janis Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U542	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U543	All the proposals have therefore been examined. I call for support to be given to this draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U544	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law "Amendments to the Commercial Law" in the third, final, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Information Systems of the Territories”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U545	Well, here's such a new bill. Only at first reading, we examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Information System of Sworn Territories” (No. 1491/Lp13). The aim of the draft law is to open the data of the information system of the affected territories and to specify the data providers of the information systems, to which these data are to be provided free of charge, and to distinguish the issues that are established in the law of the information system of the territories and regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers issued on the basis of the law. I call for urgent support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U546	Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Information Systems of Territories”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U547	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 16 July this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U548	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 16 July this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Civil Protection and Disaster Management”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Raimonds Bergmanis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U549	In its meeting of 7 June this year, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption examined draft law “Amendments to the Law on Civil Protection and Disaster Management” at second reading. No proposals were submitted. Let me just remind you that these amendments concern the development of a comprehensive civil protection plan in every municipality... including the development of a plan in case of military invasion or war. I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U550	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on civil protection and disaster management! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U551	The deadline for submitting proposals is 27 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U552	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 27 June this year. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on Registration of Civil Status Acts”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U553	Dear Members, Honourable Members! The Legal Commission has examined the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Registration of Civil Status Acts”. The second reading received one proposal from a Member, Mr Kirštein, at the Legal Commission. This has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U554	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U555	On behalf of the Legal Commission, please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U556	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Registration of Civil Status Acts” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U557	On behalf of the Legal Commission, please set a deadline of five days, i.e. 21 June.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U558	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 21 June this year. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on Election Aggregation”, second reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission, Member Uldis Budriķis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U559	Hello! President of the Saeima. Minister and honourable colleagues! See the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Election Aggregation”. A total of five proposals have been received. The substance of the amendments is pre-election of the campaign language, namely the determination of the state language of pre-election of the campaign. 1. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. It provides for the prohibition of pre-election campaign funding from state budget funds allocated to a political organisation on the day of elections and seven days before the day of elections. The proposal has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U560	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U561	2. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. By the very nature of the draft law, it is a proposal which is about pre-election of the campaign language. Member Viktors Valainis has put forward the following proposal: “The election campaign, the placement of which is included in the expenditure subject to pre-election limits laid down by law,” - and is supplemented here - and which is financed from the state budget, must be carried out only in the state language.” I would like to mention that in the Commission on the basis of this proposal... Four alternative options were developed in the working group, but Members agreed to support Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal at the commission meeting. The Commission is therefore in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U562	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U563	Dear colleagues! What, then, is this proposal made by Viktors Valainis? He believes that it is also necessary to promote Russian, and the Commission has supported such a proposal for reasons beyond my grasp. I believe, however, that Latvia's citizens are taking part in the elections. I do not know anything about elections where non-citizens of Latvia take part, at least I do not know about such elections in Latvia. I accept that if you are a Latvian citizen, you have an orientation (at least in the sense of ballot papers) in Latvian, you are able to read words, surnames in Latvian or read the program in Latvian. It is therefore difficult for me to imagine why the political parties of the Republic of Latvia (I am not talking about European political parties and so on) should be promoted in Russian. So this proposal by Viktor Valaiņš seems interesting to me, to put it mildly. In this respect, I call for this interesting proposal to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U564	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U565	Colleagues! It may be that the proposal is interesting, but I think it is absolutely in place, given the situation in which the commission arrived when examining this draft law. I am well aware of the aim of the proposers. And here is not even a story about the proposal; here is the very draft law. The draft law provides, in essence, that the campaign of pre-election takes place only – only in Latvian. What I have proposed with my proposal, and what is supported by the Commission, is a certain compromise between the applicants and the political parties, let us call it because, regardless of that political party... I think a number of political parties here in the Saeima... there are certain places where the campaign takes place not only in Latvian but also in other languages. It's not unusual today. Colleagues, I am making one thing very clear with this proposal: the funding of the state budget allocated to a political party... national budget funding - then we also decide on this. So we can use the funding of the state budget only for advertising in Latvian - not to the right or to the left. I offer that the funding of the state budget, which is allocated to political parties, is used for advertising only in Latvian - state - language. To what political parties are donated by donors or some kind of supporters or people themselves, third parties go something... deals with political campaign - we do not impose restrictions on it. That is the meaning and nature of this proposal. And that was also a compromise. I call for the opinions that are attached to this draft law - from the Legal Office, from the various institutions - to understand why this compromise proposal is actually needed. These proposals, whatever they may wish and whatever they may wish, will not apply to 14. Saeima for the elections. It won't be... We are currently talking about 15. Saeima elections, perhaps for the next municipal elections, but not for the 14th. Saeima for the elections. I therefore call for support. This is a compromise. If the parties have supporters and if the parties consider them to be money... We spend it, let's speak openly, in the Russian-speaking media, please do it - waste it. State money - only in state language.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U566	The name of the Member, John Isal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U567	The author of the proposal, Viktors Valainis, did not answer the question: by whom does he wish Latvian citizens to communicate with voters not in the state language? I hope everyone listened carefully today to the speech by the President of Latvia Egils Levite, and it was understandable from it that all Latvian citizens, not to mention citizens, should understand Latvian. And there can't be any compromises here. We cannot compromise on national issues. The Satversme provides that Latvian is the only state language, and citizens who elect the legislator, the Saeima, and other representatives must understand the state language. And parties must communicate with these voters in national language. This is self-evident in any democratic, national state. That is why I personally cannot understand this compromise offer in a national country. I call for such a proposal to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U568	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U569	Given that I did not listen carefully this morning to Egil Levit's speech, I have to note that the pre-election campaign to address voters, I do not know that Chinese or Spanish is simply stupid. In Latvia, each party will know what language to speak to voters, and it is, however, the Latvian language. The whole parliamentary time on this subject is absolutely stupid for one simple reason - because it is exactly the same subject as the issue of stones, the subject of flags, the subject of nothing. It's a subject of nothing. We should be debating today how we will deliver fuel in the autumn, not how we will address our constituents. Personally, as a politician, I know very clearly how I will address my constituents, and I think that everyone else in this hall is also very clear about how they will speak to their voters, but to use the parliamentary tribunal to just try to build some kind of political capital with nothing that does not help Latvian society in any way is absolutely irresponsible. It is simply irresponsible to the Latvian people. It is irresponsible to the teachers who protested here today, to the Saeima, and who said that the coalition members passed by with their heads and could not look in the eyes of the teachers, Mr Iesalnieks. That is the question. I call for this to be closed quickly at all and for the question of how we will limit the export of chips, how we will get cheaper petrol (Interdependum.) how we will achieve higher salaries for teachers... on the autumn, as the cost of life increases, and let's finish spreading all those flags and... stones. And the malter this evening on the straight to the Victory Park - let it begin to ruin the monument! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U570	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so? The debate has already been closed.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U571	As I said earlier, the majority of Members in the Commission tend to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U572	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 40, for - 40, for - 40, for - 1. (Laughter) Thank you very much. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U573	3. - Mr Valaina's proposal. It provides for a ban on election day as well as seven days before election day campaigning in public places. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U574	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U575	4. - Mr Valaina's proposal. On a similar subject. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U576	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U577	And 5. - a proposal from the committee responsible. A reference to the entry into force of this Article shall be excluded. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U578	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U579	I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U580	Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Elections in Aggregation”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U581	The deadline for the submission of proposals was 15 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U582	Thank you. Please the microphone member, Janis Dombravs.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U583	Given that this draft law is not the first day of consideration, there is a call for a deadline of 1 July. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U584	Please a microphone member, Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U585	October 30th.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U586	October 30th. Okay. Dear colleagues, We have deadlines for proposals: 1 July this year, 15 September this year, 30 October this year. So let's vote in favour. Please call me! We will vote on the deadline for submitting proposals to the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Election Aggregation” - 30 October this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 23, against - 52, abstaining. Consequently, this deadline is not adopted. We will vote in favour of the deadline for tabling proposals on 15 September this year. Please call me! We will vote on the deadline for submitting proposals to the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Election Aggregation” - on 15 September this year! ( The transcripts are: ‘ Against ’!) “Yes!” ) Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 39, it's against - 39, it's not. We must vote again (Minimum: 'no'!) ) (a.k.a. Please call me! We will vote on the deadline for submitting proposals to the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Election Aggregation” - on 15 September this year! Please vote mode! Please the result! About - 39 (Applause) , against - 42, abstaining - 1. That is why this voting regime of the proposals is also being put to the vote. Please get the result! On - 39, against - 42, refraining from - 1. Consequently, this deadline for the submission of proposals is also rejected. The deadline for the submission of proposals - 1 July this year - remains in force. Draft law “Amendments to the Education Act”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Member Linda Medne.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U587	Colleagues! At its meeting of 10 June, the Commission for Education, Culture and Science examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education”. The aim of the draft law is to implement a gradual transition to state language training at the level of general education pre-school and primary education in order to promote successful implementation of improved teaching content and approach in all educational institutions of Latvia and to ensure the acquisition of minority language and cultural history in accordance with the Satversme and international obligations of the Republic of Latvia, as well as to improve the regulation of the use of foreign languages in professional secondary education. The current language approach in minority education programmes has not fully ensured quality learning of the state language at all stages of education. In order to ensure the most effective participation in public life and to promote further education for minority pupils, it is equally important to learn the state language, as the state must provide the best way and opportunity for everyone to integrate into society and participate effectively in cultural, social and economic life, otherwise insufficient knowledge of the state language can limit integration into society and hinder the development of a successful professional career. The transition to education in Latvian applies to 17 per cent of teachers in pre-school minority education and primary education, as well as to 24 per cent of students who learn the pre-school curriculum of minorities and primary education of minorities. The Commission for Education, Culture and Science supported the progress of the draft law at first reading. I ask you to support this too.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U588	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name of Minister of Education and Science Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U589	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. High honourable Members! First of all, I would like to thank both the government and our partners and, of course, the members of the Saeima's Committee on Education, Culture and Science for their smooth progress in starting the examination of this draft law. I very much hope that this is still 13. - The Saeima will finally be able to put an end to this 30-year work done in order to ensure that all students in Latvia, so that all children in Latvia are not sorted according to their language (Intersorbent.) ... by their language family, so that every child in Latvia has the opportunity to fully integrate into Latvian society, so to communicate in the state language, consume the same media, understand what these media, the Latvian media, say, compete in the labour market as if they were Latvian citizens. I also mentioned earlier in the Saeima language debate that we, as a country, have not so far boldly said that we in Latvia have to educate every student in our only beautiful Latvian language, thus also providing a unified society, because only society that is not divided by the names of schools, by what proportion - the state language or other, a foreign language... used in educational institutions... Just by saying honestly that every child in Latvia has the same right to a completely equal education, including quality education, we can get a society that thinks the same, that understands each other, where people speak the same language with each other. And I am very happy that we are taking these first steps. As the rapporteur for the bill said... in brief about what it is intended to do. Thus, starting from 1 September 2023, in all pre-schools in grades 1, 4 and 7 basic education programmes will take place in 100 percent Latvian. From 1 September 2024 - also in classes 2, 5 and 8. From 1 September 2025, every child in Latvia will learn the state language. At the level of basic education, minorities... So a child with a different family language as part of an educational program... A minority language and cultural history will be available as part of an interest education programme. The possibilities for obtaining such a programme will be financed through targeted grants to municipalities from the state and local authorities. The draft law also establishes a significant improvement in regulation of the state language skills and use of teachers of the educational institution in accordance with the necessary scope for the performance of professional and professional duties specified in regulatory enactments. Since 1999, Latvia has a requirement to know the state language at the highest level, but these clarifications will provide for regulation to prevent teachers who do not understand and are therefore unable to use the state language at level C 1, their presence in an educational institution and their participation in the implementation of educational programmes. We understand that successful implementation of this reform and this final step also requires a series of support measures. We therefore intend to introduce support measures for educators from this school year, 1 September 2022. In the form of fixed-term support from 2022 to 2026, combined training courses for pre-school teachers will be available for the development of Latvian language skills, as well as professional competence development activities for teachers, including further education, experience exchange activities, methodologies on specific issues of pedagogy and methodology, support for teachers to work in a linguisticly diverse environment, as well as advice to teachers of the learning community as support for work in a diverse language environment. Support measures for pupils in primary education are also foreseen, with a particular focus on students in grades 1-3 to mitigate the negative effects of an uneven linguistic environment, providing psychologists support in primary education process, thus reducing the emotional tensions that may arise especially in younger pupils in such an uneven environment. In the same way, additional support will also be available for minority learners in specific education programmes. In the same way, additional financial resources from the state budget are provided for the purchase of teaching resources for the implementation of the minority language and cultural history interest programme, as well as the replacement of teaching resources for the learning process in the Latvian language and also for the education of interests. After the adoption of this draft law, until 31 December this year, we have the task in the Cabinet of Ministers to amend both the regulations on pre-school education guidelines and to amend the models of basic education standards and primary education programmes. Colleagues, I really call and hope that you will support this historic draft law, which is important for Latvia as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U590	Thank the Minister. (Applause) Name to Member Karl Shadursky.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U591	Dear President, Dear Minister, Dear colleagues, For decades we have been talking about the integration of society. Created and funded various projects and programmes, funds and concepts, spent money, developed a layer of parasites that manage this money (inter-sacred). and pretends to do a useful job, squeezing in a hectic blow and pretending to move forward. At the same time, we have pretended not to notice that at the occupation monument in Riga, whose pitiful existence has finally been put to a point today, the victors of the heroic Soviet army and the rapers... Instead of the veterans who have been named from there, from year to year aggressive young people, the target group of our integration policy, who have truly integrated themselves perfectly - in hatred against Latvia, gather more and more during the celebrations of the repeated occupation of Latvia. Liana Langa recently said honestly: “It’s enough to pretend, integration policy has failed.” I would say a little different: that from the very beginning it was misdesigned or, as it says in its ancient story, we have searched for keys where they are more convenient than where they could actually be. Or say, for the sake of my dear peace, let us not harm the Russians. Ignoring the obvious basic truth that the basic condition of an integrated society is that our children grow up together, play together, study together, celebrate joint festivals, and have the same values in family and school... The legislator of family values cannot be directly influenced, but the school can, and those brought to school will only enter the family when today’s students raise their children. However, the road to a single education system has been unforgivable. Today we will finally adopt the draft law on First Reading Amendments to the Education Act. In September, the Saeima will have to consider two remaining readings, and after three years language reform in education will be fully completed. We have been moving very slowly, without a special system, to this day with a great break at each stage of the reform. First reforms we can talk about... more than 20 years ago. First of all - state universities, then - vocational education, then in 2004 - secondary bipolar. Finally in 2017 - secondary school in Latvian, primary school in Bulgarian and all higher education in Latvian. In these last two reforms, our team has had the opportunity to participate. To be honest, it was not an easy job. The endless debate in the Saeima, never talking about the reasons, but always looking for excuses, politically motivated myths and something that is not yet. Every amendment to the Law on Education, the Law on General Education and the Law on Higher Education, which strengthened the positions of the state language, was challenged in the Constitutional Court. The real Latvian patriots from “Sangar” or the Russian Union of Latvia, as they used to beekeepers, took care of it each time. All these years, the Saeima was governed by the principle of competition for or against Latvian, for or against Latvia. And it's clear that while there's a race, there's no work, while people don't learn the language, maybe they won't need the language. So now, only three years later, our education system will be uniform in the meaning of the law. Only then will the process of real integration or formation of a political nation begin in Latvia, including the leadership of education policy will have to overcome inertia that Latvians go to schools and Russians – in others. A large number of regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers will have to be revised in order to transfer minority languages and cultures to the education section of interest in order to establish criteria of state language skills for teachers. How long will it take? It's hard to answer right now. In Ukraine, the Russian occupations have made the unification of society at a record pace, showing what is actually the so-called Russian world. Latvia, thank God, has reliable and strong allies. We heard a flight over and over again (Interior call). , and we are protected from direct Russian aggression. But how big is Russia's fifth column in Latvia, waiting for the liberators and, in case of a military invasion, the lists of Latvians to be shot and deported? Give God that we would never know that in practice. We will correct the law quickly, but to a positive change in the attitude of the majority of Latvia's Russians towards Latvia we will have to wait much longer - while today's students will become parents and their children will grow, but perhaps there is also time to change the mood of teachers. Moreover, it should not be imagined that political decisions will also be easy in the future. SASKY, who understands that in a united society, they no longer have a political niche where to live, will fight against Latvian education, as much as they can, will use all means to hinder the political process. Dear colleagues, Let us support the amendments to the law and start developing a real agenda for the integration of society that inspires values that respect human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and human rights, including the rights of minorities. Thank you, Minister, for your work. Thank you to the Commission for Education, Culture and Science for what has been done so far, and late in the future. We will vote in favour of this draft law at first reading. Thank you. ( Internoint.) Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U592	Thank you. Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U593	Dear Saeima! Indeed, this road has been very long and long. As an inheritance from the Soviet Union, we remained divided, expensive, ineffective education system, where Russian schools were used as cells for building the Russian world and... Well, in this reclamation for the procremal forces. After the restoration of independence, the Latvian National Independence Movement was the one that was also very active about the need to create a unified education system. On this wave of euphoria awakening, many municipalities were able to make decisive decisions about the creation of a unified education in the state language. By the way, many of these municipalities have become successful, since segregation, differences did not develop, children started training together, training in the state language, and there have been no problems for all years of independence. But like I would say on the issue of monuments, there were enough municipalities that were too cowardly, indecisionless to make decisive decisions already in the early 1990s. At the beginning of the two thousand years there was such a very popular minister of education, Kārlis Šadurskis, who earned special (in the footsteps) “popularity” to friends of the “Congregation” who wrote even various videos about him, because he was the one who, as a minister, was the first time in bringing together education in the language of the country. And thank him for that. In 2011, 120 433 Latvian citizens signed up to the amendments initiated by the National Union, which provided a uniform education in the state language. This would have been a sufficient signal for politicians to understand that this problem needs to be resolved. Unfortunately, the majority of politicians in 2011 were still alive this Soviet man, who lived in many heads, and I remember even the publications, as was the case with the pagans, being called radicals, those people who signed a uniform education in the state language in 2011. In 2018... Now it happened that again the Minister of Education was Kārlis Šadurskis, and I would say, also because of this, I think we managed to agree in the coalition that a further shift to education in the state language was taking place. It was also a very important step forward. At the end of 2018, when drawing up the new government, it was also highlighted as one of the essential principles to which this coalition should work: a further shift to public language education, including pre-school education. At the moment, I can say thank you to the existing Minister for Education and Science, Mrs Muižniece, that these draft laws have reached the Saeima and we can finally make the national right decision, which should actually have been made in the early 1990s, if only this Soviet person died sooner in the minds of many of our fellow citizens. Let us put an end to this expensive, inefficient, fragmented education system, and let us support these amendments! Not just to support, but... I call them in the final reading... admitted very quickly. Then we can take the next step, which will be no less important and which needs to be done in the coming years, i.e. freeing the education system from the pro-masscave elements, which have contributed to the fact that many young people still adhere not to the state of Latvia, but to the state of Latvia, but to their loyalty to Russia. We shall vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U594	Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U595	Dear Members, Honourable Members! This draft law is an attempt to solve the final problem of Russian education, or a solution to its problem, as has been understood by all restored independent Latvian governments without exception. As early as 1996, the Saeima had considered the draft law on the transition to study only in Latvian. Since then, this process has been implemented as a series of non-systemic attempts for the complete elimination of education in minority languages, first and foremost in Russian, as quickly as the government could afford at every political moment. Russia's invasion of Ukraine is used as a particularly favorable moment. Minister Muižniece openly states that her proposal is important right now, in the cynical hope that the Russian-speaking community in Latvia can be demoralized and unable to demonstrate effective resistance to the final elimination of Russian-language in schools. As I said in the debate before the draft law was passed on to the Commission, the transition to Latvian-language training has started without coordination with the parents of children, non-governmental organisations of minorities, thus forcing and leaving no choice. As a result of this transition towards the training of children from minorities in the Latvian language, the State ignores its international obligations, namely Article 15 of the General Convention for the Protection of National Minorities of the Council of Europe, which states that the Member States of the Council of Europe undertake to create the necessary conditions for the effective participation of persons belonging to national minorities in cultural, social and economic life as well as in public life, especially when minorities themselves are concerned. The necessary conditions for persons belonging to national minorities to be able to participate effectively in decision-making on the language of instruction of children belonging to a minority were not created. In the section “The Results of Public Participation” it is stated that the Consultative Council of the Ministry of Education and Science on Minorities Education was held, where amendments to the Education Law were discussed in order to promote the successful implementation of the new educational content and learning approach in Latvian in all educational programmes. But I will also note that the Consultative Council on minority education is not a board of permanent representatives of society, but a board of experts. How did that sitting take place? The Minister also answered the question about the justification for the transition to Latvian: do you not see war? Other questions were written by the Minister in a notebook, promised to check and quickly left. The decision-making board was not adopted, the minutes of the meeting were not forwarded to the members of the board. The draft legal act was also submitted for public discussion in the Cabinet of Ministers' portal. A few thousand of the objections and proposals submitted were taken into account by ministries' objections and technical proposals on the organisation of public participation. However, non-governmental organisations have received a standard explanation of why they were rejected on their objections and proposals on the content of the draft law. None of their applicants were addressed. I conclude that public participation was organised formally, without leaving civil society the opportunity to influence the content of the bill. On the ideological basis of the transition to training only in the state language, annotation of the draft law raises the dismantling of the school system based on the principle of segregation. In order to achieve political objectives, the word ‘segregation’ is not used correctly. In sociology, segregation shall be defined as a policy of forced separation of people according to their race, nationality, religion or any other characteristic. Meanwhile, everyone in Latvia can learn in any school without any prior separation. According to the report, the Soviets in Latvia were established: “... a system of schools based on segregation was established; migrant children were mainly formed with a separate parallel network of “Russian-speaking” schools, while the existing minority schools, including Russian national schools, were eliminated.” ( End quoted) In any case, the elimination of minority schools was unfair to anyone who had been deprived of the opportunity to teach their children in the family language and was detrimental to society as a whole. But if the authors of the bill consider that its authority is unacceptable, why does it encourage the cessation of training in minority languages and not the creation and strengthening of minority schools? According to the report: “In the field of education, russification was implemented by paying particular attention to the learning of Russian in schools with Latvian language, as well as by creating schools where only Russian was the language of instruction....” ( End quoted) It should be noted here that only Latvian was the teaching language in Latvian schools. Secondly. Latvian citizens in Latvian-language schools with Russian-language language were mandatory - just like the subject “Russian-language” in Latvian schools. Moreover, teaching in the mother tongue, teaching the second language as a separate subject, was not an innovation of the Soviet school, but the democratic order of Latvia from the pre-war. This tradition, which survived Ulmanis' time and the Nazi occupation, was questioned only in 1995 - during the renewed independence. And another quote from annotation: “The resignation of individuals belonging to different identities in each’s identity space undermines the possibility of democratic discourse and joint action within a single society...”. ( End quoted) It's the same thing... Like... Mr Shadursky told us about this. So the aim of the termination of teaching in Russian is to eliminate the threat and prevent everyone from receding in their identity space - that is, the salt of the bill. In its Helsinki decisions 30 years ago, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) established a post of High Commissioner for National Minorities as an early-stage means of conflict prevention. Such a mandate was given mainly as a response to the situation in the former Yugoslavia, as there were concerns that it could reoccur elsewhere in Europe... As he looked in the mirror. The High Commissioner's focus was primarily on situations where persons belonging to national or ethnic groups form a numerical majority in one country and a numerical minority in the other, thus affecting the interests of both countries and creating potential tensions or conflicts in relations between countries. The OSCE High Commissioner has been able to identify certain common challenges and topics. Minorities' education, in particular minority language education, was highlighted as a priority issue among them. The OSCE recognised the person's right to maintain his identity indisputable and against what the authors of the draft law under consideration stressed, there was no threat to his identity, but stated that education in minority language was a matter of priority for maintaining and developing the identity of persons belonging to a minority. This led to OSCE recommendations on minority rights in education. And more specifically, given that the first years of education are crucial for the development of the child, training at pre-school and kindergarten level should take place in the child's basic language. Wherever possible, countries should create the conditions for parents to make such choices. In a basic school, it would be best to present the curriculum in minority languages. The language of minorities should be taught as an independent subject. The official language should also be taught as an independent subject. At the end of this period, some practical or not too theoretical subjects should be taught in the national language. Where possible, countries should create the conditions for parents to make such choices. In secondary education, a large proportion of subjects should be taught in minority languages. The language of minorities should be taught as an independent subject. The national language should also be taught as an independent subject, but the number of subjects taught in the national language should be gradually increased over this period, and the more gradual this process is, the better for children. In education, maintaining minority languages at basic and secondary level depends to a large extent on the ability to attract teachers trained in all disciplines in the basic language. Therefore, in line with the obligation to ensure adequate access to education in minority languages, countries should ensure adequate training and access to such training. Under international law, persons belonging to minorities, like others, have the right to set up and run private educational establishments in accordance with national law. Such institutions may include schools where training takes place in minority languages. On the basis of the right of persons belonging to minorities to set up and manage their educational establishments, States should not impede the exercise of those rights by adopting conditions of an excessively burdensome legal and administrative nature governing the establishment and management of such institutions. Private educational establishments (in minority languages) have the right to call for funds from public budgets, international sources or the private sector without any restrictions or discrimination. The draft law under consideration is challengingly ignoring the OSCE recommendations on minority rights in education. After minority education ran... Latvia has received opinions and recommendations from some international organisations and institutions, including the UN Human Rights Committee; from the Advisory Committee of the Council of Europe, which monitors the implementation by Member States of the Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities; from the UN Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination, which operates in accordance with the UN International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination. All recommendations apply to public schools and all conclude that the norms of the law ensuring minority education... the reduction in the use of languages in minority learning is not in line with the Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities and the UN Convention on Anti-Discrimination. These norms should therefore be repealed in Latvia. The draft law under consideration obviously reduces opportunities for learning in minority languages even more strongly, and threatens the cultural identity of families belonging to minorities. It is also clearly arrogant of persons belonging to minorities. This goes against the values of the European Union. I call for the 'no' vote on this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U596	Thank you. Mr. Cilevič, would you have 10 minutes to break? Would you have had enough time for the debate to break? The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U597	Dear colleagues, ( The ring of noise.) Maybe you listen to me, don't you? You're not interested, I understand. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) But, colleagues, it would perhaps be interesting for you to know that both the draft law and the rapporteurs have deceived you; indeed, these amendments run counter to international standards. It was last night, Mr Asheraden, who now shows me his beautiful back, who took part in the discussion “Latvian Radio 4” in Russian and distributed false news. You lied publicly, Mr. Asheraden. You said that minority education does not exist anywhere in Europe. This is disinformation. There is a general principle that the more a minority is, the more widely the language of this minority is used in the education system. This is very easy to ascertain by reading both the basic documents and the national reports on their implementation. But you're not interested, of course I understand. More than that. This draft law goes far beyond the legislation of countries such as France and Greece, which do not even recognise minorities. They ban private schools... For example, there are private schools in Paris, where education is implemented in French and Russian and which receive subsidies from both local governments and from the state. Your bill bans this at all. More than that. There are a number of specific recommendations of international organisations, which are addressed directly to Latvia. There are both General Conventions... the conclusions of the consultative committee, the recommendations of several UN committees, the letter from the OSCE High Commissioner, and the opinions of the Venice Commission. Did either of you ever read it? Do you know about this? In fact, it is hidden or completely distorted by the government, as was the opinion of the Venice Commission last year. And you are still saying that you are loyal to European standards! Well, obviously Europeans like this are... And more generally, hypocrisy is amazing, because for all these institutions, the government sends beautiful reports in which black to white claims that education in eight minority languages is being implemented in Latvia. You can look at the Ministry's website, where it is still being claimed. Well, it's about duality, colleagues! The second is even more important. You are not interested in European standards, but you are also not interested in practical life. You simply do not know what is happening in schools that implement minority education programmes. Today, now, you really think, many of you think that all education is going on in Russian and almost in Russian curricula. You live in a world of stereotypes and myths. You are talking about a single education system. At present, the education system is unified, because standards are uniform, examinations are the same and all in the state language. That everyone will learn together... How does this happen? Well, think with your head! What's going to change? Because the same students will study in the same schools. How will you mix, and how will you mix those children? Because legislation just doesn't allow it. If already several children who live in Russian-speaking families go to Latvian schools, some - successful, some - not, but the administration of Latvian schools is not always happy about this and still tries to limit the number of such children at school. But the children will be the same: the same children will study at Bolderaja school or at the school in Kongarag... Where will Latvian children come from? What are you talking stupidly about learning together now?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Teachers. Well, today we have seen the situation with teachers. Of course, you are not interested in this either, but, believe me, in schools that implement minority education programmes, the problem is two to three times more than in Latvian schools. And with this bill, you're going to bring together a number of teachers from these schools. Who's gonna work there? The methodology. Indeed, in recent years, very effective methodologies have been developed in a number of schools - the methodology of linguistic education. The ministerial support was very limited. The Ministry, as always under control, demanded, punished and so forth, but these methodologies gained a very high international evaluation. Now all these techniques have to be thrown away. Again last night... Again, Mr Asheraden, who still shows me his beautiful back, could not answer any of the specific questions he was asked. ‘ We will think about how to tackle these problems." You're not going to think anything, and you're not going to think anything. And what will happen in practice? We now see that, with very few exceptions, schools, after all reforms, are not capable of providing quality education... and especially for children whose mother tongue is not a national language. And especially it became clear during the pandemic. So most parents have no other options... And the quality of children's education will get worse, and marginalisation will continue to increase. But in some groups... Parents who are concerned about the quality of their children's education will be more active in finding alternatives: home education, rehearsals. The same teachers you'll leave the schools will teach families about the same children's parental money, and you won't be able to control it at all. Once again, the state takes its full responsibility. Just as with medicine and a number of other areas: you want to be treated - paid! And now the same will happen with secondary education and primary education: you want to learn, you want a child to get a good education, you pay! And that's what happens. No research on the quality of real education is just not available. And I again... I read an annotation, and I see lies. Data from the National Language Centre state that all young people speak Latvian today. No data available. The knowledge of the state language is not enough to successfully compete in the labour market to join universities. These are pure stereotypes and prejudices. You don't have any figures to prove it. So what is the real cause, basis and purpose of these amendments? We have now heard this from the Minister: let everyone think the same. And we also heard from some of our colleagues in previous sittings, which is the basis: hatred and fear. Fear that he will cut his throat... Some paranoid thoughts... and so on. But, my fellow Members, I will be quite clear: it is no fear of the Russians and no hatred of the Russians alone. Just now, there's a situation where Russia's aggression in Ukraine... it can be used as a pretext for achieving its objectives. But basically it is hatred and fear of Muslims, gays and so on - it is hatred of other things. They are fear of diversity. And you who call yourself European, even liberal, have capitalized on that fearsome... In the face of the hateful President of the Isler. Now we see what's real cardinal in your coalition ( well, I won't mention the color here, there may be different versions). And it's no wonder that you're not achieving anything and you're not going to succeed. You're going to be allowed to put those iris flags in here, but that's all. You're not even the innocent... The ratification of the Istanbul Convention cannot be guaranteed, because your coalitions are headed by completely other people - those who hate and those who fear. I understand very well Mr. Shadursky, you really... It is your personal crusade against minority education. ( Milestones.) Well, and now you have to thank Putin - let's be honest - that at last you have the opportunity to implement your ideas, which you failed 18 years ago. I have to say that you have strong allies, Mr Shadursky. ( The box “Yes! ”) ) So, colleagues, you seem to want to achieve loyalty, integration, but, in your sense, the only sign of loyalty is the desire to assimilate. This is the 19th century concept, an absolutely archaic concept. You want to destroy the amphibian environment in Latvia, but in fact you will destroy the alternative to amphibian. ( Milestones.) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U598	Please call me! Please register the Members! ( The ring of noise.) Dear colleagues, attention to the announcement! On 10 June our colleague Reinis Znotiņš celebrated the round anniversary, and we congratulate him. (Applause) Thank you. Name For Inese Voika to read the registration results.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U599	Colleagues! Not registered: Aldis Blumbergs, Gundars Dauge, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, Raivis Dzintars, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Rihards Kols, Māris Kučinskis, Eva Mārtuža... Eva Mārtuzza is, Linda Medne... Also, Ralph Nemiro, Ramona Petraviča, Juris Pūce, Edmunds Teirumnieks, Jānis Urbanovičs, Viktors Valainis... Yes, Jānis Vucans, Atis Zakaistovs and Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis... I do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U600	Interruption until 5.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U601	Dear colleagues, Let's keep working after the break. On the agenda - draft law on amendments to the Education Law at first reading. Let us continue the debate. Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U602	Dear President, Dear colleagues, I support amendments to the Education Act, but what amendments? Not those you wrote. In my opinion, the amendments must be different, because 400 schools have been abolished in Latvia in 23 years. I have a question, Latvian colleagues: do you think Latvian children from the districts... from the counties will now be able to go to Riga to those former Russian schools and get an education? Not at all! I don't think it's on my fingers... the situation in the countryside will not improve and you simply dissect your audience by saying that they will need and benefit from this law. I would like to remind you that the Russian school in Latvia was invented not in Soviet times. The first Russian school in Riga was founded in 1789 at the time of the Great French Revolution. The school is located at the intersection between Turgineva and Gogola Street. Leave... A period of 233 years, but our Education, Culture and Science Commission spent only 30 minutes to complete education in Russian in Latvia. Unbelievable! To make it clear to those who do not focus on this subject, I will repeat that this is not about schools of the Russian Federation in the Republic of Latvia, but about those schools of Latvia in minority languages that are accredited and that have no less loyal citizens than Members of the National Alliance who do not listen, among other things, a very important subject, Mr. Iesalnieks. Without any rational reason, children of Latvia, most of whom are Latvian citizens, must now assume some collective responsibility for Moscow's actions, for Putin's activities and for international crimes in Ukraine. It was during the initial discussion of the draft law that a colleague, Kirštein, mentioned these motives, and today a colleague, Shadurski, and others. However, so far the system has worked perfectly normal. Children attended primary school. They can learn 50 percent of their teaching content in their mother tongue. Such a flexible (not clear to hear.) The approach gradually increased the proportion of Latvian. It allowed them to learn school subjects and language that they did not speak. In my opinion, it is not wise for young children to simply push them into a new language environment, when many children have difficulty even with their mother tongue before their teens. I see only the substance of political pre-elections in this draft law. Not surprisingly, the annotation says so much about occupation, deportation, russification and other sad events and abuses that ended more than 30 years ago. We currently live in Latvia, which is a country of the European Union, a country of NATO, we are not threatened with russification, we are threatened with poverty. I remember when Mr Shadursky was a minister for education and science, we had a lot to do with him, from 2003, 2004 to 2004. He said at that time that we would buy a computer for every teacher. Where are the computers, Mr. Shadursky? ( Internouncing call.) Currently - at the moment - the liquidation of schools, the degradation of schools - first in Latvian regions. I think that when we discuss amendments to the Education Law, we should talk more about the salaries of educators, about what happened to the Saeima today. It is also possible to discuss the artificial dawn around the admission of pupils in high school, with the absolute opacity of this process and additional hostxes, which tire out the students who are already tired of learning at a distance. Another topic should have been - the general drop in the level of education, because Latvia takes a rather shy place in international ratings and Olympics. Unfortunately, the new Minister for Education and Science, Mrs Muižniece, even though he sometimes had great expectations, did not justify our expectations, let us say, and there were no challenges at the heights. We can also remember that not so sad everything is in Latvian education. There were also good ministers for us, such as Robert Kiel, who, unfortunately, left us, were professionals, and I hope that there will be - when we decimate this government, let us decipher this coalition - and there will be a normal government of the people in Latvia and a coalition of the people. Please reject this bill in the current version.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U603	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U604	Dear colleagues! Some comments on the proposed legislation and on the debate that is taking place today. In principle, the issue that we are looking at today is extremely important, but it would be fair and fair to start, not to end, on issues of this kind. That's the point one. The genetic Russian actress, Faina Ranevska, often asked: “Which to whom shall we make friends?” I don't think there's anything that connects people with anything or anything like war. Here it is very easy to find allies, and in this case it is very easy to debate everything. But this question is not about it. And this is not about education. I think each of us asks himself today: what kind of society do I want to live in? And it seems to me that this is a fundamental issue which makes it useful to debate these very, I would say, sensitive things, such as education, culture, language. Today, it was assumed that a unified Latvian language is the basis for building a united society. If that were the case, I am sorry, there would not be as much disagreement in coalition parties today as it appears for all these four years and will also appear after the elections. Two Latvians - three parties. It was invented, not in Soviet times; it was an expression that appeared in the 1930s. That's what it is. It affects not only Latvians, it affects all who live in Latvia, who participate in Latvia's political life. And the testimony to this is also our picture, as the Saeima looks like today. Therefore, the question is not about the language of education; the question is what is the purpose of all this. A united society is a myth. The first assumptions that it can be created appeared already in the Middle Ages, and I think... Perhaps someone has read the book “The City of the Sun. ” A very interesting book. It sets out the objectives that Mr Shadurski spoke about today. But it is not and will not be, because society consists of different people, each of them is a personality, each of them has its own interests, its own values. A single society can only be formed on the basis of common values. And its values might most likely have been taken from the Ten Commandments. That's how it's formed. When we want to force someone to do only so and not otherwise, we forget that people are very different. That is why the project proposed today, to be honest, is not tended and is not aimed at achieving their goal of trying to unite people to some sort of one thing... uniform values. Language is a great value, a very important value, but, believe me, for every nation, it also has its own value for every language. So if you don't want to accept it, you have to respect it. This should be borne in mind at all times when you try to figure out or offer recipes that you consider to be good. This attempt today - it is neither in the right place nor in the right time - and cannot also achieve the objectives that the authors of this draft law might have intended to achieve. Therefore, I think maybe we should relax in the summer and only then return to the version that could really fit into the experience that was in the first Republic of Latvia in the pre-war period, which was in the history of Latvia's territory, where not only Russia, but also Sweden, Poland and some other countries and peoples went through, starting with the Livonian Order. Consider, too, how to deal better with such matters. The proposed solution model is not acceptable. Thank you. ( A few people go round.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U605	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U606	Dear Latvian society! For a long time, I tried to give myself an answer on how it would be better to educate my children. My children... At least one is at the age of starting schooling and starting schooling, and the other gradually joins. And I look - both from my life and from the surrounding life - at how education in the 21st century changes and develops and is essential for education in the 21st century. In today's circumstances, the fact that there is a catastrophicly low level of education in Latvia should be taken as a starting point. I'm sorry. Latvia lags significantly behind in its educational competition, including from its closest Estonian neighbours, Scandinavians. The tests of our children, young people, show a very sad picture. And then it's today's decision, which is just one of the elements why I'm on the table. I think... It is my subjective belief, and I will base it on a number of examples... I think if we ban something, we steal our children. By denying our children’s language, we are taking them seriously. And I can argue this with examples, not from my life, but from people who are more prosperous than me. Also from our state power... Leaders’ family lives, where children learn other languages, learn other languages, and all learning, and the whole learning process takes place in another language, especially for wealthy people. And then a big question arises: why do wealthy parents teach their children not in Latvian but in other languages: English, French, Chinese, German? And the answer is very simple - because wealthy people also have to be prosperous and competitive for their children. Competitiveness - this is an educational issue. We should discuss, not how we ban something, but how we strengthen - how we strengthen the provision of Latvian, how we strengthen the provision of other languages. Not by prohibiting, not by declaring, that our schools, including state-paid schools, will not be able to study in other languages. But why not? Why could a country not pay our children studies in any competitive and competitive language, a language in which international trade takes place, a language in which other forms of international cooperation take place? Why do we want to make our children more competitive? Why does every decision taken by our country in almost every area, from the major repairs of the financial system to the education of children in schools, lead to our country becoming increasingly uncompetitive and uncompetitive? And then we wonder that our people are getting poorer, that our country is becoming emptyer. It must be understood that education changes significantly in the 21st century, also due to different technical externalities. I see it by my family, by my child, and my child is not the only one. I would just set an example. Thank God, I can afford it - I can buy an extra course for a child in my family to teach maths or something else. In today's world, you can do this freely - enter the Internet, communicate with the teacher in English, Russian, German, Swedish and French. This is today's world. Language is an instrument. More recently, I was in a sports class where a young girl, up to 30, from the Netherlands... A girl from the Netherlands teaches German in sports classes at school because she is doing sports. Talking to children in French, talking to parents in English and doing everyday in another other language... Every day life happens. But we want our children to remain uncompetitive so that they remain exclusively with the Latvian language. We must honestly say that Latvian is not an international trade, international business and a similar competitive language. Yeah, that's our mentality. And the primary duty to teach Latvian to their children is to parents at home, reading fairy tales, working with their children, spending time on their holidays, after work. We are used to the fact that we, our society, where in fact a large part of society (and the statistics prove this) do not care for children... a large proportion of society who do not love or care for their children does not pay attention to it. But it is only normal that parents are dealing with their children, that it is parents - not teachers, but parents - who inspire values and language. We are used to having children raised by teachers. No, teachers do not need to raise children, teachers need to teach children something new. Children should be raised at home to the parents of their children. And that's why I formulated for myself... and I also call on the whole society to think about it substantially and deeply. Not for nothing many years ago... I understand that it is unrealistic to realize it in Latvia, because many will cry: then immediately Latvia will die and similar... but many, many years ago in Singapore, the Singaporean leader decided that everyone would learn English to become a competitive country in order to become a rich society. What does Singapore look like today compared to Latvia? Yes, for them all education takes place in English, everyone speaks English freely. We are talking about the fact that we want to approach Scandinavia. In Scandinavia everyone - from a small child almost to an old pensioner - is free and perfect... close to perfect... with rare, rare exceptions, speak a foreign language. And it's not taught at home by self-learning. It is part of the education system. The whole Scandinavian business, which is located in Latvia, takes place in a foreign language and does not take place in Swedish or Danish - takes place in international communication. It must be understood that language is just a tool for learning new knowledge, but mentality and values are those that parents teach at home. It is my duty to teach my children values, not to expect that the teacher will teach my children to speak Latvian. It's my job to teach them Latvian to speak. And I do it. But my task and my main duty is not to steal my children, to give them a future perspective - to be competitive, more competitive than Estonians or Lithuanians... or for Swedish children... German. I call on the general public to look at this issue much more widely, look beyond the flags, at the prisms, at the pastels, at the fact that we can be rich in our societies if we change our attitude and, above all, change our attitude towards the education system. A country can only become rich if it produces wise people, to put it vulgarly. And smart people cannot be created if we rob them intellectually, if we limit them and so on. The very idea of ‘prohibition’ is wrong on the ground. If we would like to highlight the special importance of Latvian language in schools, then instead of prohibiting other languages, we should talk from the bar today about how we will hire the best Latvian language specialists, the best authors of literature works in schools. For example, before the Second World War, the first independent Republic of Latvia was in school... It was imperative that our famous, all - known poets and writers should go and be presented. And it was normal, it was normal! Even today, if you want to get funding from the Culture Capital Fund, it would be only normal that the recipient of funding from the Culture Capital Fund, one of the authors of the book, named here, for example, a writer or writer, would go to school and be a teacher of the Latvian language. It would only be right for our society to benefit from it. Our children would benefit from it. Yeah, Chuck went to school and served, by the way. That's what it was. And that was right, and it was right! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U607	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U608	Colleagues, the public has recently become accustomed to reading only the headings, unfortunately. And there are a number of politicians who make very good use of it. Example: Today there were thousands of educators at the Saeima. They went home without waiting for the results, but we have the title “The Saeima’s leadership meets the educators”. When someone reads this title, it may seem that things can begin differently, because there is, however, a listening to each other and negotiations are under way, but these negotiations have not come to an end. Just like now, colleagues (I've also been watching this 12. In the Saeima, it's a fight for headlines. Just like then, Mr. Shadursky now... only then he was a minister, he went to the bar and told us we were... Pre-election during the debate, before the debate, so... we have ensured this reform and an even faster transition to training in Latvian. Then, of course, he tried to draw this flag out of his hands by the National Association. It was simply a fight between themselves on political titles. None of you who fought four years ago for this transition to take place more quickly have tested the results of this reform, the success that we are seeing at the moment. Partly today, what we heard from the teachers is reflected in what you have done four years ago. The lack of teachers in schools, large classes, load - all this is also the result of School2030 and also the result of this reform. You don't think about children, you don't think about the quality of teaching, you're just fighting for headlines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U609	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U610	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U611	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 58, no, 18, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U612	The deadline for proposals is 1 July.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U613	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 1 July this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on General Education”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Member Linda Medne.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U614	At its meeting on 10 June, the Commission for Education, Culture and Science also examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on General Education”. The aim of the law is to ensure a uniform approach to the transition to training in the state language by aligning it with the draft law on amendments to the Law on Education. The law shall enter into force on the day following its announcement, however, the draft law establishes a transitional period for the implementation of minority education programmes, providing that the exclusion of minority education programmes from the types of educational programmes shall take effect gradually, that is, on 1 September 2023 - for the implementation of general education programmes in classes 1, 4 and 7, on 1 September 2024 - for the implementation of general education programmes in classes 2, 5 and 8 and on 1 September 2025 - for the implementation of general education programmes in classes 3, 6 and 9. The Commission for Education, Culture and Science supported the progress of the draft law at its first reading. Please support the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U615	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the General Education Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U616	Here, too, the deadline for tabling proposals is 1 July. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U617	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 1 July this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” (No. 1463/Lp13), first reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Ritvars Jansons.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U618	Dear colleagues, The Commission for Education, Culture and Science has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” submitted by the members of the National Union for the first reading (No. 1453/Lp13). The draft law provides for the wording of Section 41(1.1) of the Education Law in a new version, stating that “the learning content of minority education programmes from Class 1 to Class 9 shall be provided in the state language in the amount of 100 per cent of the total training hours per year, including foreign languages”. Thus, the amendments provide that Section 41.1.2 of the Law, which determines the proportion of teaching content in the state language for minority programmes, is deleted accordingly. The draft law also supplements the transitional provisions with the rule that the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers are issued for the implementation of the new amendments provided for in Article 41, paragraph 1.1 of the draft law, by drawing up a plan for implementation of the transition to education in the state language to the appropriate extent in all state and municipal-funded educational institutions of primary education. Thus, amendments to the draft law provide for strengthening of norms on the acquisition of content in the state language from 1st to 9th class both in the law and by the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. In the Commission, the draft law was supported. Members decided to direct draft laws to the Saeima for approval, bearing in mind that at second reading it is possible to combine these amendments with the draft law “Amendments to the Education Law” on training in the state language... which Members have just supported at first reading. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U619	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Karl Shadursky.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U620	Dear colleagues, I would like to thank the Members of the National Alliance for this draft law. In our records, this came before the Ministry of Education and Science, which passed through the government's perspective. It could be agreed that this draft law could be combined with our just voted one, only dear colleagues, there is no one to combine, because the draft law promoted by the Cabinet of Ministers, which we supported today, has all been said. For example, we have had a lot of successive amendments to our language regulation in regulatory education documents, and perhaps the structure of these laws has become rather heavy. If we also had secondary education at the level of “minority education programmes”, after we moved to secondary school in the state language, this term “minority education programme” disappeared. Therefore, here, too, in fact, this term should disappear at the primary school stage, because it makes no sense to talk about a minority education programme, which is implemented as a hundred percent in the national language. Moreover, the term ‘minority education programme’ is a certain danger from the point of view that, if it is a minority education programme, it should theoretically differ from the national language of the programme. While working at the Ministry of Education and Science, we have always had the greatest problem of aligning the hours schedule, the weekly hours schedule, the Latvian language programmes and minority programmes, which always provided for more hours to learn minority language. So, given that the physical objects... Well, you can't teach Latvians mathematics, physics, chemistry for more than minority pupils, this number of hours must match. Hence, problems have always arisen there, and perhaps because of this, we have too little study time to learn STEM subjects. The fact that in this draft law, which we have already voted at first reading, minority language and culture are going through in the field of education of interest - it is perhaps one of the greatest benefits, because that is why we can... So it is moved to the second part of the day, after regular hours schedule, and we will be able to teach more children mathematics, physics, chemistry, biology, history, geography, sport and so on. This draft law, which has already been examined, is therefore more complete and complete. How do you say... The National Association has the honour of a first-covering agent in this small distance. And I can remind Isaac Newton when he said that he had been a giant in science. He has been a giant in science, as he said, just because he has steps on the giant shoulders. We're gonna be huge on our shoulders! I call for this draft law not to be directed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U621	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U622	Dear colleagues, We have just supported two draft laws that are actually giving up minority programmes. ( Internouncing call.) But with this draft law, colleagues of the National Alliance actually put us in such a controversial situation, because they propose a completely different concept - the preservation of minority education programmes. If we supported this draft law, we would actually not create a unified education system, but create different conditions for children whose family language is not Latvian. Is that really our goal? I don't think so. In view of what we have already supported, we should continue to give up minority education programmes directly. In that regard, it must be said that the conservative aim is precisely to continue the fragmented education system which, to some extent, would continue with this draft law. I therefore call for this draft law to be rejected - just as requested by the Legal Office at the meeting of the Committee on Education, Culture and Science on 10 June, and as requested by individual Members and the Ministry of Education and Science. That's it. I call for this to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U623	Name to Member Aigar Bikšem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U624	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Yes, we have voted in favour of two draft laws, the task of which is to reduce... or, let us say, make Latvia more united. This draft law, on which we will now vote, is conceptually contrary to that idea of one school in Latvia. This draft law also makes it possible to identify two different groups, and I think that is wrong. That's exactly what... In the Commission, we talked about this, and indeed the Legal Bureau made it clear that continuing to move in parallel with two such conceptually different draft laws is unjustified and unnecessary, and it will only hinder the achievement of the necessary objective. I think that if the objective is important, then also colleagues from the National Alliance will certainly understand and vote, perhaps 'no' to this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U625	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U626	Today, I would like to emphasise the positive fact that we are going to general education in the national language, and that was not so easy at all. As early as the end of February, when we had tabled a bill on the rapid transition to education in the state language, right here in Saeima's meeting room, this initiative was rejected with a lot. Then followed by this draft law, which was submitted by the National Association and which intended to prepare amendments to the Cabinet of Ministers further in order to ensure the transition to education in the state language. Then there are these draft laws - which is very good - prepared by the Ministry of Education and Science, where there is a majority support. The Education, Culture and Science Commission also considered it necessary to move forward with this draft law “Amendments to the Education Law”. The rapporteur responsible for the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Mr Janson, also said that they do not, by their very nature, contradict and there will be an opportunity to produce a joint text for the second reading, bringing these two draft laws together, so we will also support this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U627	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U628	On behalf of the Commission, I can say that the majority of committee members did not find such a radical conceptual difference between draft laws and led to the support of the draft law at first reading at the Saeima. I therefore call on the Commission to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U629	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 17, for - 51, for - 1. Draft law has been rejected. Draft law “Amendments to the Energy Efficiency Act”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy – Member Jānis Vitenbergs.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U630	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined and supported for the first reading the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Energy Efficiency” (No. 1511/Lp13). I would remind you that the draft law was designed to ensure that the requirements of the Energy Efficiency Directive were taken over and to remedy the shortcomings identified in the infringement procedure. And the main principles taken over: energy efficiency - first place... The operational objectives and tasks of the responsible authority - the State Construction Control Office - are specified. Clarifying support through a voluntary agreement. Specific rules for the application of the Energy Efficiency Law in large enterprises and also in large electricity consumers. There are competence requirements for energy efficiency service providers, as well as requirements for information on heating and cooling traders' bills. The Commission is asking for urgent action to be taken on the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U631	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Energy Efficiency". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U632	On behalf of the Commission, please support the first-reading legislative proposal on Amendments to the Energy Efficiency Act.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U633	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Energy Efficiency". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U634	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 27 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U635	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 27 June this year. And consideration of the Saeima sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U636	Second reading - next Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U637	After June 27?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U638	Yeah. So the second reading - in the next Saeima sitting after 27 June.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U639	Okay. So the final reading - after 27 June at the next Saeima sitting. Draft law “Amendments to the Energy Act”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy – Member Jānis Vitenbergs.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U640	The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has started work on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Energy” (No. 1503/Lp13) and supported the draft law for the first reading. The aim of the draft law is to establish principles for the operation of energy communities and active users, as well as to improve the net electricity system, thus promoting public involvement in the production of energy... for self-consumption. The draft law takes over, at the same time, the provisions of European Union legislation to promote the use of renewable energy sources and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The draft law promotes distributed generation capacity and self-consumption of energy from renewable sources, introduces new concepts (including ‘active user’, ‘energy communities’, ‘sharing of electricity’), as well as a framework for the operation of energy communities, and improves the net electricity system. Energy supply is developing and changing every day, changing very rapidly, so such changes to the law are necessary, for example, in order for households living close to each other to have a single solar panel park regulated how to share, use and transfer this energy produced. Moreover, the residents of apartment houses have a great interest in setting up, say, a solar panel park on the roof of the house, and this requires regulation on how their energy can be shared, consumed and also transferred to the network. The Commission is asking for urgent action to be taken on this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U641	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on energy law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U642	On behalf of the Commission, please support the first-reading legislative proposal on Amendments to the Energy Act.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U643	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on energy law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U644	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 7 July this year. And the second reading - in the next Saeima sitting after July 7, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U645	Thank you. So the deadline for the proposals is 7 July this year. Review - the next Saeima sitting after July 7. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy – Member Jānis Vitenbergs.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U646	Thank you. The Commission has supported the first reading of the draft law on the electricity market (No. 1504/Lp13). These amendments to the law take over the requirements of the directive to promote the use of energy from renewable sources. The draft law provides for a substantial improvement and modernisation of the net electricity accounting system. In addition to the current net accounting system, it is proposed to introduce a net settlement system that is based more on the market in a system that accounts not only for the amount of electricity delivered to the grid but also its value according to the specific situation in which the electricity is transferred or taken back. The net system is also intended to be opened up to legal entities; this has not been the case so far and has only been applied to households. Until now, legal entities have also pointed to the need and need to operate in this system. The net settlement system will increase the permitted capacity threshold to 50 kilowatts, which will be particularly suitable for households that have installed heat pumps, as there it is much higher consumption and demand. The threshold was 11.1 kilowatts and such households could not qualify. And it is planned to offer the possibility of so-called remote self-consumption to users of the net settlement system. In other words, you will be able to produce electricity in the countryside and consume it in the city, as such an innovative regulation will be included in these amendments. The following amendments are necessary: The Commission is therefore asking for urgent action to be taken on the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U647	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U648	Thank you. On behalf of the Commission, please support the first-reading bill on Amendments to the Electricity Market Act.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U649	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U650	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 7 July this year. And the second reading - in the next Saeima sitting after July 7, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U651	Thank you. So the deadline for the proposals is 7 July this year. Consideration at the Saeima sitting - after July 7, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U652	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U653	Draft law “Amendments to the Protection Zones Act”, first reading. Member Viesturs Liepkalns on behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U654	Hello, very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Protection Zones” before the first reading (No. 1509/Lp13). In recent years there has been a growing interest in the development of construction projects in defence zone areas around defence facilities in Latvia. This is mainly related to the increase in the actuality of alternative energy production, especially the construction of wind farms in the internal sea waters of the Republic of Latvia and the exclusive economic zone waters and land areas. As within the competence of the Ministry of Defence there is a question of restrictions in the protection zones around state defence objects, there is increasing interest and number of questions received about possibilities to develop wind parks directly in the protection zone areas. Construction of a certain object, wind park, in such cases may create physical obsolescence of air space surveillance or navigation techniques; this, in turn, significantly reduces the efficiency of the system, as well as increases the risk to national defence interests. The proposed amendments to the law would provide an opportunity in cases where natural or legal persons... Implementation of the construction project in the protection zone around the state defence facilities would be conceptually supportive – provided that certain compensatory measures are taken, the costs of which would be borne by the developers of these construction projects. The amendments provide that the amount of the compensation costs would be fixed and that the costs would be reimbursed by mutual written agreement, defining the nature and procedure of the compensation and taking into account the specific nature of each project and its impact on the functioning of the national defence facilities. The compensatory measure in question and the amount of the remuneration therefore depend on an expert assessment of the Ministry of Defence. The Commission has examined this draft law and decided to support it for the first reading. Colleagues, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U655	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Protection Zone Law at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U656	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 1 August of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U657	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 1 August this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Aviation”, first reading. Member Viesturs Liepkalns on behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U658	Colleagues! The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined and prepared for the first reading the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Aviation” (No. 1510/Lp13). The draft law is linked and is directed at the same time as the previous draft law, which has just been examined, “Amendments to the Law on Protection Zones”. This provides for a change in factually analogous nature so that such compensation mechanism is extended to military aerodromes for the safety of operations of potentially hazardous sites around military aerodromes. Consequently, the Commission also supported the examination of these draft laws at first reading. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U659	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Aviation” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U660	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 1 August of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U661	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 1 August this year. Draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on Budget and Financial Management’, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U662	President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues! Following the adoption of the 2022 budget, or at the end of 2021, the Head of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission sent a letter to all Members to make proposals on what the budgetary process should be. This letter was sent with the idea that, by its very nature, this Saeima will no longer have to adopt the budget for the following year, as it will already be done by the next Saeima. And that is why your proposals are very valuable, because you have gone through this whole budget cycle. Having received your letters and summarised them, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission held a meeting on 25 May this year, such as the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, in which we debated the budgetary process. The whole result is that we have agreed what we could change during the budgetary process. That is, we have agreed on two fundamental things. First, that we don't look twice... next year's budget and multiannual budget, actually the same proposal... two times. Secondly, that we look at the multiannual budget, or the multi-annual macroeconomic forecast, in April, and that we then have an economic debate that has not been held in the Saeima so far. So from 2023 we would have such a full debate - the economic debate - in which we, all Members, could participate and listen to what we then have that macro-economic framework. This is what this draft law on budgetary and financial management is actually talking about, which we are now looking at at at first reading. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission supported this draft law. Please support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U663	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U664	Dear colleagues, Such an initiative is welcome, but it will have little meaning, because we remember the reasons why there were so many accusations about the adoption of the previous budget. And that... more about that... it was the opposition who opposed it, but the position did not even try to defend itself's budget. And they were only votes. And if that goes on, then this very meaningful proposal will not make any special sense either. I think the coalition itself should look at itself and defend its adopted budget, and then the accusations to the government will be much smaller. That's been the case in the past. This practice was interrupted by the Saeima. So I had submitted such a letter to the Head of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission and I look forward to thinking about it for the next budgets.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U665	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add, please?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U666	Thank you, my colleague Valaini. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission supported the adoption of the first-reading draft law on amending the Law on Budget and Financial Management. Please do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U667	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on budgetary and financial management! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U668	The deadline for submitting proposals is August 31 this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U669	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 31 August this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U670	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U671	Draft law “On recognition of Diāna Mejas Mathuras as a citizen of Latvia”, first reading. on behalf of the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity - Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U672	Colleagues! The draft law is designed to recognise Diana Meju Mathur as a citizen of Latvia as a citizen of the United States of America. She is married to a U.S. citizen of Latvian origin. Three children were born in marriage. Spouse and children as descendants of Latvian exiles have acquired citizenship of Latvia. The Commission for Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity received an application from Mathura requesting that she be admitted to the citizenship of Latvia. She states in her application that she is actively involved in the activities of American Latvian Diaspora organizations, is the author of the historical book series “Liepa un Legionāris”. The books depict the events of the Second World War, explain the history of Latvia and reflect the struggle of Latvian legioners against the power of occupation. The applicant for citizenship points out that she wants to spend as much time in Latvia as possible to integrate Latvian society and improve Latvian language skills, continue writing historical novels, publish them in Latvian and promote the international recognition of these books. The honorary consul of the Republic of Latvia in California, representatives of the organisations of the Latvian Diaspora in America and public employees expressed their support for her desire to acquire Latvian citizenship. The Commission requested the Office of Citizenship and Migration Affairs to carry out a verification of compliance of the applicant with the provisions of the Citizenship Law and received a reply that Latvian responsible authorities do not have information to which any restrictions referred to in Article 11 of the Citizenship Law would apply. The Authority also indicated that she could not claim Latvian citizenship under naturalization, because she has no established legal status in Latvia. The Commission evaluated the submitted documents, met with the applicant for citizenship and listened to her explanation of the motivation to obtain Latvian citizenship and future ideas. Having assessed all the information received, the Commission supported the recognition of citizenship of Latvia to Mathura with a special law. At the meeting of the Commission, she promised her confidence in the Republic of Latvia. In view of her active involvement and participation in the activities of the American Latvian Diaspora organizations, the Commission proposes to accept Diāna Meju Mathuru as a citizen of the Republic of Latvia, taking into account the circumstances of her individual situation and other considerations. The Commission shall request that draft laws be examined as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U673	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “On the recognition of Diāna Mejas Mathuras as a citizen of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U674	Please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U675	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the bill “On the recognition of Diāna Mejas Mathuras as a citizen of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U676	Given that the draft law was approved unanimously by the Commission as well as by the Saeima, I now ask you to consider the draft law at second, final, reading as well.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U677	Are Members opposed to the final reading of the draft law without re-examination by the committee responsible? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There are no objections. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “On the recognition of Diāna Mejas Mathuras as a Latvian citizen” in the second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent on behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Normunds Gunna.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U678	Colleagues! The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs has prepared for second reading the draft law “Amendments to the law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance””. One proposal was received for the second reading. It was submitted by Liva Kreituse, Member, and provides for the addition of Article 10.4 of the Law, with the seventh paragraph, as follows: ‘The period of payment of the parental allowance shall be extended for the period of maternity leave if the child was born before the date on which the maternity leave was granted.’ The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U679	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Liva Kreitus.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U680	Hello! Some time ago, I learned from another mother that the amount of benefit for prematurely-born parents is generally lower than for parents who were-born within the period prescribed by the doctor, and that at the end of parental leave, up to five unpaid months come to the end of the parental leave - unlike the parents who were born at the time, for whom they are only two months. My mother has two children, both of whom were born prematurely. One was born at week 24 of pregnancy and the other at week 25 (normal pregnancy is 37 to 40 weeks). The weight of both was less than the weight of the sugar sachet - 700 to 800 grams, but it is a pleasure that both fishers are now grown up and feel good. Each year about a thousand children are prematurely born in Latvia. After giving birth, mothers spend at least three to six months in the hospital until the child is able to breathe independently and is ready to go home. Therefore, in any family, this time is challenging. Even after leaving the hospital, however, it is not always all right. Early births develop at a pace that does not always coincide with peers. Therefore, the medically adjusted age of the child is determined. If the actual age is six months and the child is two months earlier, the adjusted age will be four months. Consequently, children also develop more slowly and reach their peers only at the age of about two years. In such situations, it often happens that at the actual age of one and a half, when the kindergarten should begin, the child has not developed enough, perhaps even climbing, not because the child has any disability, but simply because the child develops according to his or her adjusted age rather than his or her actual age. That is why it is precisely this period of parental leave that is very important. My initial offer was for all children born prematurely (i.e. up to 37 weeks of pregnancy)... extend this period of parental benefit by determining: for how long the child was born, that period of benefit shall be extended for that period. But in view of the short, limited time... Such amendments require huge changes in laws, e-health and other databases; they are no longer possible at this time. But together with the Ministry of Welfare, it was possible to come to a solution whereby all babies born before their mother began maternity leave... that the period in question is extended by the payment of the parental allowance. I call for support. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U681	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U682	Colleagues, I'll keep on the headlines. We will probably also read the following title: a Member has achieved something - the parents of children born prematurely can at last really get fair treatment from the country. However, I remember - and this Mrs may also remember - that two years ago (Dep. L.Kreituse's intermediate call)... Yeah, you weren't, that's exactly... Members Aldis Gobzems, Didzis Šmits, Jūlija Stepanenko, Linda Liepiņa and Karina Sprūde submitted a qualitatively designed draft law that provided support for parents of premature babies and, of course, that draft law also... the calculations were made and it was indicated that for months, as many weeks as the children have rushed ahead of their age, the parents should be compensated before the doctor's age... Of course, it is no easier than to borrow a foreign job and plant yourself in front of us. But, thank you for that. I understand that you could not have done it in any way. In this case, however, I would like to point out that, in an attempt to take a foreign job, it is necessary to do so in a way that does not damage it. Unfortunately, in this case... this good idea, which we led two years ago and which unfortunately lay in a drawer to Mr Skride and was partly supported... Previous bill... working also in the working group has been damaged. It's ruined because each other really wants to get a title... Pre-election in debate... that he has allegedly reached the goal of supporting the parents of premature babies. Unfortunately, this is only about those children who were born about 30 weeks ago. And you can imagine that after this bill... very many parents will feel disappointed because that is not what we wanted to achieve at the time by presenting this draft law with colleagues and fighting for parents' rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U683	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U684	This proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U685	Are Members asking for a vote on proposal 1? Is the vote on proposal 1 being requested? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of 1. - the proposal tabled by Member Liva Kreituses! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U686	Please support the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance” at second, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U687	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance” at second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. On the agenda - consideration of the draft decision. Draft decision “On Extension of the Time Limit for Submission of Proposals in the Draft Law “Amendment to the Time and Application of the Law “On Introduction to the Civil Law of the Renewed Republic of Latvia, the Law of 1937, the Law of the Republic of Latvia on the Right of Success and the Rights of Cases”” (No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on extension of the deadline for submission of proposals in the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Time and Procedure of Entry into Force of the Renewed Civil Law of the Republic of Latvia of 1937, Rights of Heritage and Rights of Cases” (No. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. On the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Draft decision “On withdrawal of Member Jānis Dūklavs from the Commission for Sustainable Development”. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Jānis Dūklavs from the Commission for Sustainable Development! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 74, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Maris Kučinskis from the National Security Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Maris Kučinskis from the National Security Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 57, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of Member Jānis Dūklavs to the National Security Commission. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U688	Dear people, I would call on you to vote in favour because I have been sitting next to Mr Dūklav for years. I have not heard from Mr. Dūklavs at this time any name that would start with the letter L. There was no “L” in the vicinity of the letter at all at this time. It is therefore necessary to reject (Interim.) all its unfounded suspicions. ( Internouncing call.) If we're talking about security. Today, even before we were in office, we suspected that all this listening at that procremal end was more or less complex. It is clear there that you will no longer be able to speak after this vote. The third thing is that this gentleman absolutely needs to be placed in the appropriate commission, because not only can he be entrusted with the secret of the state, but also with grandchildren. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U689	I closed the debate. ( Milestones.) Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Mr Janis Dūklavs to the National Security Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 51, against - 1, refrains - not. Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, Members Ainars Latkovskis, Juris Pūce, Krišjānis Feldmans, Jānis Dombrava and Iveta Benhena-Beeken are asking for changes to the agenda of the Saeima sitting and the referral of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Political Organisations (Parties)” to be discussed before agenda item 48 – draft decision “On Distrust to the Member of the Prime Minister Janis Bordans”. Do Members have objections? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) Thus, there is no objection by Members. We will therefore examine the draft law. So, the Bureau reports on the draft laws that have been tabled. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Political Organisations (Parties)” submitted by Member Māra Možvillo, Ramona Petraviča, Ieva Krapāne, Erika Pucens and Karina Sprūde be referred to the National Administration and Local Government Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Maris Možvillo.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U690	Colleagues, I won't say anything new, as I already say about this law... proposal... I'm talking. Please support... and I will ask the Commission to make this draft law urgent so that we can match the law of political parties at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U691	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law... And the objections? ( Milestones.) Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Interfaces: “No! ”) ) There are no objections. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Dear colleagues, Members Krišjānis Feldmans, Juris Pūce, Anda Čakša, Arvils Aseradens and Līva Kreituse are asking for changes to the agenda of the Saeima sitting and to include the draft law “Law on Civil Union” in the third reading. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( The box “Yes! ”) “Yes!” ; “Let’s vote!” ) Please call us! We will vote for the draft law on civil union law to be included on the agenda for the third reading. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 36, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, There's no quorum. Please call me! We will vote on amendments to the agenda to include the draft law on civil union in the third reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 35, for - no, for - 1. Neither is there a quorum. Since there is once again no quorum in the sitting (interim) The sitting will be closed. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name For Inese Voika to read the registration results. The Republic of Latvia 13. 11th meeting of the Parliamentary Spring Session on 16 June 2022
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U692	Agenda of the sitting Content indicator Votes Group opinions Video broadcasting of sittings Video broadcasting of sittings (archive) Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room. We will begin the session of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 16 June 2022. Dear colleagues, we will see the President of Latvia. Thank you. On the agenda - speech by the President of Latvia Egil Levite. Mr. President, the name is for you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U693	Speaker of the Saeima! Honourable Members! Ladies and gentlemen! After 107 days voters will decide which parties will be entrusted with the administration of the State of Latvia in the next four years. In the context of the political decisions of the next Saeima there will be Russia's threat to the Western world, the abandonment of the democratic world from Russian energy sources, the related price rises and inflation, which will hurt the people of Latvia and our companies. This framework will be a decisive one, which will also set our priorities, and it will be a state's security and resilience. And that is why I will not talk today about education, science, culture, justice, health and many other very important areas, but will focus only on three areas that are most relevant to national security. These are national defence and internal security, which also include the challenges of public integration, the energy crisis and the related state aid policy for citizens, and the improvement of the system of national governance necessary for our country to better manage its resources and respond to crises. I call on each party to offer concrete solutions in its programmes for these three strands. And I call on the voters, when deciding which party to vote on 1 October, to assess whether the party really offers meaningful solutions to these areas. And when choosing the next Prime Minister, I will carefully assess whether the candidate offers concrete, reasonable policies that make Latvia safer and more resilient in crises. Firstly, national protection. Russia has never dared to attack a NATO Member State. However, as long as the imperialist Putin regime or one of his ideological heirs is ruling in Russia, the world, Europe and Latvia must take into account the increased level of threats. As a result of a consistent policy, our National Armed Forces have developed rapidly since 2014, both numerically and after the fighting forces. I would like to emphasise that the combat capacity of our armed forces is highly appreciated by NATO allies. We also have several thousand NATO ally soldiers from more than 10 countries at the moment. However, Russia's threat calls for further strengthening of our defence capabilities. That is why, first of all, we need to increase the number of the National Armed Forces and develop combat capacity. The Saeima has increased the defence budget for the next three years to 2.5 per cent of GDP. However, the next Saeima should once again see whether this is sufficient and whether this percentage should not be increased further. Secondly, a sufficient presence of NATO allies is important alongside our National Armed Forces. I would like to point out that the number of NATO allies in Latvia has increased significantly both within and outside the multinational battle group since the beginning of the Russian war in Ukraine - precisely in the last four months. In the new geopolitical situation, however, with all this increase that we have achieved in recent months, it is not yet enough in the long term. There is a need to strengthen both the command structure and to increase resources. NATO presence in Latvia and the entire Baltic region must be properly marked in the new NATO defence concept, which will be adopted in two weeks' time in Madrid. At the summit, Latvia, together with other countries of the eastern flank, will stand firmly for the presence of sufficient NATO forces in all countries of the eastern flank. However, national security is not just a responsibility of the armed forces. I have therefore repeatedly stressed that internal security should be given special attention in the future, as it has been neglected for a long time. The national border is not yet sufficiently reinforced. The departments of the Ministry of the Interior lack modern equipment and adequate infrastructure. Not least, professionally well-educated personnel. Internal security, therefore, in the coming years, your descendants here in the Saeima must also be a priority in the state budget, because the internal security services in the coming years must "take" to the level already achieved by our National Armed Forces. Ladies and gentlemen! It is the Belarusians and Poles who, after the Russian invasion in Ukraine, are most determined to support Ukraine. Our understanding of Russia's dangers, which the partners in Western Europe have ignored for many years, has had a significant impact on the common position of the European Union, both on the issue of sanctions and on our military support for Ukraine. This is also recognised by international observers. Latvia's foreign policy weight should be maintained in the next four years, as it serves our security. Latvia will stand for the UN Security Council in 2025. It is an opportunity to take responsibility for defending democratic values and international law. It is in our interest, like other UN Member States, to have rules and law-based international order. Working on the Security Council, Latvia's international weight and, I would say, therefore, security would grow. In order to be elected, Latvia must obtain 129 votes from 193 UN member states. And it won't be easy. That is why Members of the next Saeima, our foreign service, must make every effort so that we can take this important position. Latvia belongs to those countries that are actively in favour of the principles of international law and Russia's responsibility in international courts; we also support the establishment of a special international tribunal for the investigation of Russia's aggressive war against Ukraine. Long-term strengthening of Latvia's security is a priority task for the next government and Saeima, coalitions and opposition parties. It must be as persistent as the Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence of this government have done. Honourable Members! Latvia's energy adequacy is also a security issue. The government is currently working on the alert mode to replace Russian gas. That is right. But it is an unforgivable long time to delay the use of wind, solar, biomass and other alternative resources in national energy supplies. Nor has a far-reaching decision been made to build its own liquefied gas terminal, although there has been a debate on this. These previous decisions, or more precisely, the failure to take decisions, are now making our energy crisis even more serious. For example, it is not acceptable for wind farms investors to fall apart in bureaucratic mazes, to fight administrative obstacles, even to judge in order to produce the energy we need. Ladies and gentlemen! We are all aware that the next winter will be heavy. Global prices are rising, inflation is rising. And we know the reason: it is Russia's war against Ukraine. Uncertainty, insecurity, concerns about how each of us will be affected by the crisis are extremely high in society. But it is equally clear that the state of Latvia can and will be able to help its citizens. Therefore, a country that is solidarity with all of us, society as a whole, must have an obligation to support a particular household, which, without this support, would not be able to pay for it. And I stress - to support purposefully! The Prime Minister has insisted on the development of a targeted support system. The public administration must finally do what has not been done in thirty years. The current social aid system is costly and ineffective. This has also been recognised by international experts. It has not served to reduce inequality, which is one of the highest in Latvia in the European Union. A targeted social support system is needed during the energy crisis. At the same time, however, it is also an urgent structural reform to reduce inequalities in the long term. And such a system should be operational already this autumn. Honourable Members! The crisis must not distract our attention from the long-term objectives and other structural reforms that the country needs. And here we have to say that Latvia has been lagging behind Lithuania and Estonia for a long time. With years, this distance is increasing. The figures show this: after purchasing power parity, Lithuania ranks 15th in the European Union, Estonia - 17th in the 17th and Latvia - 23rd in the 5th of the 5th in the end. And here are exactly structural problems that don't exist for a long time... performed. I can refer to these problems that hinder Latvia's development and make us fall behind compared to the rest of the Baltic States: these are administrative obstacles to investment entry; insufficient funding for research and science that reduces the export force; an inefficient system of labour re-training and a lack of qualified labour; an undeveloped housing policy that does not promote labour mobility; insufficient access to credit; a tax system that does not contribute to economic development and many others. And you could probably add to this list. And in each of these areas there is a need for serious - and I stress! - structural reforms. Honourable Members! I would like to draw little attention now to the effectiveness of just one of these structural issues, namely public administration issues. Latvian public administration, which has been built by 19th century - colleagues, by 19th century! - the Ministry is not able to respond quickly and qualitatively to the needs of society. It is not suitable for the difficult world of the 21st century, which requires cross-sectoral and interinstitutional cooperation. For example, Andris Bite, the new president of the Employers' Confederation, admits that every ministry lives in its own world, but if cooperation between several ministries is required, then things are in the box. Even the Minister of Defence, who temporarily had to take responsibility for Ukrainian refugees, had to find that coordination between the various ministries was very, very difficult and almost impossible to do. One other example. Millions have been invested in the digitalisation of public administration. The information is stored in 180 different digital registers, but the shared automated use of the data does not take place. In order for two or more public authorities to exchange data or use each other's database, almost every time an amendment of the law is necessary. The data necessary for the social service of the municipality are still processed manually in most cases. And it is still necessary to agree with the Prime Minister's criticism of the collective failure of the state administration to use technology to perform its duties, so to collect and analyse data to provide the citizens with the services they need, but it must not continue. Therefore, the digital governance of the country for the next government, the next Saeima, must be transformed so that it serves society - that is, convenient, efficient and accessible to all. And this area must be supervised by a politically responsible official at the level of the Cabinet of Ministers. There must also be a political officer in charge of Latvia's green rate and related reforms in the economy, as these are all cross-institutional and cross-sectoral issues. Public administrations need to be flexible and respond to the challenges and solutions of each particular time. Even if it affects several sectors or institutions at the same time. If it concerns one sector, one institution, then everything is fine, but just a number of institutions, several sectors are involved, then we are beating, and this is a structural issue. That is why I will call on the next candidate for the Prime Minister to present a concrete, balanced, comprehensive and justified reform plan to address the persistent delay in public administration. And with the usual primitive, populist proposals, please don't come to me at all! (Applause) Honourable Members! Finally, some of the challenges of social integration. The decision to demolish the monument in Pārdaugava marks a symbolic turning point. It pulls a line on Russia's right to cultivate its imperialist ideological rituals here with us in our country. It is also the right decision to ban Russian TV propaganda channels, because anti-democratic propaganda does not fall within the scope of freedom of expression. However, historically, perhaps the most significant merit of this Saeima will be the decision to end artificial divisions, after a short transitional period - starting in 2025 - with a single school education in the state language. You will decide today on the relevant amendments to education legislation at first reading. And we have political forces that have always consistently stood up for this, just as there are other forces who have considered this step too early with various reservations or have not considered it necessary at all. The issue has been addressed in part by the 2004 reform by requiring that part of the training in Russian schools should take place in the national language. In 2011, an attempt was made to organise a referendum that already envisaged a complete transition to national language training, but the referendum initiative did not receive sufficient support at that time. And now this issue - after more than thirty years of renewed independence - will be closed. It should be noted that the possibility of learning the language and culture of their minorities as a separate subject remains in the future. I would like to raise again the issue of discrimination against Latvia on the labour market. This has also been the case here in the Saeima, too, with a heated debate. We have the language of our country, which must be sufficient in all living and working situations. Employers should understand that Latvia is a national country, a European country with a common state language, and it is only exceptionally possible to claim knowledge of a foreign language in such workplaces where this is objectively necessary, for example, if the basis is to work with foreign tourists or the respective foreign countries. It must be clearly regulated in the Labour Law, and it should be done by this Saeima, not leave this job to the next. It is possible that, generally speaking, the requirement for knowledge of foreign languages could only apply to English, which is today the main language of international communication, and we are communicating with our neighbours, for example, in the north and south, east and west. And the whole world. But it must also be carefully weighed. It simply - when will decide on this supplement to the Labour Law. I must stress that Latvian society is open to anyone who has wanted to integrate into our society on the basis of the values contained in the Constitution. These values are: Latvian as the only language of the country, Latvia as a Latvian, national and our membership of the Western democratic world. The choice to integrate on the basis of these values has been made by a large part of our minorities, including condemning Russia's aggression in Ukraine. And they are all Latvian patriots. They have no problems either with the common language of the country or with the Latvian nature of our country. At the same time, there are some people who speak Russian as their family language, but now they are going through their identity crisis. Their historical cultural source - Russia, therefore - has been ruined by moral authority. However, they still have some difficulty answering an elementary question: who or who is responsible for war and war crimes in Ukraine? ( We know that many Germans outside Germany suffered similar suffering when the Nazis came to power in 1933.) The perception that their country of origin has become criminal is not easy to tolerate. And perhaps speaking to them, we can help to sort out a little bit of their political and moral compass. Therefore, it is right that several decisions of the Saeima of recent times are aimed at addressing any praise of Russian imperialist ideology in the public space, addressing the state of Latvia and its citizens. Latvia as a democratic state does not impose its choice on anyone, but offers an opportunity to build its membership in a modern, democratic, human society. Therefore, it is pointless for Latvia to be accused that it has failed to integrate the persuasive foamists. It's a choice for these people. They want to enjoy the freedoms and opportunities of the European state, but to continue to live mentally in a world of imperialist Russian ideologies. They cannot be integrated unless they change their own absurd position. Honourable Members! The next four years of Saeima will be a part of the time in which, despite the circumstances, the aim of the state of Latvia, i.e. to guarantee the existence and development of the Latvian nation, its language and culture through centuries, to ensure the freedom of the people of Latvia and everyone and to promote prosperity, will be pursued in the best way. This is the great goal of the Latvian state, which is determined by the Satversme, and this objective remains unchanged and is always valid. Thank you for your attention. And happy Johns! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U694	Colleagues, let's get up when the President of Latvia leaves the hall. I thank President-in-Office Egil Levit for his speech. I thank Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš for his participation in today's Saeima sitting. ( Milestones.) Mr Kariņš, perhaps stay for a while more, Members are asking. ( Milestones.) Very good... Prime Minister has made us a little confused. Okay. Colleagues, let's continue. The agenda was the changes tabled to the Bureau's agenda. Members Viktors Valainis, Uldis Augulis, Gundars Dauge, Jānis Vucāns and Armands Krauze ask that the draft law “Amendments to the General Education Law” be placed on the agenda of the Saeima sitting (No. 1532/Lp13). ‘ For” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U695	Good morning, colleagues! Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. Dear colleagues, this draft law provides for several things on which all of you have been referred to by the trade union of Latvian Education and Science Workers. Colleagues, today will be a great opportunity for you all to get out of the e-Saima, get out of the virtual world and face with people – face to face with educators, address them and understand how your decisions affect processes and what people think about. Today, there will be a picket at the Saeima, and this picket, in my view, is only because the government has shown arrogance towards the educators - completely unnecessary at this time - which, in my view, is unacceptable. In this draft law, we have included obvious and quite simple things. First. We ask for teachers and all those working in the education system to be in good time! - to find out what pay they will pay on 1 September, what load will be. These basic questions, which are for every educator, so that they are known early on 1 September. Second point: We are asking and asking the government to ensure such an increase in the budget so as not to force the municipality to optimise the school network in such drastic proportions. In order for the government to also engage in the financing of teachers' salaries, this increase must be ensured. It cannot be just at the expense of the municipalities, as is currently being proposed. I think that's not right. More than that. The government's current position and offer put in an unpunished position a whole range of municipalities whose reforms have been carried out. The carrot method has been working like a whip at this point - quite the opposite. In my view, those municipalities that have worked must receive adequate remuneration, those that have done this difficult work - the optimisation of the school network - have gone through... this way, they must not be punished. That is what we fully support on the issues raised by education workers, and which will take place today. Colleagues! With regard to Riga and Pierīga. Here, too, we must understand this competition between ourselves, and we must not put Riga or Perry in different situations. There must be a common approach to which the teachers have pointed out to us, and I call on you to do so, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I call all of you today to go to talk to the educators, to meet, to answer them why this is not happening. Colleagues, these LiZDA requirements require a little more activity from us - a little more activity from us. Three and a half million from the state budget. Against this background, when educators, both during the Covid-19 pandemic and following this administrative territorial reform, and after internal reforms in every municipality, are sufficiently affected by the optimisation of the school network. I call on you to come in front of the teachers, not to put them in the role of a petitioner. This is the arrogance of the government, why today there will be 2 000 educators at the Saeima to show you this displeasure. I invite you to go and watch them in the eyes and tell them why you have led them so far that they will be at the Saeima today. I invite you to support this draft law, which includes all the requirements of the Latvian Education and Science Workers' Union.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U696	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? Please call me! Vote on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on General Education” (No. 1532/Lp13) inclusion on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 36, for - 44, for - 3. Draft legislation is not on the agenda of the sitting. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is asking for the draft law amending the Law on Budget and Financial Management to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission is asking to include in the agenda of the sitting the draft decision “On the approval of Jautrite Briede as a judge of the Constitutional Court” and to include it behind item 14 of the agenda. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Energy Efficiency” (No. 1511/Lp13) at first reading. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks that draft law “Amendments to the Energy Law” be included on the agenda of the sittings (No. 1503/Lp13) at first reading. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market” (No. 1504/Lp13) at first reading. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Krišjānis Feldmans, Sandis Riekstins, Uldis Budriķis, Jānis Cielēns, Reinis Znotiņš and others are asking to include on the agenda the draft decision “On the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Jānis Cielēns from the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Krišjānis Feldmans, Sandis Riekstins, Uldis Budriķis, Jānis Cielēns, Reinis Znotiņš and others are asking to include on the agenda the draft decision “On the appointment of the Saeima Member Jānis Cielēns at the Education, Culture and Science Commission”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission is asking to include in the agenda of the sitting the draft decision “On the dismissal of the judge Vita Lāčplēsis of Daugavpils court from the position of a judge” and to include him in the agenda section of the meeting “The election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officers, expression of trust or distrust”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission shall request that the draft decision “On the dismissal of Long Zaluzinsk of the Regional Court of Latgale from the position of a judge” be included on the agenda of the sitting and shall be included in the agenda section “Conclusion of election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal, trust or distrust”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission is asking to include in the agenda of the sitting the draft decision “On Extension of the Term of Submission of Proposals in the Draft Law “Amendment to the Law “On Time and Procedure of Entry into Force of the Renewed Civil Law of the Republic of Latvia of 1937, Rights of Heritage and Rights of Cases”” (No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks that the draft law on amendments to the Protection Zone Law be included on the agenda for the first reading. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Aviation” be included on the agenda for the first reading. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity is asking to include in the agenda the draft law “On the recognition of Diāna Mejas Mathuras as a citizen of Latvia”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission of Social and Labour Affairs asks for item 40 of the agenda – draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance” (No. 1403/Lp13) - to be removed from the agenda of the sitting until the subsequent committee decision. Are Members opposed to this? ( The box “Yes! ”) ; “Ir!” ) Members have reservations. Please call me! We will vote in favour of excluding paragraph 40 of the draft law on maternity and sickness insurance from the agenda of the sitting (No. 1403/Lp13) - pending the subsequent decision of the Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation shall not be excluded from the agenda of the sitting. And Social and Work... Colleagues! So this draft law is not excluded from the agenda of the sitting, but we have to decide on the draft law "Amendments to the law on maternity and sickness insurance" (No. 1535/Lp13) on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. Let us start by looking at the amended agenda of the sitting. Dear colleagues, Changes to the agenda were also submitted. Let us give Members time to get to know them, and then we can decide on it. On the agenda - reports from the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the member Alda Gobzema, Karina Sprūde, Māra Možvillo, Ramona Petraviča and Ērika Pucena refer the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Pensions” to the Social and Labour Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Aldis Gobzems.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U697	Hello! This question is about having children born in Latvia and encouraging women to give birth to children. This is a question of reducing the retirement age for women who have given birth to four children. In particular, they would have to reduce their retirement age by five years. I think that in our country, in which children are not born, in which children choose not to be born or, more precisely, in which children are born in at least the last 100 years, we must do everything to motivate people to take the decision to send a baby into the world. This is just one of many instruments, and I think that in the next parliament, where other political forces will be present, different from those currently in power, such privileges will be granted to families with children. One such privilege will be to reduce the retirement age. I am also convinced that the direction in which I will have to work and to which I personally believe - that the families where the fourth child is taken up or adopted - the state pays all the mortgage credit and exempts them from payment of the credit. The families who lay a child in the world must be given the EUR 5000 aid that I have already mentioned for every child born. And all children have to give their holidays. Everyone, from first to last class. And every child... in terms of child benefit... must be rewarded at the same level; it cannot be that one child - more, another child - is less, because all children are equally valuable. Here, only these proposals will change the country; no other proposal will be able to do so. We can build concrete buildings, we can build unknown prisons... We can encourage all possible flags, like some of them... He's been put here on the tables, but nothing will change by waving these flags. Everything will only change if we support children and if we support children's mothers first. I therefore call for this proposal to be supported. I call on you to know that this Saeima will not do this; this will be done by the next Saeima, where the majority will be very different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U698	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Internouncing call.) Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On State Pensions” to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 39, it's against - 49, it's not. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Bureau of the Saeima proposes the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits” presented by Member Alda Gobzem, Karina Sprūde, Ramona Petravičas, Māra Možvillo and Erika Pucena (No. 1524/Lp13) to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, establishing that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Aldis Gobzems.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U699	The nature of this proposal is very simple: for every child - EUR 100 per month. And that's the only way... and I can repeat, especially for a party that has priority over gambling and iris flags, I can repeat that the country will flourish not where there are gambling and iris flags, but where there are children. And where the children are supported. Dear people! Loved families - Latvian families! If you vote in favour of Gobzem, you will have EUR 100 for every child; you will have EUR 5000 for every child given birth. And...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U700	Colleagues, I do not, however, ask for the pre-election campaign from the parliamentary tribunal to take place. Talk about the bill. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U701	... and that's just the beginning. The country that will support the children will flourish, there is no other way. And we will not need any demographic centres, we will not need any integration centres, no NEPPs, no SEPLP and no major repairs of the financial system. We will simply support children, families with children, and that will be what will change the country. It has happened everywhere in the world, at all stages of history, the countries where children are supported flourish. And Latvia will not be an exception. If Gobzem has power, the children will be supported. And...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U702	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U703	... This is the only way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U704	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits” to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 37, against - 49, abstaining. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the member Alda Gobzema, Karina Sprūde, Ramona Petraviča, Māra Možvillo and Ērika Pucens be referred to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Aldis Gobzems.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U705	Before I start to talk, there are already colleagues who try again, once again, to panic over this proposal or on other proposals aimed at bringing children to Latvia. This proposal is as follows: EUR 5000 for every child born. And that's nothing you should be looking at.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U706	Mr. Gobzem, no one laughed here.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U707	You may not have seen it, but I saw it very well, Mrs. Mourniece. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U708	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? Please call me! Vote on the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Social Benefits” (No. 1525/Lp13) transfer to the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 39, it's against - 49, it's not. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the Member Karina Sprūde, Alda Gobzem, Māra Možvillo, Ramona Petraviča and Ērika Pucens refer the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Real Estate Tax” to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible. ‘ Karina Sprūde, Member, has applied to speak about”
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U709	Dear colleagues, Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Of course, I would like to start with a reminder of how difficult people are and how afraid they are to expect the autumn that their savings have come to an end, but I will talk a little about the figures about the concessions that are granted and the sums that are available to the equalisation fund. For example, in Riga, the application of real estate tax rates is a criterion for declaration: if there is no one declared in the property, the rate is 1.5 per cent. Where at least one is declared, a reduced rate of 0,2, 0,4 or 0,6 shall apply. You can get relief from 25 percent to 90 percent in Jurmala. In Jurmala, many children's families, politically oppressed, families with disabled persons of Group I or II, as well as other groups of residents may receive relief for the property of the building, provided that Jurmala is the owner's declared place of residence for a period of not less than two years. In turn, 90 per cent of the land relief is received by real estate tax payers, natural persons who have declared their place of residence in Jurmala. On Marupe County. There are various reliefs for disabled people, pensioners, politically oppressed persons and other population groups, as well as a 50 percent discount on real estate tax payments... for a person, the place where he or she declared his or her place of residence. This year, the Rozai region provides for a discount for real estate tax for 27 groups of residents - for example, the low-income, politically oppressed, members of the barricades of 1991, participants of the emergency response of Chernobyl AES, persons with disabilities, pensioners, residents of the area of Getliņa. Immovable property tax discounts also vary from 25 to 90 per cent in this region. Adaži Regional Council grants a 50 per cent discount on real estate tax on housing where the owner is declared. In Ķekava, the real estate tax relief for land and buildings is 70 per cent, for example for multi-child families, while for single pensioners whose pension does not exceed the minimum monthly salary, the real estate tax relief for buildings and land is 90 per cent. Also, pensioners from 70 years of age are eligible for 50 per cent housing tax. Rich municipalities can already afford to reduce real estate tax, apply many different discounts, as a result of which municipalities pay the most to the Equalisation Fund. According to the preliminary figures for 2022, Riga Municipality's Financial Equalisation Fund provides almost 96 million euros, Jurmala - more than 11 million euros, Mārupes novads - more than nine million euros, Ropažu novads - almost six million euros, Ādažu novads - almost five million euros, Ķekava novads - almost four million euros, Saulkrasti novads - almost one million euros, Salaspils novads - 77 thousand euros. Daugavpils – 23.5 million euro, Liepaja – 13 million euro, Jēkabpils and Rēzekne novads – 10 million euro each, Augšdaugava and Talsu novads – almost nine million euro each, Kraslava, Southern Kurzeme and Tukums novads – eight million euro each, Madona, Ludza, Cesis and Bauska municipality – seven million euro each. I already understand that no one is interested, not even the Prime Minister is interested in how our people live... We don't have to abolish property tax... that people live in hunger, that people live in cold. The entire Energy Act that you are heading is based only on benefits. Forget that people also have firewood that they need pellets. Well, it's okay! We'll live! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U710	Mr. Aldis Gobzems has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U711	I call on all those who are against Latvian society to vote against and all those who always turn off the microphone when speaking to provide support to Latvian society. From this platform, I would like to announce that today I will appeal to the Commission for Mandate, Ethics and Application against Ināra Mūrniekis, who uses his service position...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U712	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this isn't...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U713	... which uses its own service position...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U714	This is a debate on the specific draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U715	... and regularly turn off the microphone without allowing the mind to be expressed.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U716	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Internouncing call.) Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Real Estate Tax”” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 36, against - 47, refraining from - 1. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the Member Viktoras Valaiņa, Ulda Augulis, Gundars Dauges, Armands Krauze and Janina Yalinska's draft law "Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax" be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U717	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Dear Saeima! Dear colleagues, This proposal is a response to the proposal made by Minister Daniel Pavļuta and the Ministry of Health to reduce the prices of medicines in our pharmacy. There are several things in this offer. One thing is the reduction in value added tax. Colleagues, I call on you to decide today that this issue of the reduction in value added tax should not be shifted to the next Saeima or to another Saeima, but that it should be turned into a bill today and that the Saeima should start discussions already. Highly Respected Development/About! This bill is your minister's offer to reduce the price of medicines. I call on you in particular to vote, but overall, if we look at this offer, the purpose and nature of this offer is to reduce the increase in inflation with tax instruments. It is completely different from what the government now proposes, which is currently proposed by Prime Minister Kariņš, with his welfare minister, working actively on the goals - targets! - the types of aid. Colleagues, with targeted forms of support, if we continue to do so, we will not have the second highest inflation in the European Union, but I think we will also have the status of first place to which we are now very active - if we do not do anything... fiscal instruments, including the reduction of value added tax on medicines and other forms. Colleagues, let's see how we do this... how to reduce inflation in other countries, such as Poland itself. There is much talk about Poland, but Poland has a number of taxes... excises... VAT reduced. If we are talking about Lithuania or Estonia, the immediate neighbours, then both these support measures and tax cuts have already been adopted in Lithuania, for example, in order to reduce inflation. Colleagues, I would also like to name you other countries, such as France, Italy, Germany - all these countries choose to try instead of some targeted instruments... If you're busy... You can do this with targeted instruments, but we also need to reduce the rise in inflation. And that is a significant difference from what the government is now proposing and from what we, the Union of Greens/Farmers, are proposing on the part of the opposition. We also offer to think about tax instruments now. France, Italy, Germany have adopted a number of aid measures, both for excise duty and for value added tax... reductions, including these targeted instruments that you have called for. They are not just talking about them, they have already introduced them - they have introduced them! They have aid payments for both fuel--all... and that is the total stupidity that we are trying to say here that such solutions will help the rich more. On the contrary, such solutions will directly help those with the lowest income who are currently suffering the most from this price increase. The drug... Yeah, seniors of the drug... It is precisely those with the lowest income who suffer the most at present. Colleagues, I call on you to finally cut it and support it, and to start discussions on tax cuts. ( Milestones.) We can't - we can't! - allow us to have the second largest inflation. Colleagues, all these targeted support that has been in place so far - what have they shown? Covid-19 Support - What is the dry balance? Inequality only increased. You gave more to those who had already, and less to those who needed it in essence. A number of studies show this. With regard to these targeted proposals, you are still talking. I call on you to finally accept something to come into force. I call on you to be more active. Support this already announced by the Minister for Health. Otherwise, I regard it as a populism of pre-election and not more. We will not see here anything that the pump announces to Development/About! Minister. Then take and support, this is your offer! One against one thing your minister says. Here, you have the opportunity to vote. And in general - the government, do something to reduce inflation! None of the offers that are on the table today reduce inflation. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U718	Thank you. Your speaking time is over. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax" to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Excise Tax’ presented by Alda Gobzem, Julia Stepanenko, Karina Sprūde, Kaspars Girgens and Ieva Krapāne be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Aldis Gobzems.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U719	We offer fuel with a 25-pass discount per litre in circumstances where fuel prices exceed already two euros. It is not essential, it is necessary to support people. This is much more important than the Civil Union law. It is much more important than monuments, piers, or iris or Ukrainian flags, because it is targeted support for the people of Latvia. For four years this Parliament has not taken care of Latvian society. And today this Parliament will not take care of Latvian society. These proposals, which are rejected one by one, are a good example and a reminder to the Latvian public that in the autumn, before making a choice which should be voted on, the television channels should be turned off and closed... “Panoram”... “ Delfus” and all the rest, open your refrigerator and see if there’s more than just a cold in it. Of course, if there is electricity for which the price will be paid, because one large part of petrol can no longer afford to pay today. Such support is normal in other countries - in countries that take care of people, in countries where there are not corrupt and cartel politicians who occasionally portray patriotism in the name of the state, but people who take care of their people. Care for their people is not the worship of stones or various other idolatry, but the clear and direct support of people - all, different groups - children, adults, those who go to work... All of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U720	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission to the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 38, against - 50, abstaining. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Law” presented by the Member Jānis Dombrava, Janīna Kursīte-Pakules, Jānis Iesalnieks, Rittvars Jansons and Edvins Šnore be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, as well as to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? ( Internouncing call.) Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Law” to the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, as well as to the Legal Commission, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 50, for - 10, for - 1. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on Budgetary and Financial Management’ presented by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On the recognition of Diāna Mejas Mathuras as a citizen of Latvia” submitted by the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Public Alignity be referred to the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Public Reassociation, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance” presented by the Social and Labour Commission be referred to the Social and Labour Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Next, reports by the Bureau on own-initiative proposals submitted. Members Aldis Gobzems, Karina Sprūde, Maris Možvillo, Ramona Petraviča, Eriks Pucens, Ralfs Nemiro, Maris Kučinskis, Kaspars Ģirgens, Edgars Tavars and Viktors Valainis have submitted their own proposal – the draft decision on state-paid meals for learners. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) There are objections. We must therefore decide on the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of the next sitting. agenda of the next meeting. Mr. Gobzem will talk about it? ‘ For” applied to speak Member Aldis Gobzems.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U721	Finland once flourished - when a similar regulation was adopted - when all children were granted a holiday. Breakfast and lunch at school in all classes, kindergartens... to the last class at the expense of the State. We're all at our expense. And that is important from several points of view. First. In fact, the smallest and least important aspect is the social function, which feeds less well-off children. Most important, though, is that such a system enables a person to grow under much healthier conditions. Good food is good health. Good food - it is a proper and developed brain activity, which children in particular need in the education process. Good food, Mr Shadursky, is crucial in the education process, and you should know that, as a former minister of education, and not laugh at your place in my direction.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U722	I'm sorry, Mr. Gobzem, I can't see anybody laughing at you. ( The box “I See! ”) ; intermediates.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U723	But everyone heard that, Mrs. Mourniece! Everyone except you heard what Shadurski said from the place.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U724	I don't see anyone here about you in this room laughing. Please continue the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U725	You all heard... You all heard me, didn't you? You heard that Shadurski was raging about this issue from his place. ( The box “No! ”) “Yes!” We didn’t hear it!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U726	Ladies and gentlemen, however, I call for mutual insults or misunderstanding to be made clear to the Committee on Mandate, Ethics and Application, not to be dealt with here in the sitting of the Saeima. Here we are deciding on the progress of the draft decision. Please continue.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U727	Yeah. And I'm sure... It is clear that this Saeima will not take a decision on children's weekends, but I am convinced that this decision, together with the EUR 5000 that I have previously mentioned for each child, is crucial for changes in the country. It is much more important than pension indexation, much more important than any other decision. A country in which not gay marriage will be a priority, but a child - that country is with the future. I am not saying this because I would be terrifying about how gays live - either together or separately - but I see examples of history, many examples of history, that the direction in which every particular new person is invested is invested in every way, starting with eating, has brought results in those countries. In fact, I believe that children's lunch should not be what it is like in many schools where children are fed as animals, I am sorry, but it is true... children must receive a lunch that is more subtle than in a restaurant, at the highest level. It teaches them other values, different lifestyles, different visions. And in the end, it's just healthy. Children should be given the best food: fish, fruit, vegetables. And public money. That is right. And those people who can yell about it, I don't understand them... who can object to it. I don't understand them, honor, I don't understand. I don't understand either as a father or as a politician. I therefore call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U728	“Pret” has applied to speak to Member Eriks Pucens.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U729	Hello, dear colleagues! Of course, I call for a young Unity to vote against. And Mr Shadursky had the greatest objections. If you have an opinion, come here at the platform, and tell us why children should not get a holiday in local governments... not to sit and murmur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U730	Colleagues, don't talk to the hall. Please debate the specific draft decision, state the reasons for it: ‘for’ or ‘to’. So one Member said 'for', one spoke 'for'. Let's vote. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft decision on state-paid catering for learners on the agenda of the Saeima's next sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft decision is not on the agenda of the next sitting of the Saeima. Are there any proposals for referrals to one of the commissions? Turn on the microphone for Member Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U731	Referral to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U732	So there is a proposal to hand over the budget and financial (tax) commission. Please call me! We will vote for handing over to the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission the draft decision on state-paid catering for learners! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 38, against - 48, abstaining. The draft decision shall not be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission and shall be rejected. Members Kaspars Ģirgens, Ieva Krapāne, Ralfs Nemiro, Maris Možvillo, Aldis Gobzems, Karina Sprūde, Jūlija Stepanenko, Lubova Švecova, Edgars Tavars and Viktors Valainis have submitted their own proposal – draft decision “On task for the Cabinet of Ministers in an urgent manner until 15 July 2022 to develop a state aid plan for overcoming the energy and food crisis”. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Members have reservations on the agenda? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Members have reservations, so we must decide to put this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of the next sitting. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Kaspars Ģirgens.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U733	On 27 April, Mr Kariņš was asked two questions. The first question was when a plan will be drawn up to overcome the energy crisis. The answer was that, at present, the electoral process hinders its development. Then he was asked the second question right away: "Really - do you have a specific date when this plan will be drawn up?" The answer was short and concrete. Almost two months have passed, and we see that there is still no plan. Every one of us... perhaps also coalition Members... we only get some additional information from the Internet that the Ministry of Welfare seems to have developed an idea of how to deal with this crisis. Then there is information that we should perhaps still focus more on benefits than on helping everyone. So every day, we get information on how we can work, while other countries have long adopted these support measures, even Lithuania, for example. We're still... I will perhaps say more specifically: not we, but the expensive coalition is still looking for ways to move and solve this problem that has developed. If, at the moment, we have a head on eight percent of inflation in America, then we are all right - noting special at 16 percent of inflation. Do we really have to wait for the elections to come - perhaps August - to start promising what benefits? Let us think logically. The same as the President of Latvia said. He expects the new government, the new Members, to see how to overcome this crisis. When will these new Members come? November? When a government is formed from these fragmented parties, which will be at least seven... Six... eight. It's gonna be December, January. The crisis will already be at its own heights. Right now... We already had to have support mechanisms today, because we see that food does not become cheaper. It becomes more expensive every day. Fuel becomes more expensive, energy resources become more expensive. Go to the store and you will see how the - most - briquettes, including granules, are caught. At the moment, the country deserves it, because there are no aid measures and, as I can see, there will be no aid in the future. Therefore, our proposal is to instruct the Cabinet of Ministers to develop this support mechanism plan by 15 July. I can't see another chance. How long can you wait? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U734	Thank you. Dear colleagues, We will have to decide on the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of the next sitting. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft decision “On task for the Cabinet of Ministers in an urgent procedure until 15 July 2022 to draw up a state aid plan for overcoming the energy and food crisis” on the agenda of the next meeting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 38, against - 48, abstaining. Consequently, the draft decision is not on the agenda for the next sitting. Are there any proposals for referrals to one of the commissions? Please, a microphone member, Ģürgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U735	Referral to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U736	So there is a proposal to refer the draft decision to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Please call me! We will vote for handing over the draft decision “On task for the Cabinet of Ministers in an urgent manner until 15 July 2022 to develop a state aid plan for overcoming the energy and food crisis” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 37, against - 49, abstaining. Consequently, the draft decision has not been referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission and has been rejected. Statement by the Bureau on the granting of leave From 8 June to 9 June, Mr Ivan Ribakov shall be entitled to unpaid leave. Dear colleagues, the Bureau of the Saeima has received an application from Mr Ivan Ribakov, Member of the Parliament, requesting that unpaid leave be granted from 8 June to 9 June. The Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. On closing and opening the session of the Saeima. Draft decision on the closure of the Saeima's 2022 spring session and the opening of the 2022 autumn session. Dear colleagues, the draft decision is intended to close the spring session of the Saeima on 17 June this year and to open the autumn session on 5 September this year. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the closure of the Saeima's 2022 spring session and the opening of the 2022 autumn session! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 85, it's two, it's not. The decision has been taken. So on the agenda... We'll get it all the time. On the re-reading of the law. The Law on Electronic Communications. Dear colleagues, Thus, on 9 June this year, the President of Latvia sent the Saeima for re-reading the Law on Electronic Communications adopted by the Saeima on 2 June this year. Responsible for this law is the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. According to the order of the Saeima, the Saeima shall set a time limit for the submission of proposals, as well as the date when the law shall be re-examined at the sitting of the Saeima. Please... You can also talk from where you are. Please turn on the microphone for Krišjānis Feldman. Only the deadline for submitting proposals... and also a re-examination of the date.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U737	Thank you. The Commission has decided to propose 1 July as a deadline for the submission of proposals at the next extraordinary meeting thereafter.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U738	Let's say, at the next Saeima sitting after July 1. Are there any other proposals? There are no other proposals, so the deadline for the submission of proposals - 1 July this year - for the next sitting of the Saeima after 1 July this year. Colleagues, amendments have been tabled to the agenda of the sitting. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has requested that changes be made to the agenda of the sitting and that it be included in the draft law on amending the Law on Budget and Financial Management at first reading. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Also, the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Public Solidarity asks that the draft law “On the recognition of Diāna Mejas Mathuras as a citizen of Latvia” be placed on the agenda of the Saeima sitting for the first reading. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Committee on Social and Labour Affairs is asking to include in the agenda of the sitting the draft law drafted by the Commission “Amendments to the Law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance” at first reading. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. Dear colleagues, Members Latkovskis, Pūce, Feldmans, Dombrava and Asheraden ask for an amendment to the Saeima sitting and to exclude from it the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Pensions” (No. 1492/Lp13). Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ ) Mr. Valaiņš will speak 'no' if? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Valainis: “ Against”! ) Mr Viktors Valainis has applied to speak against.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U739	Dear colleagues, We have been in the opposition - and in this respect the opposition is quite united - for some time now insisted on a faster indexation of pensions. We have put forward various proposals, both in the form of a bill and in the form of legislative proposals, both for a one-off allowance, which must be adopted as soon as possible, and for a faster indexation of pensions than the government had determined. At present, the opposition, together with one of the coalition parties, has achieved a faster indexation of pensions than the government has intended. Dear colleagues, our seniors are waiting for this decision today, and today is the summer... Today is the last session of this session. For what moment then do you intend to postpone the adoption of this question? The family must make decisions now and immediately, not sometime in a month or autumn. Elders need to know what their income will be. This is a very good thing for you at the moment against the elders who are waiting for this decision. Those other decisions that we will discuss from this troupe, and which are submitted to the opposition, too. But mainly on indexation, which should take place not on 1 September, but on 1 August. This was where the opposition thought to be one of the coalition parties. Therefore, in honor of “Development/About!” , do not submit to this proposal and, together with the opposition, do one good job to make it clear to the seniors of John that their pension indexation will be from 1 August. I call for the initiative put forward by these Members to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U740	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote to exclude the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Pensions” from the agenda of the Saeima sitting (No. 1492/Lp13)! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 45, it's against - 38, it's not. Decision adopted. The draft law is excluded from the agenda of the sitting. Dear colleagues, It's time for a break. Please call me! Please register the presence of Members! Dear colleagues, no matter how vehement the Saeima has been, we have always honored our Johns and Leagues before the elections. Dear colleagues, Please come out here, Saeima sitting room, our John. Jānis Butan (Applause) , Jānis Cielēns, Jānis Dombrava, Jānis Dūklavs, Jānis Iesalnieks, Jānis Krišāns... John Krishan, come here! Jānis Tutins, Jānis Urbanovičs, Jānis Vitenbergs, Jānis Vucāns... Wasn't Wuzcana? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Beitnere-Le Galla: ‘Is Vucanas’. ) Wucan is, is. Very good. Dear colleagues, (Intellectual) , pag, pag... What I want to say to you today. In the evening of the grass day, Percon John roared hard: To whom it came into the nations an unspoiled hat. Here, too, the protocol would have something to say, and perhaps Ieva Acuratere. ( Milestones.) She's in, come on! ( Milestones.) We're all gonna have to sing to Eve Aquater. ( The Members sing a song.) Thank you. (Applause) And what beautiful song will the Johns sing to us? ( Milestones.) Okay. Name For Inese Voika to read the registration results. ( Insight: “Are all Johns here? ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U741	Colleagues, all Jāņi have registered, but have not registered: Aldis Blumbergs, Mārtiņš Bondars, Raivis Dzintars, Rihards Kols, Māris Kučinskis, Viesturs Liepkalns, Ralfs Nemiro, Edmunds Teirumnieks, Atis Zakaitistovs and Gatis Zamurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U742	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U743	Dear colleagues, I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber. We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Decision on the appointment of Ilze Znotiņa as Head of the Financial Intelligence Service. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U744	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Sitting viewers and listeners! The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption has examined the draft decision on the appointment of Ilze Znotiņa as Head of the Financial Intelligence Service. As expressed by the Commission, the selection of the Chief of Service took place in accordance with the Cabinet of Ministers’ regulations “Regulations on the Selection of Candidates for the Head of the Financial Intelligence Service”. According to a special law, a competition was carried out for the selection of candidates for the position of head of the Financial Intelligence Service, whose commission was... led by Director of the State Chancellery Jānis Citskovskis, also consisted of Prosecutor General Juris Stukāns, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior Dimitrijs Trofimovs, Minister of Finance Jānis Reirs, Director of the Constitutional Protection Bureau Egils Swedishis and Head of State Security Service Normunds Mežvietis. The evaluation also included representatives delegated by the Council for the Development of the Financial Sector: Santa Purgaile, Chairman of the Financial and Capital Market Commission, Jānis Brazovskis, member of the Board of the Latvian Financial Industry Association, and Vitalijs Gavrilovs, President of the Latvian Employers' Confederation. A total of eight applications were received for the position of Head of Financial Intelligence. As a result of the competition, Ilze Znotiņš, the current president of the Financial Intelligence Service, was recognised by the commission as the most appropriate candidate. The Commission listened to the applicants, asked questions, received replies and, by vote (in favour of -8, refraining -1, no -no) supported the appointment of Ilze Znotiņa as Head of the Financial Intelligence Service. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U745	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U746	I will tell you a story, in reality two real stories, where the capital repairs of the financial system and the pointless supervision of this whole financial system have led to. The story is number one. It's a real story, it's happening in Latvia. On the Internet, the mother of children on the world’s largest shopping platform (with profits of more than 400 billion, if not misguided, Amazon) wants to buy children’s teaching tools and a swimming pool with a unicorned image for a minor child. The Latvian bank “Swedbank” – i.e. the Latvian bank “Swedbank” – refuses this transaction because it is a suspicious transaction that is very likely related to terrorism and threats to the state. I would like to say that the value of this transaction was about EUR 30. It's a story number one. The story is numbered two. About a month ago, I was sitting and drinking coffee with a big taxpayer, a citizen of the Republic of Latvia, the owner of the company, who is taking up in the Latvian market in the relevant sector... I would not say that it is essential, I would say that the second biggest, as I say, percentage of the whole market. He says to me: “I made a company in Finland for a very simple reason. Because I can make bank transfers in Finland." The story is numbered three. Long ago I met a member of the board of a company resident in Latvia. Most of the production of this company was traded and traded to the former Soviet Union countries. This businessman represents the company, which also served the bank resident in Latvia - SEB Bank (I can name). And he's got his account closed. He's got a message coming... not for him personally, but for the company to close the account (a large company known in Latvia), saying: “No, we already have no claims against you. We already have no claims against you. We simply cost you very much to monitor, because we need to monitor each transaction. We could give the credit, but you better open the account somewhere else." They opened an account in Estonia. These are numerous examples. Yes, the fourth example. My spouse studied in addition to chemistry, and one of the best chemical teachers carried out a transfer of €15 and entered the word “Cuba libre” in the details of the transaction. Her account was temporarily blocked for a month as a suspicious issue of terrorism because the word “Cuba” was mentioned, although the purpose was completely different, why “Cuba libre” was entered. I think many people understand why it was recorded there... at this payment target. This is what our banking system is doing today, and it is also largely the responsibility of those who monitor, including Mrs Znotiņa. Our financial system has been destroyed. If you can, combine the times...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U747	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U748	Our financial system has been destroyed, and it has been destroyed by the capital repairs of the financial system, just as many years ago the Unity with structural reforms in fact made the Republic of Latvia uncompetitive. And that is how we are getting poorer and poorer as years go. As a result of the repair of the financial system's capital, most of the money in the financial system was transferred not to Russia, not to China, but to any third country, but to the Member States of the European Union. That money simply passed into the other economies of the European Union. We destroyed a commercial bank in Latvia, and the employees of this bank work strictly right here in Europe - Luxembourg, Liechtenstein - and receive a lot of salaries and spend money there. We have destroyed virtually everything that can be destroyed in Latvia. And then we are surprised that our economy is lagging behind our closest neighbours - Lithuania and Estonia. By the way, speaking about Lithuania, it is easier to open accounts in Lithuania than in Latvia, because opening bank accounts in Latvia is an impossible mission. Then there is the service that the nation is talking about in a very simple matter, that you have to pay anyway and so that you get back anyway and so on. In fact, this service is referred to as a racket for legal entrepreneurs, a legal racket, a reiderism. The businessman shall be deprived of the money and may be reinstated for a certain amount of consideration when he goes to certain lawyers. That is the reality of life. It is allowed by law enforcement authorities, and it is known by all the knowledgeable, fine Riga society. That is what happens in real life. I will vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U749	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U750	I guess I'll ask you to unite the times.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U751	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U752	Dear colleagues, Ladies and gentlemen! Unfair businessmen, people, and so on... Legal and private persons, of course, must be punished, caught, illegal cash flows through Latvia must be stopped. Clearly, we had arrived in one ditch, relying on, as we say, the inviolable... how to paint the reputation of a good bank manager and so on. It's not... That was the time to act. The question is, how do we act, whether we go after those who commit such frauds? That's one method. And the other method is to decide that everyone is cheating. Like Pinochet. Collect everyone in the stadium and then decide which of those who have been healed is perhaps not such a big fool and is licked out. If ever a bank account... Everyone remembers the times when we had bank accounts, and if the bank service started to become uninteresting, we told the intermediaries in the bank that we would immediately replace the bank. Now people are happy that they have one account and are ready to pay any payments for the elementary transfer so that it will continue to exist. When it all got such a special tow, I'm out of the fisher... According to the Saeima, one businessman who, by the way, was mentioned today in a speech by President Levite and is the head of the Employers' Confederation of Latvia... Andris Bite said: “Listen, the level reached is that I’m required to justify transactions with Aldi and Lidl networks. I produce products, and I have to put five people down every day, who justify why I sell my products “Aldi” and “Lidl”.” But three days later he said, “I don’t worry about it anymore, because now I’m starting to ask for justification for transactions with the Treasury.” So the State Treasury of Latvia is suspected and suspicious transactions are tax payments between the company and the State Treasury. For today's vote and what... and how to vote. There is, of course, a hot debate, various arguments, here in the backstages. One of the arguments I have heard is: well, now you don't have to blame one person, one institution. I completely agree, it is certainly not a matter for one institution; it is some global action, an amount that has let us in an absolutely second ditch. If any of those who have participated in this process came here today and said that we were making an effort, we did something wrong, we are correcting it or we have corrected it, we will correct the situation, and we will admit some mistake, some tactical error, maybe too much political pressure on the fact that the fix, the fix, all must be locked... No, in principle, everything has been very correct and must be continued. I did not say to anyone who voted for Mrs Znotiņa at the time. I would probably also have voted in favour if there were no other - better, I know - candidacy. I'm not a huge specialist on those issues either, but some time has passed. In my opinion, we can begin to assess whether we want to sit in such a ditch for the next five years. There is a specific responsibility here for this institution and for the manager, and that responsibility is called... under the heading ‘Typologies and features of money laundering’ issued by the Financial Intelligence Agency. I will give you just a few examples. In principle, any businessman who has opened a business hit at least (I count on its top)... at least six will signify the same fact that he has a company, he is suspected. I will not count everything I have written about 50 interesting ones, but I do not have such a long period of debate. I'll read some. First... They divide into signs A, B, C, D. The first is the sign of A1. ‘ Information of a negative nature publicly available on the persons involved in the transaction (e.g. true beneficiaries, authorised persons, members of the board, legal persons).’ Sandis Riekstins, for example, runs the company, and I am his competitor. As you all understand, especially in politics, it is not too difficult to create negative information in public space. And he's a suspect right now. ‘ The company’s website shows that there is no economic activity.’ Interesting to say that it's going to be done, well, we're making invoices there or otherwise... ‘For example, the website has not been updated for a long time and the goods indicated therein are not sold, exist or services are not provided.’ There is no detailed description of what is, if the website is not, but if it is and if the website contains, for example, some or one opening with the company logo, well, there is no... This does not indicate any economic activity of the assets, of course. The essence of the website has long since become obsolete. But that is not all, of course. Is A17 - “Publicly available information that individuals are related to companies that regularly win public procurement”. So if you've won a public procurement, for example, about building a prison in Liepaja, you're a suspect. Especially if you're still in communication with him, even if you haven't won there, you're also suspected, that's how we... It's, of course... This is, by the way, the most logical thing if we take separate purchases, it really shows. But it may be that it is not quite right. I'm not going to miss a long time anymore. Just a few more. A, “a legal person with an account in Latvia carries out the payment of representation and hospitality expenses, which may be linked to the promotion of economic activities abroad, in particular in relations with business officials of foreign institutions”. I will give one example. Food producers travel to international exhibitions. They're doing this on their stand, it's their job. All of them are suspects. And finally, what's more to me. B30 - ‘Payments made by a legal person do not correspond to the registered nature of the entity’. I thought you were running a big company... what you should record in your activities if you suddenly decided to buy new waste bins... They are, of course, not described in your economic activity. And so on, and so on. Another very suspicious sign was that you have several accounts and you are coordinating between accounts. I think it is rare, of course, so many accounts do not exist, but everyone with several accounts - they probably coordinate the difference between their accounts.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U753	Thank you. Thank you, the joint debate is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U754	Thank you. I call, of course, for a vote to be taken against the following...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U755	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U756	Dear colleagues, It was interesting to listen to this debate from our colleagues. However, I would urge you here to take the issue very seriously and remember the role of this person we are voting on today and why these issues have arisen at all. I thought... Here it was criticised that our entrepreneurs - and that is the fact - are choosing other Member States of the European Union, where to build their own businesses, where to maintain their actual business addresses, despite being active in our country. All this, in my view, is the sole personal responsibility of the head of government that he has failed to achieve the implementation of these common principles in all the Member States of the European Union, wherever we are in the context of the single market. If we are not able to achieve this, then the previous speaker is absolutely right: we are in unequal conditions of competition, absolutely with all these requirements. There are a number of cases that we have heard about quite absurd situations. I join Mr Gobzem - it's true, it's stupid for you to have your account frozen for EUR 30, that something has happened... If this is the case, it is not normal. But in this case, we all remember the situation in 2018, in what situation Latvia was... and what situation it is in today. The only thing we could blame is that we don't come... and on the part of the government, also from the same service, there is no analysis on the part of the Bank of Latvia and no legislative initiatives to prevent these absurdities. There is a series of absurd things that I think are a matter of dialogue, discussions, and whatever is blaming here, the Saeima itself is responsible for all these absurd things. Prior to that, the Saeima approved Ms Znotiņa's position, but then passed all the laws and regulations that oblige the institutions responsible to do so. No one else. The Saeima is the Saeima, which approved this government. Government that adopted the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. The family that gave the government a mandate to do so. They are the ones who have created these conditions. And we ourselves are those who can talk about something we don't like, but at the same time we can encourage something to be changed. At this point... The overhaul of the financial market is, in our view, an example of cooperation that we work together (not only in words, but also in works) with our strategic partners. And in this case, if we see that most of this money is of Russian origin, illegal money that has been arrested in huge amounts in Latvia, of course, it is a huge concern that I would like to release this money in some way... but I regard it as such a common achievement. The failure is that we allow this money to lie down in other Member States of the European Union. But this vote, in my view, will be more a vote on whether we trust our strategic partners, whether we trust them not only in words, but also in actions and concrete votes. The Group of the Greens/ Farmers' Union has discussed this issue. And it is precisely with the aim of establishing closer cooperation with our strategic partners in the United States, which encouraged all these capital repairs... We should not continue to be blind, we will have to work with them, we will have to work together to ensure that this financial system is well-ordered, cleaned, and we must come up with initiatives from Members, from the service, to improve this order and to get rid of these absurd situations. It's in our own hands. I call for support for this decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U757	Thank you. Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U758	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, No one will protect our country, no one will build it (Interface). As far as we're concerned. Nobody! If we do not stand for our own country, for our own economy, for our own financial sector, no one will do it for us. Colleagues, if we are talking specifically about the Financial Intelligence Service, about its activities since it is led by Mrs. Ilze Znotiņa... we can look at this time section, these five years as Latvia has gone compared to Lithuania or Estonia. For example, how many licences have been issued in the financial sector to promote competitiveness, so that people have the choice of who to choose, so that entrepreneurs have the choice of who to choose? We are lagging behind both countries. How many Latvian entrepreneurs - small, medium-sized - also have private accounts abroad? You know that? ( The box “No! ”) ) Even in a small sector - direct purchase (I am involved in such - we are buying products directly from farmers) - each of the other small farmers has an account in Ireland. They have closed accounts here or have problems opening them, or the commissions are just disproportionately high. Is that right? Colleagues, that's what we want? The financial sector is one of the cornerstones of our economy. In the end, Colleagues Smith mentioned this methodology as well. It is no longer unreadable, it is publicly available information that the banks are leading. And if you talk to the banks... Yes, we can say that it is the FCTC or it is the legislator, but talk to banking specialists. They say no, we simply have a sin to answer the question that we have to answer... we do not keep this risk analysis; we better close all those accounts for you. This is a big problem. We remember the time when we called Western-oriented entrepreneurs away from these aggressor countries, both from Belarus and from Ukraine. How many of them finished their activities... chose to stay either in Lithuania or Estonia, and how - in Latvia? We have also heard these statistics from this very parliamentary troupe. And one of the basic reasons - they can't open an account here. Base case - account! Many others have also spoken about this, including the big businessmen of Unity on television, that there is already a problem with opening a basic account at the moment. And when we talked to both these representatives of the financial sector and people of various sectors, in the end this goes... Neither the FCTC, nor even the Bank of Latvia, nor the commercial banks due to internal risk requirements, has the name Ilze Znotiņa at the end. We can continue in this way for the next five years - our backwardness will be even greater. If we want to stand for our own country, we have to stand for our own country, not wait for anyone else to speak to others. Just as a strong country. If we stand for it ourselves, others will also support us. I call for the 'no' vote. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U759	Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U760	Hello, colleagues! Dear Chairman of the Saeima. I think what we are debating here is what Ilze Znotiņa and the Financial Intelligence Service have a direct responsibility at all. We are talking about banks, and the bank supervisor in Latvia has so far been the FCTC. In the future it will be this joint institution in the Bank of Latvia. In fact, I think that it is in the direction of the FCTC that most of these accusations should be directed at - it monitors and follows the work of the banks and also the misunderstandings that banks are introducing. I have already mentioned as an example when I met with the representative of the FCMC so far on the banking board and pointed out that one area that they have definitively damaged by bureaucracy is the kroying companies. I assume that what you, fellow Members, say is this bureaucracy, these pointless decisions. We must be able to distinguish whether the Znotina Authority - the Financial Intelligence Service - is directly dealing with what they are supposed to do. And I think they're doing. The money that has been criminalised, which is being put into circulation... Do you really think that you might not see anything from this criminal money? As an example, I remember the accusations of our strategic partners that money is transferred through Latvian banks, which goes further to North Korea, where missiles, ballistic missiles, which fly with each moment to go further and further. Do we want money to be washed away through Latvia, for which weapons are being prepared and people killed? The same amount of money could have been available in the Russian military industry complex as well. Do you want to take responsibility that we, with our Saeima votes, help the Russian occupations in Ukraine to kill people? I don't want to, I'm against. That is why I believe that we need to monitor this cash flow. At the same time, what my colleagues have said is very important. And we need to adopt appropriate laws here so that in future, the Bank of Latvia and also the financial supervisors of banks really approach our citizens, entrepreneurs so that they can work normally so that they do not have to open accounts in other countries, because this really happens, and if we, Members and the government, do nothing, then it will. And I want to say that we also need to listen to business organisations. I have not heard that large and small business organisations would have objections to Mrs Znotiņa. That is why I say once again: we are voting for the dirty money not to go through Latvia, so that the dirty money does not serve the occupations and kill people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U761	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U762	I would remind you that the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption supported the appointment of Ilze Znotiņa as Head of the Financial Intelligence Service. I call on the Saeima to vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U763	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the appointment of Ilze Znotiņa as Head of the Financial Intelligence Service! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 33, against - 41, refraining - 4. The draft decision is therefore rejected. (Applause) Draft decision “On the approval of Jautrite Briede as a Judge of the Constitutional Court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U764	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, During the meeting of the Legal Commission on 14 June, the draft decision “On the approval of Jautrite Briede as a Judge of the Constitutional Court” was reviewed. The Constitutional Court has seven judges. According to Article 4 of the Constitutional Court Law, judges are approved by the Saeima: three judges of the Constitutional Court are approved on the proposal of not less than 10 members of the Saeima, two - on the proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers and two - on the proposal of the Plenary of the Supreme Court. The term of office of a judge of the Constitutional Court shall be 10 years. 10 Members of the Saeima have nominated the candidacy of Ms Briede. It is necessary to approve a new judge of the Constitutional Court, because on 23 May this year the powers of a judge of the Constitutional Court expired Daiga Rezevska, who was approved in the position of a judge on a proposal from members of the Saeima. Jautrite Briede has a degree in law obtained at the University of Latvia. Since 2004 she is Senator of the Department of Administrative Cases of the Senate of the Supreme Court. Since 2009 - Associate Professor at the Department of State Law of the Faculty of Law of the University of Latvia. He also worked at the Riga Law University, the Ministry of National Reform, the State Administration Reform Office, the State Human Rights Office, the School of the State Administration. Jautrite Briede is the author and co-author of two monographs, comments of the Satversme and comments of the Administrative Procedure Law, as well as many scientific publications. Jautrite Briede is a cavalier of the Order of Three Stars, as well as awarded with the Honorary Mark of the II level of the System of Justice. The Law “On Judicial Power” provides that the Council for the Judiciary shall give an opinion to the Saeima on candidates for the position of a judge of the Constitutional Court. On 10 June of this year, the Council for the Judiciary, based on professional authority and achievements in the professional field, contributed to the development of the legal system, the professional and personal reputation of available information, the vision of the place of the Constitutional Court and the role in the country, decided to recognise the candidacy of Jautrite Briede as suitable for the position of a judge of the Constitutional Court. On 14 June, the Members of the Legal Commission listened to Jautrite Briede’s vision of the role and further development of the Constitutional Court. All relevant institutions have provided answers confirming the compliance of Jautrite Briede with the position of a judge of the Constitutional Court. The Legal Commission also found that the candidate for the position of a judge of the Constitutional Court meets the requirements of the position of a judge of the Constitutional Court laid down in the Law of the Constitutional Court. When nine Members voted in favour and two Members did not vote, the Legal Commission decided to direct consideration in the Saeima of the draft decision “On the approval of Jautrite Briede as a Judge of the Constitutional Court”. Pursuant to Article 85 of the Satversme, judges of the Constitutional Court are approved by the Saeima by a majority of not less than 51 votes of the Saeima member, therefore, on behalf of the Legal Commission, I invite to decide on draft decision “On the approval of Jautrite Briede as a judge of the Constitutional Court”. The decision is expected to enter into force on 1 September 2022. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U765	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U766	Hello, Mister Briede! You were my teacher, and you were a good teacher. , but there are some details that I want to say before you are approved or not. These details are not related to your professional knowledge. These details are related to changes in how candidates for the post are selected at the Constitutional Court. Since the famous judgment of your colleague Sanita Osipova, which in my opinion was outside the powers of the Constitutional Court, the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court has become, I would not say, politicised, but it has become dependent on our ideological views on one particular issue. It is important for some of the society, including me, to understand whether our Constitutional Court is a conservative value that reads in the Constitution what is written there, whether it is liberal, I would say, frivola, a value that reads in the Constitution what is not written there. Today, when voting for you, the Latvian Parliament should choose once again whether we are inclined to that direction, as has recently been the case that the law of one university – the University of Latvia – is becoming judges of the Constitutional Court... Faculty - one of the lecturers. And then the question arises in the political discussion whether the Constitutional Court is such as an appendix and a subordination to this faculty or vice versa - this faculty is the appropriate subordination of the Constitutional Court. And this should not, in fact, be the case. My human problem lies in the fact (that is why I am also in the treble) that from a professional point of view I have no doubt about your knowledge, but from a political point of view and from a political context, I cannot accept a direction that makes the Constitutional Court a politicised institution in which the Constitutional Court departs from legal decisions and begins to make political decisions, as your colleague did. That is why I voted 'yes' or 'no' or 'no' today... If you do not vote for your candidacy, it will be crucial. I allow some of my colleagues to have a similar problem. If you, my teacher, are elected, I would like to ask you and call on you not to be like my other teacher who intervened in the political process. There may be a variety of ideas in the political process - some may like gay marriages, others may not like gay marriages - but let us be fair from a legal point of view: we as lawyers are absolutely clear that gay marriages are not recorded in the Constitution. There is no word in any Article of the Satversme about gay marriage. And the Constitutional Court can only translate what is written in the Constitution and not what is not written in the Constitution. ( Intercretion: Vote!) ) Good luck to you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U767	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? None. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the approval of Jautrite Briede as a Constitutional Court Judge”! Please vote mode! Please the result! (Applause) - 82, against - 3, refrains - not. Thank you. voting arrangements! Please get the result! - 82, against - 3, refrains - not. Thank you. Congratulations! Congratulations to the judge of the Constitutional Court Jautrite Briede! Dear colleagues, indeed, we all congratulate the new judge of the Constitutional Court! We're going on. Draft decision on the appointment of Mr. Janis Cielen of the Saeima Member to the Education, Culture and Science Commission. Please call me! I'm sorry... Draft decision on the withdrawal of Mr. John Cielen of the Saeima Member from the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of Mr. Janis Cielen of the Saeima Member from the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Draft decision on the appointment of Mr. Janis Cielen of the Saeima Member to the Education, Culture and Science Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the appointment of the Saeima Member Jānis Cielen in the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Draft decision “On Release of the Judge of Daugavpils Court Vita Lāčplēsis from the position of a judge”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U768	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, At the meeting of the Legal Commission of Saeima on 15 June, the draft decision “On the dismissal of the judge Vita Lāčplpe from the office of a judge of Daugavpils” was reviewed. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I am inviting to release Vita Lāčrupe, a judge of Daugavpils court from the office of a judge at his own wish from July 1, 2022.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U769	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On Release of Vita Lāčplupe, Judge of Daugavpils court from the office of a judge”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. And the draft decision “On the dismissal of the judge of Latgale Regional Court from the position of a judge”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U770	During the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 15 June, the draft decision “On the dismissal of Ilga Zalužinska of the judge of Latgale regional court from the office of a judge” was reviewed. In 1981 Ilga Zalužinska graduated from the University of Latvia, obtaining the qualification of a lawyer. In 1986 she was elected judge of the Rēzekne District Court. In 1995, the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia approved Ilga Zaluzinska as a judge of Latgale Regional Court. On 18 January 2018, the Judicial Qualification Board evaluated the professional activity of judge Zalužinska positively. Awards awarded to the judge Zaluzinska: 2006 - Grade II Recognition of the Ministry of Justice and silver hair for exemplary performance of duties; 2015 - Grade I Recognition of the Ministry of Justice and gold feathers for a significant contribution to the development of the judicial system of Latvia and long-term and self-free work. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I would like to thank the judge for her fair and professional work and call on the judge of Latgale Regional Court, Ilga Zaluzinska, to be released from the office of the judge at his own wish, on 16 September 2022. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U771	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the dismissal of Ilga Zalužinskas, a judge of Latgale Regional Court from office of a judge”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Go on. Treatment of requests by Members Requests received by Members. Dear colleagues, The request of Members Viktors Valaiņa, Ulda Augulis, Armands Krauze, Gundars Dauges, Janina Jalinska, Edgars Tatars, Māra Kučinska, Jānis Vucanas, Jānis Dūklavs and Raimonds Bergmanis to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “On the readiness of Prime Minister A. K. Kariņš to ensure a continuous and cost-effective energy supply to Latvian economy and residents” has been received. Name for Member Viktor Valainis' motivation.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U772	Dear colleagues, We would like to clarify with this request the various things that have been voiced in the public space and which ask questions. However, in this case, we do not want to ask only questions. We demand that the Head of Government provide clear information both on what is waiting for us in the autumn, on what our options are, and on what motivation is to choose these two directions - in Riga and Skulte - regarding the further development of the LNG terminal. We are primarily interested in the question of why we have been rejected... and beyond, neither Liepaja nor Ventspils direction, about which... I think there has already been a pretty serious study of both. And in this requested information, we look forward to concrete answers. It also seems very incomprehensible to us how it can be that we... As if we are planning to buy liquefied natural gas from this Klaipeda terminal, but if its information is true, then... we would like to hear from the government an explanation of why this natural gas is purchased through intermediaries (through intermediaries!) , not directly, in cooperation with the Lithuanian Government, the Ministry of Economics and making use of our own opportunities. Colleagues, we call for these clarifications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U773	Thank you. Consequently, we shall refer the request to the Requesting Commission. On the agenda - under the heading ‘Handling draft laws’. Draft law “Amendments to the law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Normunds Gunna.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U774	Hello, colleagues! The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs has prepared for the first reading the draft law drafted by the Commission itself “Amendments to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance”. The law is necessary to transpose the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on work-life balance for parents and carers by providing for paternity leave and, consequently, the payment of paternity benefit for 10 working days (currently set at 10 calendar days). These amendments are also compatible with those contained in the draft law on "Amendments to Labour Law". The law also includes norms aimed at complying with the judgement of the Constitutional Court of 12 November 2020 and harmonising the norms of the law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance” with the necessary amendments to the Labour Law, which provides: if the paternity of the child is not recognised or established, then another person, other than the mother of the child, will have the right to 10 working days of leave in order to engage in child care at the request of the mother of the child. The law is foreseen to enter into force on 1 August 2022. Colleagues, I call for this draft law to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U775	Members have not applied to speak about urgency. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U776	I invite you to support the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance” at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U777	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U778	I call for support to be given to the draft law at second reading without re-examination by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U779	Do Members have objections (Interface: Yes!) ) against the examination of the draft law at second reading without re-examination by the commission responsible? And the objections. In such a case, please set a time limit for the proposals and the time for the hearing at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U780	Time-limit for the submission of proposals for second reading - 10 minutes. And second reading - Saeima meeting on 16 June.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U781	So the deadline for submitting proposals... Well, let's say, at 12.10. The deadline for submitting proposals is 16 June at 12.10. Review - Saeima on 16 June this year. Thank you. The second reading of the draft law “On the ban on exhibiting and dismantling of objects famous for Soviet and Nazi regimes in the territory of the Republic of Latvia”. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Ritvars Jansons.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U782	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Highly respected Members and honourable Members! The Commission for Education, Culture and Science has examined and prepared for the second, final, reading draft law “On the prohibition of the exhibition of objects famous for Soviet and Nazi regimes and their dismantling in the territory of the Republic of Latvia”. The second reading of the draft law received proposals from Members, Ministers and the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, as well as the commission formed its own proposals. 1. - the proposal by Member Mednes to extend the scope of the law, supplemented by changes in street names. In the Commission, the proposal was not supported, as the Commission decided that the change of street names would be seen in the opening of this new law so as to develop as soon as possible a framework for bans and dismantling of objects.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U783	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Linda Medne.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U784	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima and colleagues! For the second reading of this draft law, I have submitted a number of proposals to the Education, Culture and Science Commission to substantially extend the scope of this law. The proposals were not supported by the Commission. I will not request a vote. And I'll explain why. The essence of my proposals was to complement this draft law so that it would address the elimination of the Communist heritage of Latvia on a much broader scale. Conservatives, like many other patriots in Latvia, are inexplicable as, in the 21st century, when the third world war, which is essentially Nazi Russia's beginnings, we can afford to be moderate in our attitude towards occupation famous monuments and street names. I am well aware of the importance of the particular law, and therefore I do not want to insist on the vote in order not to make difficult the main objective of this draft law, which is to be viewed as a matter of urgency, - the removal of occupation monuments in public outdoors in Latvia until 11 November 2022, because it would be a very beautiful gift to our national holiday. But my colleagues and I will continue to take part in the work so that other objects of communist heritage, from which we had to be able to get rid of for a long time, will be defined by law and overshadowed forever. I do not request a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U785	Thank you. Name to Member Karl Shadursky.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U786	President-in-Office. Dear colleagues, I, like Mrs Mednes, will not request a vote. Mr Janson said that street names should be considered in another opening of this law. I have a slightly different view: I believe that the essentially solution to the issue of street names is already contained in Article 3 of the draft law, which refers to "other objects". And from the context of this paragraph and from the point of view of the purpose of the whole law, it is quite clear that now... The principle of the Communist totalitarian regime, enshrined in the Constitution, already presupposes that it is necessary to disappear from official local names to praise the troops of the Soviet occupation and their ideological propaganda. The wording of Article 3 of the draft law, ‘other objects’ meeting the criteria of the article, clearly indicates that street names of Latvian cities, such as ‘Detlava Brantkalna iela’, ‘Staraja Rusas iela’ (also called two streets in Riga), as well as similar street names, must disappear. Mrs Mednes, on the other hand... Proposal No 5... the above paragraph 4, which is included here... Well, I guess one of the next proposals... it would, in principle, narrow the scope of the law. This proposal is therefore not acceptable. But, honourable colleagues, it is absolutely clear that the committee responsible is rejecting this proposal... either with the knowledge that the matter will be considered in more detail in the future, or with the knowledge that it has already been resolved and the municipalities that will be the performers of this law must act in accordance, for example, with the introductory spirit of the Satversme... There is already a tool for this action to be taken so that all names that praise the Soviet or Nazi regime, the persons and events associated with it disappear completely and irreversibly from the public space. Consequently, this proposal is not necessary, in my view, in this law. But in general, the law is... I would like to call on the committee responsible, which has worked very responsibly and successfully with this draft law. Today, in fact, we are going to do an extremely good job that we should have done a long time ago.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U787	I closed the debate. The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U788	The proposal was not supported by the Commission and Members do not ask for a vote on it.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U789	Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U790	2. - the proposal from Member Mednes. As the task of this law is also to determine the process of renaming the streets, but as I said, it was decided in the Commission that this process of renaming the streets will still be decided in relation to this law. Consequently, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U791	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U792	I think that this is the “essential” issue, which in general is the 13th issue. A family is possible. So Parliament before the heating season... will rename streets in Latvia as a matter of urgency. This will certainly reduce the prices of granules. If we rename Riga streets, then I allow the gas prices to go down. If the streets of Rezekne are renamed, then I allow the fuel prices to return to pre-crisis conditions. And that's the spirit. I think it's vibrating with those flags and foreheads... At a time when people have to solve real life problems, when people are worried about how they will wait for the next winter, the next heating season, and are already standing in rows after granules (they become twice every week and three times every week... And 10 times... I don't know, it's about to be a hundred times more expensive), taking around street names is, to put it mildly, just stupid. This time, while we change the names of the street, we would have spent together thinking and accepting... By the way, today is the question of how to give a discount on the price of fuel. That would be a much more important issue, which Mrs Mednes would have had to fight for, in my opinion, it would have been worth getting up on the platform. Just such a little replica. In Latvia, during the last 30 years, no decision has yet been made to worship idolatry... The fight against the imaginary opponent - street names - has not brought welfare to Latvian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U793	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U794	2. - Mrs Mednes' proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U795	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U796	3. - Mr Kirštein's proposal. It is stated that objects should also be dismantled in the burial sites of soldiers who have died in war, as well as in the memorial sites of the victims of the Soviet or Nazi terror, if the weapons of the Soviet armed forces are represented there. Representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs were heard in the Commission, who indicated that the inviolability of burial sites of fallen Soviet soldiers was regulated by an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the status of burials of Latvia in the territory of the Russian Federation and the status of burials of Russia in the territory of the Republic of Latvia. Therefore, both burials and related facilities are inviolable. The Commission did not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U797	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U798	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Honourable Members! I would like to touch on precisely the tomb issue because this week... all of us are aware of the screaming event in Jēkabpils when persons... control... Officials from the municipality of Jēkabpils and the so-called search unit in fact demolished the grave, burial site in Jēkabpils. ( Internouncing call.) In my opinion, this case is incompatible with European values and shows a clear disrespect for the memory of the Second World War. ( Internouncing call.) A number of our group are currently considering addressing the Office of the Prosecutor General with the question of whether these works are compatible with the rule of law. In my opinion, this is just about legal nihilism.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U799	I closed the debate. For the Commission, please... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U800	3. - Mr Kirstein's proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U801	Members shall not object. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Vote? Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - Mr Kirstein's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 12, for - 62, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U802	4. - the proposal from Member Mednes. It is stated that objects can be demonstrated in state accredited museums or private museums with which the Latvian Occupational Museum has concluded a cooperation agreement, and it is prohibited to keep specific street names. The Commission discussed the issue of exhibition and concluded that when the object came into the collection of the Museum of Occupation of Latvia, the museum can deposit the object to another museum without a cooperation agreement. The Commission also created a new... Article 9 of the law, as reflected in proposal 30. The third part of this section states that the Museum of Occupation of Latvia may deposit original parts or fragments of dismantled objects in its collection to a state, municipality or private accredited museum. In view of these circumstances, as well as the fact that the Commission will still look at the change in street names, Mrs Mednes' proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U803	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U804	5. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Janson, which allows objects to be exhibited only in accredited museums. This means that here is the state control over the exhibition of objects, because accredited museums are regularly accredited in the accreditation processes to be carried out according to the procedure established by state regulatory enactments. And these museums carry out both research, exhibition and stock maintenance work. And so these objects are controlled from the state as well. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U805	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U806	6. - the proposal from Member Mednes. The Member constructs Section 4 of the Law so that it defines not only the objects to be dismantled, but also the streets to be renamed. Rejected by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U807	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U808	7. - Mr Kirštein's proposal. Contrary to the first reading, all the objects to be dismantled shall be defined in the first paragraph of Article 4. This proposal is linked to 8. - Mr Kirstein's proposal. The Commission is not supported because... In this case, the possibility to decide on objects to the Cabinet of Ministers is excluded. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U809	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U810	8 / 8 - Mr Kirštein's proposal. Provides for this possibility - to decide on objects for the Cabinet of Ministers - to exclude from the draft law. The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U811	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U812	9. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Janson. The provision of the law on dismantling rules shall be supplemented. Partially supported, included 15 and 30. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U813	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U814	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. A clarification of the laser scanning of objects. Partially supported, included 15. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U815	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U816	11. - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr Indrickson. Provision shall be made for the municipality to carry out the dismantling of objects by its own means or to instruct its institution or capital company to do so without the need to register in the register of construction cooperatives. Partly supported by the Commission, includes 19. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U817	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U818	12. - Member Asheraden's proposal to include parts or fragments of objects in the collection of the Museum of Occupation of Latvia and to deposit them with other museums. Partially supported, included 30. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U819	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U820	13. - Mr Valaina's proposal. Demolition of facilities shall be provided no later than 23 August 2022. The Commission was not supported as the Commission already at first reading supported the implementation of the dismantling of sites by 15 November of this year at the latest. This date as the later date of dismantling of the monument of Pārdaugava was underlined by the Riga City Council.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U821	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U822	Dear colleagues, Already at the time of the adoption of this draft law at first reading, I was moved from this troupe that this deadline, when this deadline enters into force, should be shorter than the deadline of 15 November currently set by the law. Colleagues, this date, which I offer, is deeply symbolic. It is symbolic that on this very day - 23 August - two powers decided the fate of our country of Latvia. And this monument is also built, to a large extent, on the basis of the creation of this treaty. Colleagues, I would not very much like questions about this monument - whether or not to be - to be on the political agenda on 14. Saeima for the elections. In my view, these discussions must come to an end, just as this monument must cease to exist in the summer. I propose that it be set in this law on a deep symbolic date - 23 August - and that it should take place until that date. Colleagues, I call for support for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U823	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U824	Colleagues! There are local governments which, without any law, remove all these occupations from their territory. There are people who are ready to act and pour these occupations into the Daugava, free of charge. And there is the Riga City Council - those who need a special law that gives their municipality police protection to these occupations. We, I think, had to break down yesterday, as a minimum, all these small occupations, located at Kisezer, Jugla and elsewhere. Here is a proposal to do this demolition by August 23, which is the day of the memory of the victims of Stalinism and Nazism. It would be very correct, symbolicly, that already on this date no more be a laudable object of the Soviet Union. But I understand that someone might be concerned that something can't be done, somewhere... needs long commissions, money needs to be learned, and so on. In the worst case, support the next proposal, which is scheduled for 15 September. Now we don't pull these processes. We don't pull these processes long! We have examples that municipalities can, if they want to, and there are examples that municipalities that do not want to, look for a hundred and one excuse why something cannot be done. I call for support for the shortest possible time limits so that these Soviet ghosts disappear as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U825	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U826	Colleagues, I would also call on the National Association to stop playing theatre. The national association is in this government and also in a coalition at the Riga Council. Well, if you wanted to, you without all those decisions... Take it down and just take it off the monument, not you'll make it some kind of political game out of the podium! Now take it and just do it, not just decide! You decide, then you decide again... Every week you decide something. Take it and do it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U827	Name to Member Janis Dombrava for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U828	I would like to say to Mr Gobzem that the presence of the National Association in the Riga City Council is not something... It goes without saying. If we cannot fulfil the conditions of our programme, then there will not be any need for presence in such a coalition, talking about Riga City Council.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U829	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U830	For the Commission - Mr Valaiņa's proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U831	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 13. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 20, for - 60, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U832	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Member's Dealer. Demolition of facilities shall be foreseen by 15 September 2022 at the latest. In the Commission, the proposal was not supported as the Commission had already supported, at first reading, the implementation of the dismantling of sites by 15 November of this year at the latest. And with this date, the majority of the commission remained.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U833	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, John Isal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U834	Hello, colleagues! My proposal is to remove - within three months of this day - all the occupations left in Latvia where the municipalities have not yet gone to remove them. This, in my opinion, is enough time to be done with any such object, including the object in Pārdaugava. It is the most favorable time of the year for construction, and therefore also for demolition works. And on the practical implementation, in my opinion, there should be no doubt whether this is possible. However, this vote is also a vote on whether we will all go to the voters on 1 October with the work that has been done - with the occupations that have been destroyed all over Latvia - or with the current, perhaps empty promises that those who may vote against this proposal do not intend to do at all. ( Independence: “Aha! ” ) I therefore call on all those who really want to demolish the occupations in Latvia to do so until the elections, supporting my proposal and not once again go to the voters with promises that... I personally do not have one hundred percent faith that they will be fulfilled if the deadline is after the elections. I call on you to support my proposal to dismantle all the occupations by 15 September. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U835	Name to Member Aigar Bikšem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U836	Dear colleagues, I would like to say that any action must be reasonable and any deadlines must be reasonable. And, like any question, we, as Members of the Saeima, consulted those competent people... Those who understand how such objects have been created and also understand how such objects can be dismantled or dismantled. In the Commission we also heard the opinion of the Artists' Union of Latvia; they explain that such an object... Well, in this case we are talking about this big object in Riga... However, these are planning works and those that are necessary to dismantle this object in a respectful way... and I want to say, in a respectful way, because it is Latvian, let's say it... This big woman's image - it's the work of a Latvian sculptor... And, of course, it has no place in these political conditions, it has no place in the heart of Riga city, but it has a place in the Latvian cultural space and one of the museums of Latvia. And in this case, the Museum of Occupation of Latvia will decide how it will be exhibited and further exhibited. I want to say that... I understand, of course, the emotional tension that we are currently experiencing, and also in society, but I just want to say that often we, as a society, have acted very carelessly by removing something, removing it, damaging it, and never doing so in cultural history, have not paid off. We would be very happy if there were less burned Catholic sculptures after the Lutheran reform in Riga. Likewise, many years later, when Russia will no longer be a scare to our society, we will look at these objects and they will be interesting cultural and historical objects about which society will say that we have taken them with our attention (Interview.) and respect. Thank you. I call on you not to support this offer and to support what is... November Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U837	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U838	It's always with that urtrapathy and with the flags. Mr. Bikše, I think that your mayor from the Parish is in the Riga City Council. It's going to be all down. It's going to be... It's just... it's all falling apart... He'll do everything. Nothing. The national association, too, will be there, everything will be there. Nothing again. And now in the Saeima every week, in order to be able to hold a discussion, not to talk about issues that are really important for Latvian society, namely how to feed families in these superinflations, supercrisis conditions, when people don't know what to do in the autumn... makes pictures from shops, how prices are rising every day... will now talk about it every week, whether it is mixed or not, how much plans you need there, how much plans you don't need there. Those who understand something from construction know very clearly that there is no huge need for plans, especially if they are to design, dismantle and so on. If I wanted to, it would have been a long time ago. No one actually... As I said in my first speech on this subject: how I stand here: nothing will be dismantled at those times that colleagues have talked about with foam on their lips. And I was right. Of course, nothing will be destroyed either. The discussion will be maintained. Dear pensioners, residents of Latvia, patriots of Latvia! You need to understand that this debate is simply being maintained, so that there is no socio-economic issue, so that there is no question of people's well-being. And then this theme, which is also being grounded all the time - every week in the morning to the evening. Well, in such a typical bureaucratic sauce, it's spoken, but it's not done. If you are so brave, take it and take it off! This week. By Sunday at 12 noon. You are all in one coalition at the end - both in the Riga City Council and in the country. What's the problem with you? Jedanook is preventing you from tearing down those monuments or Rubik? Who? Who is it? ( Milestones.) It's your own will! In fact, you are disturbed by your own fear or by your own duality, realizing that then you will not have to talk about what to talk about until the elections, because then you will have to talk about how people buy granules, how people buy gas, how people buy chips, how to pay for electricity, how to pay for water, which becomes more expensive. ( We have floods, but water becomes more expensive.) How to pay for food in stores, how to index pensions. By the way, teachers are right here at the Saeima. How to pay teachers - then we will have to talk about it. But you don't want to talk about it. I want to talk about stones, about flags. All flags have been set up by this flank, except for Latvia. ( Milestones.) They don't even know how the Latvian flag looks, Latvia has been sold for a long time... they have. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Depp. J. Pouce’s intermediate call.) The shame of the flower with the passes has already been tested, so, Puce, listen! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U839	Name to Member Janis Dombrava. Colleagues! Indeed, the issues of mutual relations, please do not go beyond the sitting. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U840	However, I call on Mr Bikše not to be on the table on this matter. I'll explain why. Because a few years ago Mr Bikše was the one who came and said to the Education, Culture and Science Commission that this object should be preserved at least or at any cost. That's the truth. ( Internouncing call.) Yes, at that time he came as a sculptor, as an expert. Also a few years ago, in 2018, he said in public media that Latvian politicians should admit that the day of victory is, in principle, a good day. It's not an expert to listen to!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U841	Colleagues, let us return to the subject of the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U842	Yes, coming back to the proposal. As I said, political will must be there. And it must be shown fast enough, not sometime after the elections, when the next government will come together and decide how to steer and do all the processes. A clear deadline should be set. 23 August was rejected, I call for support on 15 September. Of course, demolition works can be carried out even tonight, but on 15 September would then remain in the law as the deadline for these works to be completed. That is possible. I therefore also call for its support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U843	Okay, colleagues, let us continue to mix the monument after a break. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name Inese Voika to report the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U844	Colleagues! Not registered: Arvils Asheradens... who is, Aldis Blumbergs, Normunds Dzintars, Raivis Dzintars, Alexander Kirštein... Normund Dzintars is... Rihards Kols, Maris Kučinskis, Ralfs Nemiro, Edmunds Teirumnieks, Atis Zakaitistovs and Gatis Zamurs... Which is it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U845	Thank you. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U846	Dear colleagues, I'm sorry for this short delay. Just together with the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, we met with the representatives of the PIZDA. Let's keep going. On the agenda - draft law “On the ban on exhibiting and dismantling of objects famous for Soviet and Nazi regimes in the territory of the Republic of Latvia”. A debate was opened on proposal 14. We are continuing the debate. The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U847	Dear colleagues of the Saeima! While you fled from the teachers who demanded higher salaries, you could have fled to the Victory Park and for all of them in the coalition to start treating their monument, rather than going for your dear lunch on the rest of the Old Riga restaurants. That's the number one. Number two. What is now sounding from the parliamentary tribunal is like a socialist competition - which will name an earlier date when to rename something, which street... disposed of. In the socialist competition, it was - called some dates and did nothing. And there's another important thing. On the day when teachers are at the Saeima and demand more salary (and their demand is reasonable, by the way, with 600 euros it is impossible to survive), and on the day when you decide on flags and monuments, here is not the majority of the National Association, which is about demographics and patriotism... Not at all in the hall... Not Raivis Dzintars, not Richard Colls. In fact, almost one of the National Association is not here. Where are the great patriots and the promoters of demographics then? ( Internouncing call.) The only thing that moves you to demographics is... You know who...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U848	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U849	... in your organization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U850	The name of the Member, Janis Izalnieks, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U851	Good afternoon! Aldis Gobzems invited all of us to go together and mix that occupation stable in Pārdaugava. I would say that, in accordance with the Constitution, the work of the Saeima is legislation and we do so. We are deciding today on the manner in which the executive powers are to do so within what time limits. Yes, Gundars Kalve, a member of the National Association, cast a cannon, a local occupation in the city of Jēkabpils last year. A few months ago, social networks showed a video of a young man with a hammer, went to the occupation room in Pārdaugava, a daussing board. I know him, this young man, he is not an extremist, rather a centurist, he was at least so far a supporter of Unity, but he could be just as well a Development/About! A supporter of the Conservatives, or Gobzem, or the Green and Farmers’ Union. It doesn't matter. It is important that the majority of Latvian citizens expect us to take decisive action and work before the elections, which we can show, rather than make promises to postpone something again. For 30 years we have left the transition to one language, now we want to postpone the removal of the occupation until 15 November. Let us stop this delay, let's finally do the job to the end, so that if, because of some coincidence, the god doesn't give it, on 15 November all these occupations will not be removed... so that voters should not then pull out the list of this vote and look who is responsible for it, who voted against this proposal - make it before the elections, by 15 September... what can be done. I call for the vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U852	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U853	Dear colleagues, My previous proposal, which meant that this date should be 23 August, was very similar, with the same motivation as Mr Iesalnieks. In my view, at the moment, while this monument is still standing there, when there has been an understanding at all political levels that this monument should be dismantled or dismantled, political discussions will continue here, in the Saeima, in Riga City Council and in other councils... Wound cutting... and indeed there is a possibility - if this date is postponed after the elections, absolutely what will happen - that the pre-election will be an active debate in the debate - an active debate! - the question of being a monument or not a monument, about various activities, about whom it is dedicated. All this will be, but we will not talk about why there are thousands of educators out of here today. Several thousands of educators are currently demanding a solution for teachers' salaries. Colleagues, we should have questions on the agenda about the salaries of educators, about the seniors, about how we get out of the economic crisis. We must rise to these issues and remove the issues of monuments, whether it be or not, as soon as possible from the Saeima's debate - it has already been decided. This proposal by Mr Izalnieks provides for a faster move so that it does not go beyond the pre-election debate. I also stood up for it. I think it would be wrong for us to put the pre-election debate on the subject: it is necessary or not to be a monument. Just before the Saeima, I spoke to many educators who demanded reasonable wages. They asked for the promises to be fulfilled. A teacher gave me this poster. She asked to show it to the Members of the Saeima (Shows a poster: “On promises of answer and money for salaries you find!” (See paragraph 4.5 of this Regulation.) so that Members of the Saeima can see... Members of the Saeima are the ones who didn't go to talk to picklers who stabbed their heads and passed through a crowd of educators... let them see and let them know what the educators are about - about reasonable wages. Get off arrogantly, colleagues! Let us address the issues that need to be addressed, and I call for this issue of monuments to be supported so that this happens more quickly, now that it does not come out after the next elections, and that we do not work on what and how better during the elections. To 14. This should be removed from the political debate in the parliamentary elections. This question (Shows a poster.) is much more important than this monument. ( The transcripts; the transcript: “Go out and read, it is there! ” ; intermediate call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U854	The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U855	Colleagues, I would have been very pleased to hear such a debate before... many questions in advance, to be precise, on paragraph 10 of the agenda, when we talked about this plan... the absence of a plan. It would be like a sweet song for my ears - to hear and argue... from the coalition that we will introduce it by September, no, better now, in just two weeks. That is what we should talk about at the moment, not what date we should break it down. Let's not be naive. This issue will be pulled up for a long time, until October. And, of course, this offer is on September because September - it is the ideal time just before the elections, because people regrettably, as well as many public comments about it, are quite short... such important events. Until recently, we fought against the Covid’s pandemic, and the major dullers mentioned the fact that the public administration is unable to think and take away musicians, but in the end, the same musicians go to Unity. That is our reality: the key issues of this troupe are not talked about, so I call once... For all time... However, one of the coalitions is going to climb the table and explain what is then the date on which we will talk about the support mechanisms in this energy crisis, what support measures will be available to educators who are currently protesting, because this problem has not arisen in recent weeks, this is a problem for years. And finally, if we have enough time and desire, we can talk about these monuments. But we can see that in Jacob's city very civilized and orderly, as it was also purposed for, unlocked, found and further buried in graves where other soldiers were laid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U856	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U857	For the Commission... 14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Member's Dealer was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U858	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 14. - a proposal from the Member's Dealer! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 19, it's against - 40, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U859	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Commission proposal. Defines the rules for dismantling, specifying that municipalities also carry out documentation of the objects to be dismantled, i.e. photo fixation. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U860	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U861	16. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Technical. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U862	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U863	17. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It shall be specified that the municipality is entitled to propose the dismantling of the site regardless of the origin of the land on which the site to be dismantled is located. Supported by the Commission. ( Interface: “Let’s vote! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U864	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U865	So 18. ( The utterances: ‘ Vote! ’) ) 18 and...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U866	I'm sorry. The 17th wanted to vote? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) About 17. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 17. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U867	18. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is foreseen that the municipality shall inform in writing the owner of the land on which the site to be dismantled is located before the construction of the site begins. Partially supported, included 19. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U868	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U869	19. - Commission proposal. Complements Article 6 of the draft law with a new sixth and seventh paragraph that dismantling of municipal objects in an accelerated procedure may be carried out with the help of its institution or capital company and that the municipality shall inform the owner of the land on which the object is located about dismantling. This proposal is supported by the Commission. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U870	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 19. - The proposal of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U871	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Janson. For an accelerated procurement procedure. Partially supported, included 21. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U872	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U873	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Commission proposal. Expresses Article 7 of the draft law on the specific provisions of the procurement procedure in an updated version. Supported by the Commission. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U874	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 21. - The proposal submitted by the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 57, no, 19, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U875	So 22. - Commission proposal. The title of Article 8 from ‘funding the dismantling of an object’ to ‘financing the dismantling of an object’ is redefined, as dismantling is a broader concept. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U876	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U877	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is envisaged that the dismantling of an object is financed from state budget funds, contrary to the support of the Saeima at first reading, that the dismantling is financed to the same extent by the state and the municipality. The Commission was not supported because the majority of the commission decided that dismantling of this facility should be carried out jointly and severally by both the State and the municipality, because the obligation of the municipality, even in this case, if it is located on the municipality's land, is to take care of dismantling of the facility. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U878	Members (Interface: “Vote!” )... You want to vote? Please call me! We will vote in favour 23. - The Legal Bureau's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U879	24. - a proposal similar to that of Member Šuplinska. There is no support in the Commission. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U880	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 24. - Mrs Šuplinska's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U881	25. - Asheraden's proposal. It is established that the restrictions laid down in Article 14 of the Law “On Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the Activities of a Public Officer” shall not apply to the funds donated for dismantling of an object meeting the criteria of Article 3 of this Law, and the supplement shall be - also for services. They do not apply either. Partially supported, included 27. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U882	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U883	26. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Technical. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U884	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U885	27. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. These are technical corrections to the draft law on donations. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U886	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U887	28. - the proposal from Member Mednes. The order of exhibition of the monument. In this version, the Commission did not support this proposal, but in its proposal 30, the Commission defined that the Museum of Occupation of Latvia is conducting public education, using details and fragments of objects, in accordance with the laws and regulations governing the activities of the museum. The Commission is therefore not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U888	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U889	29. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Janson. The intention is to create a new one - 9. - an article on the financing of documentation of the facilities and the maintenance of the demolished facilities. Partially supported, included 30. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U890	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U891	And 30. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supplement the draft law with Article 9 with the following title: “Inclusion of original parts and fragments of dismantled objects in the collection of the Museum of Occupation of Latvia”. The matter was analysed by the Commission, and the Commission came to the best solution in the Commission’s view. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U892	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U893	31. - the proposal from Member Mednes. Supplements to the transitional provisions already adopted by the Commission at first reading. And in this case it was precisely about dismantling the underground part of Pārdaugava monument and cleaning of its territory, where the Commission had determined that these works should be carried out until 30 June 2023. Member Medne proposed to supplement the transitional provisions by stating that these works, except if the municipality decides to keep the cellar under the monument and the artificial pond attached to it for further development of the Victory Park, may take place within a different time limit. The Commission did not support this proposal because the Riga City Council, expressing its views in the Commission, supported the wording of the first reading on the fact that by 30 June 2023 the dismantling of underground parts of the monument of Pārdaugava is taking place and the clean-up of the territory is also being implemented by this date. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U894	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U895	32. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Technical. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U896	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U897	33. - also a proposal from the Legal Office. Technical. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U898	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U899	34. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Thus, transitional provisions are laid down to the same extent by this proposal, that is to say, both on the arrangement of the exempted territory and on the financing of the implementation of the law, including paragraph 5 of the transitional provisions, that ‘[t]he monuments, memorial signs, memorial plates, memorial places, until the commencement of the dismantling of objects, placed in the public outer space, public building or in the inside of a public person, shall not be moved, dismantled or destroyed’. It is also stipulated that the law will enter into force on the day following that of its publication. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U900	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U901	On behalf of the Commission (Interface: 'Vote!') )...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U902	There has been a wish to vote in favour of this proposal? Please call me! To be put to the vote on 34. - The proposal submitted by the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U903	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U904	Please call me! We will vote for the second, final reading of the draft law “On the ban on exhibiting and dismantling of objects famous for Soviet and Nazi regimes in the territory of the Republic of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, (Applause) The law has been passed. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on Political Parties”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Edwin Šnore.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U905	Hello, dear colleagues! We can see the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Political Parties”. For the second, final, reading 19 proposals have been received. 1. - Member Mozhville's proposal. Imputations shall be made of cases which would be prohibited in the action of political parties. Partly supported and included 4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U906	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U907	2. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, Kronberg. It's about the same. Partly supported and included 4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U908	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U909	3. - A proposal from the National Security Commission. Also on the same subject. Partly supported and included 4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U910	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U911	4. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Bring together and offer the final formulation of cases that are prohibited for political parties. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U912	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U913	5. - A proposal from the National Security Commission. This applies to the authorities that supervise the activities of political parties by proposing the inclusion of national safety authorities. Supported and included 7. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U914	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U915	6. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, Kronberg. It is also about the supervisory authorities. Supported, included 7. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U916	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U917	And seven. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U918	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U919	8 / 8 - A proposal from the National Security Commission. Partially supported, included 9. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U920	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U921	9. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U922	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U923	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the National Security Commission. Partially supported, included 11. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U924	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U925	11. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U926	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U927	12. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, Kronberg. It states that the activities of political parties cannot conflict with the Constitution, offers wording. Partially supported, included 14. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U928	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U929	13. - A proposal from the National Security Commission. On a similar subject. Partially supported, included 14. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U930	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U931	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U932	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U933	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the National Security Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U934	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U935	16. - also a proposal from the National Security Commission. Partially supported, included 18. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U936	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U937	17. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, Kronberg. Partially supported, included 18. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U938	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U939	18. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U940	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U941	And the last one is 19. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U942	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U943	I call on the Saeima to support this draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U944	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the second, final, final reading of the draft law on the law on political parties! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Dear colleagues, Changes to the agenda of the sitting have been tabled. Members Maris Možvillo, Ramona Petraviča, Ieva Krapāne, Ēriks Pucens and Karina Sprūde are asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Political Organisations (Parties)” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Maris Možvillo.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U945	Hello, chair of the sitting! Hello, colleagues! When the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption examined the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Political Parties”, the management of the Office for Prevention and Combating Corruption addressed us with a question and proposal to open also the Law on Financing of Political Organisations (Parties), which would need to be brought into line with the norms of the Law on Political Parties, as it is now a situation that the Law on Political Parties stipulates that the political parties can stop the operation of the political party, while the Office for Prevention and Combating Corruption cannot stop the costs for these suspended parties. I therefore ask colleagues to put the draft law on the agenda and move forward with this draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Political Organisations (Parties). Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U946	Thank you. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Uldis Augulis, Armands Krauze, Jānis Dūklavs, Jānis Vucāns, Janīna Jalinska and others are asking for changes to the agenda of the sitting and to include the draft decision “On withdrawal of Member Jānis Dūklavs from the Sustainable Development Commission”. Are Members against this agenda? ( Insight: “Yes! Yes!’ ) Please call us! We will vote for the inclusion on the agenda of the draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Jānis Dūklavs from the Commission for Sustainable Development! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ( Milestones.) The draft decision is on the agenda of the sitting. Members Uldis Augulis, Armands Krauze, Jānis Dūklavs, Jānis Vucāns, Janīna Jalinska and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft decision “On the withdrawal of Member Māra Kučinska from the National Security Commission”. Mr. Tatar, you will speak. E. Tavars: “ Against”.’ )... ‘to’. So "no" has applied to speak to Member Edgars Tavars.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U947	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I did not think I would ever climb into a tribunal to talk about a Member's movement in relation to commissions because I believe that it is really the free will of these Members, in which they want to work on which - they do not want to - and I have a duty to confirm it. But this is not the case at all. Colleagues, we are talking about the National Security Commission, whose manager Iivars Lembergs wants to replace. I know it very well; you like it or you don't like it. I am convinced that perhaps a very large number, or at least some of the co-signators of this document, who are driving a new Member are not aware of this. But when it comes to withdrawal, colleagues, I know that very well. Just take that into account. I've been in such a conversation, I'm on the course for that. I will vote against.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U948	Mr Uldis Augulis has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U949	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, The National Safety Commission is its Committee. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) , where... each fraction - according to the Rules of Procedure - can be nominated by one member... those consisting of fractions. So... Both Edgars Tavars, Maris Kučinskis and Raimonds Bergmanis are no longer in the Group of the Greens/Farmers Union from today on, so - in line with the current legislation - these changes need to be made. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U950	Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft decision on withdrawal of Member Maris Kučinskis from the National Security Commission on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft decision shall be placed on the agenda of the sitting. Members Uldis Augulis, Armands Krauze, Jānis Dūklavs, Jānis Vucāns, Janīna Jalinska and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft decision on the election of the Member Jānis Dūklavs to the National Security Commission. Do Members have objections? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Please call us! We will vote for the draft decision on the election of Mr Janis Dūklavs to the National Security Commission to be on the agenda for the sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 67, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft decision is on the agenda of the sitting. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I (Laughter) Members Ainars Latkovskis, Krišjānis Feldmans, Jānis Dombrava, Arvils Aseradens and Juris Pūce ask for item 40 of the agenda – the draft law “Amendments to the law on maternity and sickness insurance” (No. 1403/Lp13) (Interim) at second reading, to be excluded from the agenda of the Saeima sitting. ( Milestones.) Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Are there any objections? ( Interfaces: “No! ”) “Of course!” ) Is there no? ( The box “Yes! ”) ‘No!’, ) Please call us! Let us vote in favour of it (Interface.) To ensure that from the agenda of the sitting... to include the question on agenda item 40 of the draft law “Amendments to the law on maternity and sickness insurance” (No. 1403/Lp13)! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 53, for - 19, for - 4. Decision adopted. ( Milestones.) Consequently, the draft law is excluded from the agenda of the sitting. Draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law”, second reading, draft law declared urgent. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Liva Kreituse.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U951	Hello! The Legal Commission reviewed and prepared for second reading the urgent draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” (No. 1449/Lp13). The draft law was designed to reorganize the court of Riga city Pārdaugava and Riga city Latgale suburb by adding it to the court of Riga city Vidzeme suburb and changing the name of the reorganized court to “Riga city court”. One proposal was received for the second reading, a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It is a editorial proposal that clarifies and redrafts the amended provision in order to make it easier to understand and understand. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U952	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U953	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U954	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendment to Criminal Procedure Law”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Liva Kreituse.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U955	This is therefore also considered by the Legal Commission and recognised as an urgent draft law “Amendment to the Criminal Procedure Law” (No. 1450/Lp13). As I have already mentioned, this is related to the previously examined draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law”. It also technically clarifies the name of the court in relation to reorganisation of Riga city courts. No proposals have been received by the Commission. I therefore call on the Commission to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U956	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on the second, final reading of the Criminal Procedure Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Status of Creative Persons and Professional Creative Organisations”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Ritvars Jansons.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U957	Dear colleagues, We examine the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Status of Creative Persons and Professional Creative Organisations”. 1. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Janson. This came about after a debate in the Commission. In particular, it was debated in the Commission that members of creative organisations need professional criteria, while other activities, such as members' compliance with the objectives of the association, are regulated by the Articles of Association. Therefore, the words ‘which correspond to the objectives of the association’ are excluded. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U958	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U959	2. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Janson. Corrections shall be made to the wording defining the decision on the status of the creative person. The Commission supported the proposal by Mr Janson, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U960	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U961	3. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Janson. It encourages to exclude the fourth paragraph of Section 13 of the draft law included in Article 4 because the Commission had a debate that such a definition of the fact that a professional creative organisation provides information about its members, if requested by an association of professional creative organisations, a state or municipal institution within the framework of creative persons’ support programmes, is very bureaucratic. That is why this proposal - on exclusion - was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U962	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U963	4. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Janson. Expresses the fourth paragraph of Article 5 (as regards the types of aid) of the draft law in a new version. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U964	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U965	5. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Janson. The wording of paragraph 3 of paragraph 1 of Article 15 shall be clarified and reworded in the wording of paragraph 1.1 of this Article so that the financial resources of the programme of measures may also be used to make compulsory contributions of the State social insurance for a self-employed creative person whose object of the state social insurance compulsory contributions is less than the minimum monthly wages fixed by the Cabinet of Ministers, but not longer than the period during which the self-employed person has been granted the status of a creative person. This proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U966	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U967	6. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Janson. Editative clarification. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U968	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U969	7. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Janson. According to Article 16, paragraph 1.1 of the Act contained in Article 7, the words ‘for the grant of an aid grant’ shall be excluded. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U970	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U971	8 / 8 - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Janson. This is the wording of Article 16 of the law contained in Article 7 of the draft law. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U972	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U973	And nine. - the proposal of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, which complements the draft law with the provision of the entry into force of the law: “the law shall enter into force on the day following its publication.” The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U974	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U975	Consequently, all proposals have been considered. On behalf of the Commission, I call on the draft law to be supported at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U976	Please call me! We will vote for the second, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Status of Creative Persons and Professional Creative Organisations”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Patients’ Rights”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Ilmārs Dūritis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U977	Hello, very honourable Chairman of the Saeima! Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. High honourable Members! The Commission of Social and Labour Affairs worked on amendments to the Law on the Rights of Patients. For the second reading, there was a debate in the Commission and a proposal was made by the Social and Labour Commission. This proposal provides for the exclusion of Article 2 of the draft law. I'll tell you a little bit about what that means. In particular, the Commission had a debate about whether the first-reading version of the decisions of the Health Inspectorate's Medical Risk Fund to appeal to the Health Inspectorate's management... whether it does not, however, restrict patients' rights in any way, because the current wording of the law... The current law provides that decisions of the Medical Risk Fund may be appealed against by the Ministry of Health. However, following discussions and discussions at the commission’s meeting, and also on the basis of expert guidance, the Commission decided not to accept this change at first reading and to exclude Article 2 of the draft law at first reading. In the Commission, this proposal from the Social and Labour Commission was supported. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U978	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U979	No further proposals have been received. I call on Members to support the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Patients' Rights at second, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U980	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Patients’ Rights” at second, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U981	Colleagues! I would remind you that the amendments to the Law “On Taxes and Fees”, which provide for the possibility of obtaining a re-extension of the tax due, are aimed at companies that have suffered during the period of sub-propaganda but have not yet recovered or returned to pre-propaganda level. Four proposals have been received by the Commission. 1. - a proposal by the Commission which precisely sets out the conditions favourable to the taxpayer in a situation where the tax administration revokes the decision to extend the period. In particular, it is specified that the taxpayer pays late payment only for the unpaid part of the principal debt. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U982	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U983	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U984	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U985	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. That too is editorial. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U986	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U987	4. - the proposal of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, which provides for the entry into force of the law on 1 August. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U988	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U989	We have examined all the proposals. The Commission supported the draft law and asked the Saeima to support it at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U990	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” in the second, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendment to law on the application of educational measures to children”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns. ( Pause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U991	Hello, colleagues! I'm sorry to be late, small technical cubes. In the legal commission we worked and saw amendments to the law “On the application of educational measures to children”. This bill goes together... in the package with the next items on the agenda, both the draft law on Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law and the draft law on Amendments to the Criminal Law. The aim of the draft law is to suspend the application of a protective measure of a nature - insertion in a social correction educational institution - until 31 December 2024. The suspension of the application of this educational measure is necessary in order to ensure the reform of social correction education institutions as an institute, by reviewing and improving the regulatory framework for the introduction of an educational measure - social correction education institution. When we examined this draft law, we received 13 proposals in total. We looked at them, we worked with them. 1. - Andrey Judin's proposal. It is planned to supplement the draft law with an educative means of coercion, namely the observation of probation. The Commission had a wide-ranging debate on this and, in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Science, the State Probation Service and the Ministry of Justice, we have the opportunity to support this proposal. The Commission is therefore in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U992	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U993	2. - the tied... Also the proposal from Member Andrejs Judine. This was also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U994	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U995	3. - The legal commission's proposal. Also designed to function 1. - Andrejs Judin's proposal, namely, the challenge as an educational tool for monitoring... monitoring of probation. ( The ring of noise.) The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U996	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U997	4. - also a proposal from the Legal Commission. The name of the same objective was developed. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U998	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U999	5. - a proposal for a legal technique from the Legal Bureau. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1000	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1001	6. - Member Edgar Tatar's proposal. Provision is made for a transitional period during which children are excluded from the application of this specific social correction measure by 2024. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) 31 December The proposal by Edgars Tatars states that it does not apply until 31 July 2023. So, in fact, in this period - in the faster period - there is a need to prepare a means of applying another, alternative. We discussed in the Commission that this deadline is not long enough to develop all the necessary regulation. The Commission was therefore not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1002	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1003	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The implementation of a protective measure - insertion into a social correction education institution - shall be terminated from 1 July of this year and shall not apply until 31 December 2024. In fact, until the end of 2024. What is my proposal about? The proposal provides for this deadline to be reduced to 31 March 2023. If we are (interim call.) ... 31 July. Thank you for the point. What are we talking about? We could take a decision to close the relevant educational institution, with "we" thinking the Ministry of Education and Science and the Coalition, so that even the leaders of this institution learn it from the media that it is immediately closed, but this alternative is being developed over a very long period of time. We understand that, right now, as early as 1 July, these children actually end up in the green meadow and they will be aware that the means of education that the court has or has set - placing in a specialised educational establishment - has come to an end. In fact, they fall into the hands of the municipality. The municipality, given that it has not worked with children of such a heavy nature... with such problems... who were placed in a specialised educational establishment by decision of the court are not objectively resolved. We have also talked about this with the Union of Municipalities, and the Union of Municipalities makes clear. Many have already said, yes, that is the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child, especially Article 58, which is, in fact, constantly being called on - which is the competence of the municipality. But I remind you that these children are in a very, very difficult situation. They are not affected by the simple means with which municipalities have worked so far. Therefore, there was this alternative: "Scarfs". If we are talking about this phase - from 1 July to 31 December this year - we do not have alternatives in fact. If the State Probation Service is not granted funding, then objectively... understand that these alternatives will not be two and a half years and these children will be involved with other children, young people. You plant in front of these young people - in a difficult situation - other children... Is that so? Not all are children, many are already adults. How can this affect other children? The consequences can be - chained - very large, colleagues, so I am calling for: we are not wearing it in the long term! We also reduce this task to the Cabinet of Ministers. The same applies to the task of the Cabinet of Ministers to draw up regulations - we do not wear them for such a long time! We have said in the past that we agree that there are problems in the Naujos. It was necessary to renew, invest, strengthen, and make a modern institution for these specialised children with a court decision and with a police message, but instead we have actually confused this system at the moment. And these rules... both the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers and the relevant amendments to the law are made for so long that we know that municipalities will have serious problems with it. And if there is no clear funding for the municipality (which we are talking about in the forthcoming proposals), then we can count on the consequences in our municipalities. I therefore call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1004	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1005	On behalf of the Commission, I can add that there were in fact two main arguments in the Commission why this proposal was not supported. One was that, already in previous proposals, we supported the replacement of this social correction measure for children by probationary supervision during the transitional period. So it will be dealt with by the State Probation Service. The second was that, in fact, in such a time limit, as indicated - by 31 July next year - it is not possible to develop all the necessary regulation of the system purely physically, so that in practice it would not be achieved... In the Commission, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1006	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - Member Tatar's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 27, for - 39, for - 7. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1007	7. - a proposal of a technical nature of the legal office. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1008	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1009	8 / 8 - also a proposal of a technical nature of the Legal Office. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1010	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1011	9. - Member Edgar Tatar's proposal. The Cabinet shall also set a time limit by which the Cabinet of Ministers shall draw up and submit to the Saeima the necessary amendments to the law regarding the application and execution of the inciting type of means - insertion into the institution of social correction. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1012	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1013	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The legal commission's proposal. Setting the deadline for the supervision of probation for these children as a means of social correction, i.e. 1 January 2023. It is necessary to adapt the laws and procedures... system, how... and provide funding to enable the State Probation Service to work with these children until this social correction institution is in place. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1014	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1015	11. - The legal commission's proposal. It also sets a deadline for the development of the appropriate regulation to allow the monitoring of the probation. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1016	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1017	12. - Member Edgar Tatar's proposal. Provision is made for funding for municipalities that during this period - until 1 January of next year - municipalities will ensure the social adjustment of these children. They'll be about 10 children. The proposal of Member Edgars Tatars provides that the municipality is granted funding of EUR 2900 per child. The Commission was not supported because it is not known exactly... We, the Commission, were aware of the formula used to calculate this funding, but its formula, as it is calculated, was not correct, and it is not clear what the procedure would be for this funding to be transferred. The Commission was therefore not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1018	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1019	Colleagues! I have already mentioned in the Commission that this proposal has also been prepared by the Latvian Municipal Union in consultation with specialists, including education specialists and social specialists. We have also had people from cities in the Commission, people responsible for social issues, and as one point, if, in fact, from 1 July this year, these special children with severe educational problems get into municipalities... If municipalities do not co-finance to provide separate facilities for attracting very specific specialists to this child, then there may be very serious problems. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) . Thus, we can count quite firmly on the suffering of the whole class of children who do not have this kind of problem. The level of education will fall, at least in those classes where these children are in a difficult condition. We will see that this can happen. The specific amount has been calculated by dividing the number of children by the average number of birds. Therefore, if we stick to the principle of "money follower" to the relevant municipality where this minor young person is present, a specific grant is also directed. We know that these children need very high-quality teachers, special educators, professionals who work with them. These are psychologists, drug addicts. Sometimes even a lot of psychologists...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1020	Sorry and wait. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) Colleagues, please, quiet room!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1021	Often even many psychologists refuse to work with such children. And this all costs money. Moreover, let us take into account that the observation of this topic is planned only with 1 January 2023, which was also talked about from this platform a moment ago. But I remind you again - the child reaches the municipality as early as July 1. I therefore call for support for this proposal, which provides for... This amount is not big overall, but we can talk about this money following... has no budgetary implications... this money follows this child to the particular municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1022	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1023	On behalf of the Commission, I can also mention one more argument why it has not been supported, that is to say, the municipalities already have a function, unlike the probation service, where it will be a new function, so it is necessary to develop all the arrangements, documents and funding. According to the regulations, municipalities already have to deal with this. Also, given that this period is very short - only until the end of the year - the Commission did not support the proposal by Edgars Tadars.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1024	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. - Member Tatar's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 34, against - 42, refraining from - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1025	13. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Provision is made for the law to enter into force. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1026	Members are in favour. ( Pause.) Sub-words: “All!” “It’s all!” ; “Let’s vote!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1027	Oh, supported by the Legal Commission, yes... draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1028	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the law on the application of educational measures to children” in the second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 65, it's not 10, it's not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendment to Criminal Procedure Law”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1029	Consequently, the related draft law - Amendment to the Criminal Procedure Law (No. 1496/ Lp13). We examined four proposals at the Legal Commission. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1030	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1031	2. - Member Edgar Tatar's proposal. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1032	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1033	3. - Legal...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1034	I am sorry, on proposal 2 - Members do not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1035	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1036	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1037	And 4. - also a proposal from the Legal Office. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1038	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1039	In the Legal Commission, the draft law was supported. I call on my colleagues to support them.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1040	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on the second, final reading of the Criminal Procedure Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 67, against - 5, refrains - not. The law is passed. Draft law on the amendment to the Criminal Law, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1041	This draft law is also related to the previous (two) approved draft laws - the draft law “Amendment to the Criminal Law” (No. 1497/Lp13). We examined three proposals at the Legal Commission. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1042	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1043	2. - Member Edgar Tatar's proposal. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1044	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1045	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1046	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1047	In the Legal Commission, the draft law was generally supported. I call on my colleagues to support them.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1048	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the draft law on criminal law in second, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Road Traffic Law’, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Sandis Riekstins.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1049	Hello, colleagues! Today, in the second final reading, we will see the draft law "Amendments to the Road Traffic Law" (No. 1518/Lp13). No proposals were submitted for the second reading. The Commission has supported the draft law. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1050	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final reading of the draft law on road traffic law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on National Security”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Raimonds Bergmanis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1051	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption has discussed the draft law “Amendment to the Law on National Security” (No. 1521/Lp13) at second reading. I would remind you that the draft law was intended and passed in one package with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the National Armed Forces” and was related to the implementation of special operations, which the Minister of Defence evaluates and coordinates with the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and then the National Security Council is accountable for the success or failure of the operation. It also involved active cyber defence operations. The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption has also created other - additional - proposals for this draft law. 1. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Associated with preventing the threatening or potentially threatening influence of national security in a major commercial company in relation to the military invasion of a sovereign state by the Russian Federation and its ally, the Republic of Belarus, and the aggressive rhetoric of their officials against other countries, denying the Russian Federation, the Republic of Belarus, their citizens or legal entities registered in the Russian Federation or the Republic of Belarus the possibility to acquire a significant influence on national security in a major capital company or to become a member of a personal society of importance to national security, as well as to become a true beneficiary of national security in an important commercial company. This proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1052	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1053	2. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. A transitional regulation shall be introduced providing that, with effect from the date of entry into force of the norms, citizens of the Russian Federation, of the Republic of Belarus and legal persons established in the Russian Federation or in the Republic of Belarus shall not be entitled to exercise the voting rights attaching to their shares or shares in a capital company which is important for national security, nor shall they be entitled to be a member of a personal company when representing a personal company and to keep records until such time as the restrictions laid down in the norms are removed. This proposal is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1054	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1055	3. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. It states that a person through whom a person belonging to Russia or Belarus benefits from a capital company that is important for national security is not entitled to exercise voting rights in a company that is important for national security. This proposal is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1056	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1057	4. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. It is envisaged to prevent a person or several persons from acquiring, or becoming a member of, a significant participation or decisive influence on national security in a major commercial company, without respecting restrictions imposed on Russia or a person belonging to Belarus. This proposal is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1058	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1059	5. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Transitional provisions for persons belonging to Russia or the Republic of Belarus shall be laid down for certain restrictions. This is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1060	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1061	And six. - a proposal from the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption, which provides for the entry into force as soon as possible of the restrictions imposed on Russia or the persons belonging to Belarus. This is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1062	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1063	All the proposals have therefore been examined. I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1064	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on National Security Act, second, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -64, against -12, refrains - not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the National Armed Forces”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Raimonds Bergmanis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1065	In the same session, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption also examined draft law “Amendments to the Law on the National Armed Forces”. As I said earlier, this relates both to these specific operations and to the active cyber protection in our country. The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption has created one proposal. This is due to the entry into force of the law: ‘The law shall enter into force on the day following its publication’. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1066	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1067	All the proposals have therefore been examined. I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1068	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the National Armed Forces” at second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -64, against -12, refrains - not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the law on civilian support of Ukraine” (No. 1527/Lp13), second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1069	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Hello, dear colleagues! The draft law “Amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Support Law” is under examination as a matter of urgency (No. 1527 Lp13). As I said, second reading. And this is an urgent bill. In the Commission, we received two proposals. Both proposals are from Member Artusa Nemiņa. Proposal No 1. The Commission was unanimously supported. The essence of the proposal is that commercial media, taking content from public media, whether Latvian Radio or Latvian Television, must have a reference, logo or oral reference to the relevant public media content maker. In particular, the logo must be mandatory. The proposal is supported. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1070	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1071	Thank you. 2. - The proposal from the Member's neighbor. It places something like a frame for the whole of this bill - that this is a temporary measure. That is, 30 June 2023... This could then be like a border time when this frame of the law could no longer work. Consequently, in order for that content to be transferred without a time limit, that time limit is also imposed here. It was unanimously supported by the Commission. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1072	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1073	Thank you. So both proposals in the Commission... No, the Saeima sitting is considered and supported. Consequently, all the proposals submitted to the draft law have been examined. I call for support to be given to the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1074	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on amendments to the Ukrainian civilian support law (No. 1527/Lp13) in the second, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the law on civilian support of Ukraine” (No. 1529/Lp13), second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1075	Good afternoon! The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption has examined current amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Support Law prior to the second reading. The amendments concern new support measures and improvements to existing measures. 16 proposals have been received. 1. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport Linkaita. It is envisaged to improve the regulation of free parking cards for disabled people. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1076	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1077	2. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It is expected that Ukrainian civilians will have the right to carry their luggage free of charge in public transport. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1078	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1079	3. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Clarifying the regulation, identifying groups of persons for whom a longer stay allowance will be available. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1080	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1081	4. - the health minister's proposal. It is encouraged to allow the exemption of capital companies from restrictions by donating halls to Ukraine. The Commission has partially supported and included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1082	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1083	The Commission improved the above provision and drafted a proposal 5. It is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1084	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1085	6. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare, Zalīte-Gross. The conditions for granting the aid shall be specified. Partly supported, included 7. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1086	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1087	7. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It supplements the norm on the above. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1088	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1089	8 / 8 - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare, Zalīte-Gross. This specifies the conditions under which primary aid is to be granted. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1090	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1091	9. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare, Zalīte-Gross. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1092	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1093	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare, Zalīte-Gross. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1094	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1095	11. - Member Budrik's proposal. It extends the period for orphan courts and municipal social service workers to perform overtime and extra work in support of Ukrainian civilians... and these costs will also be covered by the public budget. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1096	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1097	12. - Member Budrik's proposal. Associated with the above. And it is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1098	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1099	13. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. The right to apply for a state scholarship shall be established and other educational conditions shall be specified. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1100	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1101	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. It excludes a restrictive norm for the organisation of the psychologist's work. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1102	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1103	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport Linkaita. According to the Office of the SRSG on Children and Armed Conflict, he was responsible for recruitment and use of children under the control of the ‘Donetsk People's Republic’. Partly supported by the Commission, includes 16. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1104	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1105	16. - Commission proposal. The Commission supported 15. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport and supplemented by a regulation providing that Ukrainian civilians shall not be subject to the conditions laid down in Section 22, first paragraph, point 1 of the Road Traffic Act as regards the acquisition of driving rights. In the Commission, the 16th proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1106	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1107	I call for support to be given to the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1108	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on amendments to the Ukrainian civilian support law (No. 1529/Lp13) in the second, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Wexley Act”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1109	We are working on the draft law “Amendments to the Wexel Act”. Three proposals were received to the third reading committee. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1110	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1111	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. That too is editorial. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1112	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1113	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. That too is editorial. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1114	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1115	The Commission supported the adoption of draft laws at third reading. I also call on the Saeima to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1116	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Vekselis Law” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments’, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhena‐Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1117	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues! The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments (No. 1274 Lp13). No proposals were received for the third reading. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1118	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, final reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name Inese Voika to report the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1119	Colleagues! All Johns are still registered. Not registered: Aldis Blumbergs, Gundars Dauge, Raivis Dzintars, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Rihards Kols, Maris Kučinskis, Ralfs Nemiro, Ramona Petraviča, Edmunds Teirumnieks, Jānis Vucāns and Atis Zakaistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1120	Thank you. Interruption until 3.30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1121	Dear colleagues, We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - draft law on amendments to the law on detention procedures, third reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1122	Dear colleagues, Ten proposals were received to the third reading of the draft law. 1. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1123	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1124	2. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1125	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1126	3. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1127	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1128	4. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1129	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1130	5. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1131	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1132	6. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1133	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1134	7. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1135	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1136	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1137	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1138	9. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1139	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1140	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1141	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1142	Consequently, all proposals in this draft law have been examined. I call for support for the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1143	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the law on detention procedures” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 68, against and refrains - not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendment to the Ministry of the Interior System Authorities and Prison Administration Officers with Special Service Steps in the Service Implementation Law”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Maris Možvillo.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1144	Hello, fellow Members, again! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Ministry of the Interior System Authorities and Prison Administration Officers with Special Degrees of Service in the Law on Service Implementation” (No. 1346/Lp13), third reading. One proposal has been received for the third reading. The proposer is the Minister for the Interior, Mr Eklona, and the proposal provides for some changes in Article 44 concerning the wearing of uniforms and everything relating to different authorisations for the use of this uniform in different situations. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1145	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1146	Consequently, all proposals have been considered in the draft law. I ask colleagues to support the draft law as a whole.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1147	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Ministry of the Interior System Authorities and Prison Administration Officers with Special Degrees of Service in the Law on Service Progress” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 70, it's against and abstains. The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1148	I would like to say thank you to colleagues that the opposition proposal has gone through the whole cycle and the law has been passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1149	Thank you. Draft law “On disposal of part of real estate at Rūsiņa iela 1, Riga – construction of the European Standard Width 1435 mm railway line in the Rail Baltica corridor through Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania” – third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1150	In the legal commission we looked at the draft law “On disposal of part of real estate in Rūsiņa Street 1, Riga – for the implementation of the project “Construction of the European Standard Width 1435 mm railway line in “Rail Baltica” corridor through Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania”” (No. 938/Lp13). The draft law examined 13 proposals relating to the merger of several draft laws. Specifically in the draft law... the existing draft law was merged with draft law No. 1133 Lp13 and No 1221/Lp13. All these draft laws were designed to dispose of real estate for the purposes of building the Rail Baltica corridor. The first proposal, which had been examined by the Legal Commission, was the draft law No. 1123/Lp13 inclusion and consideration. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1151	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1152	Proposal 2 was draft law No. 1221/Lp13 inclusion. This is necessary to be able to combine all these draft laws. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1153	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1154	3. - also in connection with this merger of all draft laws. Partially supported, included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1155	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1156	4. - just as necessary for merging draft laws. Partly supported and included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1157	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1158	5. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1159	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1160	6 and... Now... I'll see you right now. A second, find in the table (Interfaces: “Can’t be faster?” )... I... One moment, yes, I can't find it at the speed of the table. ( Milestones.) Well, hopefully not. Well, we're gonna have less beer.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1161	6. has been partly supported and included 7. - the Commission's proposal. Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1162	Yeah, I found it. 6 and...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1163	Thank you, we already agreed. 7.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1164	... included 7. - the Commission's proposal. 7. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1165	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1166	8 / 8 - partially supported, incorporated 9. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1167	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1168	9. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1169	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1170	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - partially supported, incorporated 11. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1171	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1172	And 11. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1173	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1174	12. - partially supported, included in 13. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1175	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1176	13. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1177	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1178	Within the Legal Commission, the draft law has been approved. I also call on my colleagues to support the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1179	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “On disposal of part of real estate in Rūsiņa Street 1, Riga – construction of the European Standard Width 1435 mm railway line in “Rail Baltica” corridor through Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The law is passed. Draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on Budget and Financial Management’ (No. 1278 Lp13), third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1180	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues! The Budget and Finance (tax) Commission dealt with the third reading of the draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on Budgetary and Financial Management’ (No. 1278 Lp13). One proposal was received. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Provision is made for the entry into force of the law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1181	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1182	I therefore call for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1183	Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on Budgetary and Financial Management’ (No. 1278 Lp13) for the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 72, for - no, for - 1. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law”, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Edgars Tavars. ( Interface: “Edgar! ” Thank you. (See the box below.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1184	So, I'm very, very sorry, colleagues! No, I just asked Carl Shadurski not to get up in the podium anymore. So, colleagues, “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law”, third reading. Received by the Commission (interim). ... Yeah, yeah, it's okay. ( Milestones.) Nine proposals have been received by the Commission. 1. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Provides for the addition of an article to the draft law... In Article 240... in connection with divorce proceedings. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1185	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1186	2. - also a proposal from the Minister of Justice. Amendments to Article 400 Commitments permitting enforcement without a dispute. Reword an article. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1187	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1188	3. - also the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Janis Bordens. Adding bill... related to the second paragraph of Article 539... in a new version. Technical proposal: Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1189	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1190	4. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Article 540 shall be supplemented by paragraph 16.1... in a new version. Technically. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1191	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1192	5. - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ilze Indrickson. Associated with the enforcement equipment issued by the competition authority. Technically. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1193	Members are in favour. ( Pause.) Depp. E. Tavars differentiates pages.) Page 74.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1194	Yeah, yeah. 6. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It is envisaged to replace the amendment to Article 48, which provides for an amendment to the second paragraph of Article 656 by the word and the number ‘Article 18’ with the words and the numbers ‘Articles 18 or 19’. Technically. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1195	Members are in favour. Page 86.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1196	7. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Technical. Partly supported, included 8. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1197	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1198	8 / 8 - The legal commission's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1199	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1200	And nine. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Associated with the date of entry into force of the law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1201	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1202	All the proposals have therefore been examined. Please support the draft law at third, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1203	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Labour Law”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Normunds Gunna.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1204	Hello, colleagues! The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs has prepared draft law “Amendments to the Labour Law” at third reading. Together we have received six proposals. 1. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Provision shall be made for another person, other than the mother of the child, to be entitled to 10 working days of leave in order to take part in parental care at the request of the mother. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1205	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1206	2. - Proposal by Evita Zalīte-Gross, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare. Make this provision clearer. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1207	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1208	3. - The proposal from Member Rein Znotiņš. It is foreseen that the minimum monthly wage shall not be less than EUR 620 as from 1 January 2023. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1209	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1210	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Why such a proposal? First of all, I must point out to you (and probably you have also heard): at European Union level, there is currently a debate on setting a common minimum wage for each Member State... is proportionate to the average gross income. In the case of Latvia, the minimum wage should be between 600 and 640 euros. It is not yet in place, but most likely within a year or two we will get there, and it will also be adopted at European level. The second important point. Experts point out that increasing the minimum wage will make it possible to combat the share of the shadow economy. Here, speaking to various experts, both the Ministry of Finance and Mrs Znotiņa have just spoken to others... we see that the share of the shadow economy in Latvia is increasing. It is much higher than in other Baltic countries. Experts point out that, by increasing the minimum wage, this shadow economy should also shrink. The third important point. There are large differences in wages and unemployment in the regions. We know that in Riga, for example, unemployment is below the level of natural unemployment, while official data in Latgale show that unemployment is still around 14 percent. But it is often also due to the lack of transparency, the wages of the envelopes and for various other reasons. I have also heard from many of you, colleagues, that it is in the regions that we need to develop entrepreneurship, to develop the environment, so that people do not live there and go to larger cities or move to other countries. Then, raising a minimum wage, including regional differences, could help. It is worth noting what minimum wages are set in our neighbourhood, where there is both a lower share of the shadow economy and, to say, better economic performance. Here we can see that in Lithuania it is already 730 euros and in Estonia it is 654 euros, while in Latvia it is 500 euros, and also as a percentage of the average wage in Latvia has the lowest percentage of the minimum wage, or about 39 percent. These are all arguments why, colleagues, it is essential to think about raising minimum wages, and the Ministry of Welfare is also doing so and is actively dealing with the debate and talking to the social partners... Therefore, congratulations to the Employers' Confederation of Latvia, as well as to the Free Trade Union of Latvia. I very much hope that both the proposals submitted by the Saeima and the progress made by the Ministry of Welfare to travel... raise the minimum wage in Latvia... So, as in my proposal, EUR 620... I hope that this will soon lead to good results. That's what... Since this proposal has not been supported by the Commission, I will withdraw it this time. I call on the representatives of the government and the social partners to take into account all the arguments I have mentioned at the moment and, accordingly, to change and raise the minimum wage in Latvia by the end of this parliamentary term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1211	Thank you. The proposal has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1212	4. - Proposal by Evita Zalīte-Gross, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare. Partially supported, included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1213	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1214	5. - Commission proposal. A legally binding proposal in the insurance context. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1215	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1216	6. - Proposal by Evita Zalīte-Gross, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare. Provision is made for the entry into force of the law on 1 August this year. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1217	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1218	All the proposals have been examined. Colleagues, I call for support for the draft "Amendments to Labour Law" in the third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1219	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law "Amendments to Labour Law" in the third, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The law is passed. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Commercial Law’, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1220	That's great. Let's work! Third reading - Amendments to the Commercial Law (No. 1272 Lp13). The draft law is, it could be said, almost perfectly prepared, because only seven proposals were received in this very long draft law. I'm sorry... 1. - a proposal from Member Ilze Indrickson. Actually, I'll remind you of this... The commercial law is... These amendments form an integral part of a major reform which will make the activities of public limited liability companies more open in the future. Yes, but Mrs Indicice's proposal was unfortunately not supported. ( The utterances are: ‘ Let’s vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1221	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the proposal tabled by the Member, Indricksones! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 36, against - 38, abstaining. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1222	Yeah, sure. So two. - a proposal from the committee responsible. That is something that has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1223	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1224	Also 3. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1225	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1226	The same is true for 4. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1227	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1228	And 5. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1229	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1230	6. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1231	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1232	And seven. - The proposal of a Member of the Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, Mr. Janis Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1233	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1234	All the proposals have therefore been examined. I call for support to be given to this draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1235	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law "Amendments to the Commercial Law" in the third, final, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Information Systems of the Territories”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1236	Well, here's such a new bill. Only at first reading, we examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Information System of Sworn Territories” (No. 1491/Lp13). The aim of the draft law is to open the data of the information system of the affected territories and to specify the data providers of the information systems, to which these data are to be provided free of charge, and to distinguish the issues that are established in the law of the information system of the territories and regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers issued on the basis of the law. I call for urgent support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1237	Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Information Systems of Territories”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1238	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 16 July this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1239	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 16 July this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Civil Protection and Disaster Management”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Raimonds Bergmanis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1240	In its meeting of 7 June this year, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption examined draft law “Amendments to the Law on Civil Protection and Disaster Management” at second reading. No proposals were submitted. Let me just remind you that these amendments concern the development of a comprehensive civil protection plan in every municipality... including the development of a plan in case of military invasion or war. I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1241	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on civil protection and disaster management! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1242	The deadline for submitting proposals is 27 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1243	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 27 June this year. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on Registration of Civil Status Acts”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1244	Dear Members, Honourable Members! The Legal Commission has examined the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Registration of Civil Status Acts”. The second reading received one proposal from a Member, Mr Kirštein, at the Legal Commission. This has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1245	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1246	On behalf of the Legal Commission, please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1247	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Registration of Civil Status Acts” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1248	On behalf of the Legal Commission, please set a deadline of five days, i.e. 21 June.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1249	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 21 June this year. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on Election Aggregation”, second reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission, Member Uldis Budriķis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1250	Hello! President of the Saeima. Minister and honourable colleagues! See the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Election Aggregation”. A total of five proposals have been received. The substance of the amendments is pre-election of the campaign language, namely the determination of the state language of pre-election of the campaign. 1. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. It provides for the prohibition of pre-election campaign funding from state budget funds allocated to a political organisation on the day of elections and seven days before the day of elections. The proposal has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1251	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1252	2. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. By the very nature of the draft law, it is a proposal which is about pre-election of the campaign language. Member Viktors Valainis has put forward the following proposal: “The election campaign, the placement of which is included in the expenditure subject to pre-election limits laid down by law,” - and is supplemented here - and which is financed from the state budget, must be carried out only in the state language.” I would like to mention that in the Commission on the basis of this proposal... Four alternative options were developed in the working group, but Members agreed to support Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal at the commission meeting. The Commission is therefore in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1253	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1254	Dear colleagues! What, then, is this proposal made by Viktors Valainis? He believes that it is also necessary to promote Russian, and the Commission has supported such a proposal for reasons beyond my grasp. I believe, however, that Latvia's citizens are taking part in the elections. I do not know anything about elections where non-citizens of Latvia take part, at least I do not know about such elections in Latvia. I accept that if you are a Latvian citizen, you have an orientation (at least in the sense of ballot papers) in Latvian, you are able to read words, surnames in Latvian or read the program in Latvian. It is therefore difficult for me to imagine why the political parties of the Republic of Latvia (I am not talking about European political parties and so on) should be promoted in Russian. So this proposal by Viktor Valaiņš seems interesting to me, to put it mildly. In this respect, I call for this interesting proposal to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1255	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1256	Colleagues! It may be that the proposal is interesting, but I think it is absolutely in place, given the situation in which the commission arrived when examining this draft law. I am well aware of the aim of the proposers. And here is not even a story about the proposal; here is the very draft law. The draft law provides, in essence, that the campaign of pre-election takes place only – only in Latvian. What I have proposed with my proposal, and what is supported by the Commission, is a certain compromise between the applicants and the political parties, let us call it because, regardless of that political party... I think a number of political parties here in the Saeima... there are certain places where the campaign takes place not only in Latvian but also in other languages. It's not unusual today. Colleagues, I am making one thing very clear with this proposal: the funding of the state budget allocated to a political party... national budget funding - then we also decide on this. So we can use the funding of the state budget only for advertising in Latvian - not to the right or to the left. I offer that the funding of the state budget, which is allocated to political parties, is used for advertising only in Latvian - state - language. To what political parties are donated by donors or some kind of supporters or people themselves, third parties go something... deals with political campaign - we do not impose restrictions on it. That is the meaning and nature of this proposal. And that was also a compromise. I call for the opinions that are attached to this draft law - from the Legal Office, from the various institutions - to understand why this compromise proposal is actually needed. These proposals, whatever they may wish and whatever they may wish, will not apply to 14. Saeima for the elections. It won't be... We are currently talking about 15. Saeima elections, perhaps for the next municipal elections, but not for the 14th. Saeima for the elections. I therefore call for support. This is a compromise. If the parties have supporters and if the parties consider them to be money... We spend it, let's speak openly, in the Russian-speaking media, please do it - waste it. State money - only in state language.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1257	The name of the Member, John Isal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1258	The author of the proposal, Viktors Valainis, did not answer the question: by whom does he wish Latvian citizens to communicate with voters not in the state language? I hope everyone listened carefully today to the speech by the President of Latvia Egils Levite, and it was understandable from it that all Latvian citizens, not to mention citizens, should understand Latvian. And there can't be any compromises here. We cannot compromise on national issues. The Satversme provides that Latvian is the only state language, and citizens who elect the legislator, the Saeima, and other representatives must understand the state language. And parties must communicate with these voters in national language. This is self-evident in any democratic, national state. That is why I personally cannot understand this compromise offer in a national country. I call for such a proposal to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1259	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1260	Given that I did not listen carefully this morning to Egil Levit's speech, I have to note that the pre-election campaign to address voters, I do not know that Chinese or Spanish is simply stupid. In Latvia, each party will know what language to speak to voters, and it is, however, the Latvian language. The whole parliamentary time on this subject is absolutely stupid for one simple reason - because it is exactly the same subject as the issue of stones, the subject of flags, the subject of nothing. It's a subject of nothing. We should be debating today how we will deliver fuel in the autumn, not how we will address our constituents. Personally, as a politician, I know very clearly how I will address my constituents, and I think that everyone else in this hall is also very clear about how they will speak to their voters, but to use the parliamentary tribunal to just try to build some kind of political capital with nothing that does not help Latvian society in any way is absolutely irresponsible. It is simply irresponsible to the Latvian people. It is irresponsible to the teachers who protested here today, to the Saeima, and who said that the coalition members passed by with their heads and could not look in the eyes of the teachers, Mr Iesalnieks. That is the question. I call for this to be closed quickly at all and for the question of how we will limit the export of chips, how we will get cheaper petrol (Interdependum.) how we will achieve higher salaries for teachers... on the autumn, as the cost of life increases, and let's finish spreading all those flags and... stones. And the malter this evening on the straight to the Victory Park - let it begin to ruin the monument! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1261	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so? The debate has already been closed.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1262	As I said earlier, the majority of Members in the Commission tend to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1263	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 40, for - 40, for - 40, for - 1. (Laughter) Thank you very much. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1264	3. - Mr Valaina's proposal. It provides for a ban on election day as well as seven days before election day campaigning in public places. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1265	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1266	4. - Mr Valaina's proposal. On a similar subject. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1267	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1268	And 5. - a proposal from the committee responsible. A reference to the entry into force of this Article shall be excluded. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1269	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1270	I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1271	Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Elections in Aggregation”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1272	The deadline for the submission of proposals was 15 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1273	Thank you. Please the microphone member, Janis Dombravs.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1274	Given that this draft law is not the first day of consideration, there is a call for a deadline of 1 July. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1275	Please a microphone member, Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1276	October 30th.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1277	October 30th. Okay. Dear colleagues, We have deadlines for proposals: 1 July this year, 15 September this year, 30 October this year. So let's vote in favour. Please call me! We will vote on the deadline for submitting proposals to the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Election Aggregation” - 30 October this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 23, against - 52, abstaining. Consequently, this deadline is not adopted. We will vote in favour of the deadline for tabling proposals on 15 September this year. Please call me! We will vote on the deadline for submitting proposals to the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Election Aggregation” - on 15 September this year! ( The transcripts are: ‘ Against ’!) “Yes!” ) Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 39, it's against - 39, it's not. We must vote again (Minimum: 'no'!) ) (a.k.a. Please call me! We will vote on the deadline for submitting proposals to the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Election Aggregation” - on 15 September this year! Please vote mode! Please the result! About - 39 (Applause) , against - 42, abstaining - 1. That is why this voting regime of the proposals is also being put to the vote. Please get the result! On - 39, against - 42, refraining from - 1. Consequently, this deadline for the submission of proposals is also rejected. The deadline for the submission of proposals - 1 July this year - remains in force. Draft law “Amendments to the Education Act”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Member Linda Medne.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1278	Colleagues! At its meeting of 10 June, the Commission for Education, Culture and Science examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education”. The aim of the draft law is to implement a gradual transition to state language training at the level of general education pre-school and primary education in order to promote successful implementation of improved teaching content and approach in all educational institutions of Latvia and to ensure the acquisition of minority language and cultural history in accordance with the Satversme and international obligations of the Republic of Latvia, as well as to improve the regulation of the use of foreign languages in professional secondary education. The current language approach in minority education programmes has not fully ensured quality learning of the state language at all stages of education. In order to ensure the most effective participation in public life and to promote further education for minority pupils, it is equally important to learn the state language, as the state must provide the best way and opportunity for everyone to integrate into society and participate effectively in cultural, social and economic life, otherwise insufficient knowledge of the state language can limit integration into society and hinder the development of a successful professional career. The transition to education in Latvian applies to 17 per cent of teachers in pre-school minority education and primary education, as well as to 24 per cent of students who learn the pre-school curriculum of minorities and primary education of minorities. The Commission for Education, Culture and Science supported the progress of the draft law at first reading. I ask you to support this too.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1279	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name of Minister of Education and Science Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1280	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. High honourable Members! First of all, I would like to thank both the government and our partners and, of course, the members of the Saeima's Committee on Education, Culture and Science for their smooth progress in starting the examination of this draft law. I very much hope that this is still 13. - The Saeima will finally be able to put an end to this 30-year work done in order to ensure that all students in Latvia, so that all children in Latvia are not sorted according to their language (Intersorbent.) ... by their language family, so that every child in Latvia has the opportunity to fully integrate into Latvian society, so to communicate in the state language, consume the same media, understand what these media, the Latvian media, say, compete in the labour market as if they were Latvian citizens. I also mentioned earlier in the Saeima language debate that we, as a country, have not so far boldly said that we in Latvia have to educate every student in our only beautiful Latvian language, thus also providing a unified society, because only society that is not divided by the names of schools, by what proportion - the state language or other, a foreign language... used in educational institutions... Just by saying honestly that every child in Latvia has the same right to a completely equal education, including quality education, we can get a society that thinks the same, that understands each other, where people speak the same language with each other. And I am very happy that we are taking these first steps. As the rapporteur for the bill said... in brief about what it is intended to do. Thus, starting from 1 September 2023, in all pre-schools in grades 1, 4 and 7 basic education programmes will take place in 100 percent Latvian. From 1 September 2024 - also in classes 2, 5 and 8. From 1 September 2025, every child in Latvia will learn the state language. At the level of basic education, minorities... So a child with a different family language as part of an educational program... A minority language and cultural history will be available as part of an interest education programme. The possibilities for obtaining such a programme will be financed through targeted grants to municipalities from the state and local authorities. The draft law also establishes a significant improvement in regulation of the state language skills and use of teachers of the educational institution in accordance with the necessary scope for the performance of professional and professional duties specified in regulatory enactments. Since 1999, Latvia has a requirement to know the state language at the highest level, but these clarifications will provide for regulation to prevent teachers who do not understand and are therefore unable to use the state language at level C 1, their presence in an educational institution and their participation in the implementation of educational programmes. We understand that successful implementation of this reform and this final step also requires a series of support measures. We therefore intend to introduce support measures for educators from this school year, 1 September 2022. In the form of fixed-term support from 2022 to 2026, combined training courses for pre-school teachers will be available for the development of Latvian language skills, as well as professional competence development activities for teachers, including further education, experience exchange activities, methodologies on specific issues of pedagogy and methodology, support for teachers to work in a linguisticly diverse environment, as well as advice to teachers of the learning community as support for work in a diverse language environment. Support measures for pupils in primary education are also foreseen, with a particular focus on students in grades 1-3 to mitigate the negative effects of an uneven linguistic environment, providing psychologists support in primary education process, thus reducing the emotional tensions that may arise especially in younger pupils in such an uneven environment. In the same way, additional support will also be available for minority learners in specific education programmes. In the same way, additional financial resources from the state budget are provided for the purchase of teaching resources for the implementation of the minority language and cultural history interest programme, as well as the replacement of teaching resources for the learning process in the Latvian language and also for the education of interests. After the adoption of this draft law, until 31 December this year, we have the task in the Cabinet of Ministers to amend both the regulations on pre-school education guidelines and to amend the models of basic education standards and primary education programmes. Colleagues, I really call and hope that you will support this historic draft law, which is important for Latvia as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1281	Thank the Minister. (Applause) Name to Member Karl Shadursky.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1282	Dear President, Dear Minister, Dear colleagues, For decades we have been talking about the integration of society. Created and funded various projects and programmes, funds and concepts, spent money, developed a layer of parasites that manage this money (inter-sacred). and pretends to do a useful job, squeezing in a hectic blow and pretending to move forward. At the same time, we have pretended not to notice that at the occupation monument in Riga, whose pitiful existence has finally been put to a point today, the victors of the heroic Soviet army and the rapers... Instead of the veterans who have been named from there, from year to year aggressive young people, the target group of our integration policy, who have truly integrated themselves perfectly - in hatred against Latvia, gather more and more during the celebrations of the repeated occupation of Latvia. Liana Langa recently said honestly: “It’s enough to pretend, integration policy has failed.” I would say a little different: that from the very beginning it was misdesigned or, as it says in its ancient story, we have searched for keys where they are more convenient than where they could actually be. Or say, for the sake of my dear peace, let us not harm the Russians. Ignoring the obvious basic truth that the basic condition of an integrated society is that our children grow up together, play together, study together, celebrate joint festivals, and have the same values in family and school... The legislator of family values cannot be directly influenced, but the school can, and those brought to school will only enter the family when today’s students raise their children. However, the road to a single education system has been unforgivable. Today we will finally adopt the draft law on First Reading Amendments to the Education Act. In September, the Saeima will have to consider two remaining readings, and after three years language reform in education will be fully completed. We have been moving very slowly, without a special system, to this day with a great break at each stage of the reform. First reforms we can talk about... more than 20 years ago. First of all - state universities, then - vocational education, then in 2004 - secondary bipolar. Finally in 2017 - secondary school in Latvian, primary school in Bulgarian and all higher education in Latvian. In these last two reforms, our team has had the opportunity to participate. To be honest, it was not an easy job. The endless debate in the Saeima, never talking about the reasons, but always looking for excuses, politically motivated myths and something that is not yet. Every amendment to the Law on Education, the Law on General Education and the Law on Higher Education, which strengthened the positions of the state language, was challenged in the Constitutional Court. The real Latvian patriots from “Sangar” or the Russian Union of Latvia, as they used to beekeepers, took care of it each time. All these years, the Saeima was governed by the principle of competition for or against Latvian, for or against Latvia. And it's clear that while there's a race, there's no work, while people don't learn the language, maybe they won't need the language. So now, only three years later, our education system will be uniform in the meaning of the law. Only then will the process of real integration or formation of a political nation begin in Latvia, including the leadership of education policy will have to overcome inertia that Latvians go to schools and Russians – in others. A large number of regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers will have to be revised in order to transfer minority languages and cultures to the education section of interest in order to establish criteria of state language skills for teachers. How long will it take? It's hard to answer right now. In Ukraine, the Russian occupations have made the unification of society at a record pace, showing what is actually the so-called Russian world. Latvia, thank God, has reliable and strong allies. We heard a flight over and over again (Interior call). , and we are protected from direct Russian aggression. But how big is Russia's fifth column in Latvia, waiting for the liberators and, in case of a military invasion, the lists of Latvians to be shot and deported? Give God that we would never know that in practice. We will correct the law quickly, but to a positive change in the attitude of the majority of Latvia's Russians towards Latvia we will have to wait much longer - while today's students will become parents and their children will grow, but perhaps there is also time to change the mood of teachers. Moreover, it should not be imagined that political decisions will also be easy in the future. SASKY, who understands that in a united society, they no longer have a political niche where to live, will fight against Latvian education, as much as they can, will use all means to hinder the political process. Dear colleagues, Let us support the amendments to the law and start developing a real agenda for the integration of society that inspires values that respect human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and human rights, including the rights of minorities. Thank you, Minister, for your work. Thank you to the Commission for Education, Culture and Science for what has been done so far, and late in the future. We will vote in favour of this draft law at first reading. Thank you. ( Internoint.) Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1283	Thank you. Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1284	Dear Saeima! Indeed, this road has been very long and long. As an inheritance from the Soviet Union, we remained divided, expensive, ineffective education system, where Russian schools were used as cells for building the Russian world and... Well, in this reclamation for the procremal forces. After the restoration of independence, the Latvian National Independence Movement was the one that was also very active about the need to create a unified education system. On this wave of euphoria awakening, many municipalities were able to make decisive decisions about the creation of a unified education in the state language. By the way, many of these municipalities have become successful, since segregation, differences did not develop, children started training together, training in the state language, and there have been no problems for all years of independence. But like I would say on the issue of monuments, there were enough municipalities that were too cowardly, indecisionless to make decisive decisions already in the early 1990s. At the beginning of the two thousand years there was such a very popular minister of education, Kārlis Šadurskis, who earned special (in the footsteps) “popularity” to friends of the “Congregation” who wrote even various videos about him, because he was the one who, as a minister, was the first time in bringing together education in the language of the country. And thank him for that. In 2011, 120 433 Latvian citizens signed up to the amendments initiated by the National Union, which provided a uniform education in the state language. This would have been a sufficient signal for politicians to understand that this problem needs to be resolved. Unfortunately, the majority of politicians in 2011 were still alive this Soviet man, who lived in many heads, and I remember even the publications, as was the case with the pagans, being called radicals, those people who signed a uniform education in the state language in 2011. In 2018... Now it happened that again the Minister of Education was Kārlis Šadurskis, and I would say, also because of this, I think we managed to agree in the coalition that a further shift to education in the state language was taking place. It was also a very important step forward. At the end of 2018, when drawing up the new government, it was also highlighted as one of the essential principles to which this coalition should work: a further shift to public language education, including pre-school education. At the moment, I can say thank you to the existing Minister for Education and Science, Mrs Muižniece, that these draft laws have reached the Saeima and we can finally make the national right decision, which should actually have been made in the early 1990s, if only this Soviet person died sooner in the minds of many of our fellow citizens. Let us put an end to this expensive, inefficient, fragmented education system, and let us support these amendments! Not just to support, but... I call them in the final reading... admitted very quickly. Then we can take the next step, which will be no less important and which needs to be done in the coming years, i.e. freeing the education system from the pro-masscave elements, which have contributed to the fact that many young people still adhere not to the state of Latvia, but to the state of Latvia, but to their loyalty to Russia. We shall vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1285	Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1286	Dear Members, Honourable Members! This draft law is an attempt to solve the final problem of Russian education, or a solution to its problem, as has been understood by all restored independent Latvian governments without exception. As early as 1996, the Saeima had considered the draft law on the transition to study only in Latvian. Since then, this process has been implemented as a series of non-systemic attempts for the complete elimination of education in minority languages, first and foremost in Russian, as quickly as the government could afford at every political moment. Russia's invasion of Ukraine is used as a particularly favorable moment. Minister Muižniece openly states that her proposal is important right now, in the cynical hope that the Russian-speaking community in Latvia can be demoralized and unable to demonstrate effective resistance to the final elimination of Russian-language in schools. As I said in the debate before the draft law was passed on to the Commission, the transition to Latvian-language training has started without coordination with the parents of children, non-governmental organisations of minorities, thus forcing and leaving no choice. As a result of this transition towards the training of children from minorities in the Latvian language, the State ignores its international obligations, namely Article 15 of the General Convention for the Protection of National Minorities of the Council of Europe, which states that the Member States of the Council of Europe undertake to create the necessary conditions for the effective participation of persons belonging to national minorities in cultural, social and economic life as well as in public life, especially when minorities themselves are concerned. The necessary conditions for persons belonging to national minorities to be able to participate effectively in decision-making on the language of instruction of children belonging to a minority were not created. In the section “The Results of Public Participation” it is stated that the Consultative Council of the Ministry of Education and Science on Minorities Education was held, where amendments to the Education Law were discussed in order to promote the successful implementation of the new educational content and learning approach in Latvian in all educational programmes. But I will also note that the Consultative Council on minority education is not a board of permanent representatives of society, but a board of experts. How did that sitting take place? The Minister also answered the question about the justification for the transition to Latvian: do you not see war? Other questions were written by the Minister in a notebook, promised to check and quickly left. The decision-making board was not adopted, the minutes of the meeting were not forwarded to the members of the board. The draft legal act was also submitted for public discussion in the Cabinet of Ministers' portal. A few thousand of the objections and proposals submitted were taken into account by ministries' objections and technical proposals on the organisation of public participation. However, non-governmental organisations have received a standard explanation of why they were rejected on their objections and proposals on the content of the draft law. None of their applicants were addressed. I conclude that public participation was organised formally, without leaving civil society the opportunity to influence the content of the bill. On the ideological basis of the transition to training only in the state language, annotation of the draft law raises the dismantling of the school system based on the principle of segregation. In order to achieve political objectives, the word ‘segregation’ is not used correctly. In sociology, segregation shall be defined as a policy of forced separation of people according to their race, nationality, religion or any other characteristic. Meanwhile, everyone in Latvia can learn in any school without any prior separation. According to the report, the Soviets in Latvia were established: “... a system of schools based on segregation was established; migrant children were mainly formed with a separate parallel network of “Russian-speaking” schools, while the existing minority schools, including Russian national schools, were eliminated.” ( End quoted) In any case, the elimination of minority schools was unfair to anyone who had been deprived of the opportunity to teach their children in the family language and was detrimental to society as a whole. But if the authors of the bill consider that its authority is unacceptable, why does it encourage the cessation of training in minority languages and not the creation and strengthening of minority schools? According to the report: “In the field of education, russification was implemented by paying particular attention to the learning of Russian in schools with Latvian language, as well as by creating schools where only Russian was the language of instruction....” ( End quoted) It should be noted here that only Latvian was the teaching language in Latvian schools. Secondly. Latvian citizens in Latvian-language schools with Russian-language language were mandatory - just like the subject “Russian-language” in Latvian schools. Moreover, teaching in the mother tongue, teaching the second language as a separate subject, was not an innovation of the Soviet school, but the democratic order of Latvia from the pre-war. This tradition, which survived Ulmanis' time and the Nazi occupation, was questioned only in 1995 - during the renewed independence. And another quote from annotation: “The resignation of individuals belonging to different identities in each’s identity space undermines the possibility of democratic discourse and joint action within a single society...”. ( End quoted) It's the same thing... Like... Mr Shadursky told us about this. So the aim of the termination of teaching in Russian is to eliminate the threat and prevent everyone from receding in their identity space - that is, the salt of the bill. In its Helsinki decisions 30 years ago, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) established a post of High Commissioner for National Minorities as an early-stage means of conflict prevention. Such a mandate was given mainly as a response to the situation in the former Yugoslavia, as there were concerns that it could reoccur elsewhere in Europe... As he looked in the mirror. The High Commissioner's focus was primarily on situations where persons belonging to national or ethnic groups form a numerical majority in one country and a numerical minority in the other, thus affecting the interests of both countries and creating potential tensions or conflicts in relations between countries. The OSCE High Commissioner has been able to identify certain common challenges and topics. Minorities' education, in particular minority language education, was highlighted as a priority issue among them. The OSCE recognised the person's right to maintain his identity indisputable and against what the authors of the draft law under consideration stressed, there was no threat to his identity, but stated that education in minority language was a matter of priority for maintaining and developing the identity of persons belonging to a minority. This led to OSCE recommendations on minority rights in education. And more specifically, given that the first years of education are crucial for the development of the child, training at pre-school and kindergarten level should take place in the child's basic language. Wherever possible, countries should create the conditions for parents to make such choices. In a basic school, it would be best to present the curriculum in minority languages. The language of minorities should be taught as an independent subject. The official language should also be taught as an independent subject. At the end of this period, some practical or not too theoretical subjects should be taught in the national language. Where possible, countries should create the conditions for parents to make such choices. In secondary education, a large proportion of subjects should be taught in minority languages. The language of minorities should be taught as an independent subject. The national language should also be taught as an independent subject, but the number of subjects taught in the national language should be gradually increased over this period, and the more gradual this process is, the better for children. In education, maintaining minority languages at basic and secondary level depends to a large extent on the ability to attract teachers trained in all disciplines in the basic language. Therefore, in line with the obligation to ensure adequate access to education in minority languages, countries should ensure adequate training and access to such training. Under international law, persons belonging to minorities, like others, have the right to set up and run private educational establishments in accordance with national law. Such institutions may include schools where training takes place in minority languages. On the basis of the right of persons belonging to minorities to set up and manage their educational establishments, States should not impede the exercise of those rights by adopting conditions of an excessively burdensome legal and administrative nature governing the establishment and management of such institutions. Private educational establishments (in minority languages) have the right to call for funds from public budgets, international sources or the private sector without any restrictions or discrimination. The draft law under consideration is challengingly ignoring the OSCE recommendations on minority rights in education. After minority education ran... Latvia has received opinions and recommendations from some international organisations and institutions, including the UN Human Rights Committee; from the Advisory Committee of the Council of Europe, which monitors the implementation by Member States of the Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities; from the UN Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination, which operates in accordance with the UN International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination. All recommendations apply to public schools and all conclude that the norms of the law ensuring minority education... the reduction in the use of languages in minority learning is not in line with the Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities and the UN Convention on Anti-Discrimination. These norms should therefore be repealed in Latvia. The draft law under consideration obviously reduces opportunities for learning in minority languages even more strongly, and threatens the cultural identity of families belonging to minorities. It is also clearly arrogant of persons belonging to minorities. This goes against the values of the European Union. I call for the 'no' vote on this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1287	Thank you. Mr. Cilevič, would you have 10 minutes to break? Would you have had enough time for the debate to break? The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1288	Dear colleagues, ( The ring of noise.) Maybe you listen to me, don't you? You're not interested, I understand. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) But, colleagues, it would perhaps be interesting for you to know that both the draft law and the rapporteurs have deceived you; indeed, these amendments run counter to international standards. It was last night, Mr Asheraden, who now shows me his beautiful back, who took part in the discussion “Latvian Radio 4” in Russian and distributed false news. You lied publicly, Mr. Asheraden. You said that minority education does not exist anywhere in Europe. This is disinformation. There is a general principle that the more a minority is, the more widely the language of this minority is used in the education system. This is very easy to ascertain by reading both the basic documents and the national reports on their implementation. But you're not interested, of course I understand. More than that. This draft law goes far beyond the legislation of countries such as France and Greece, which do not even recognise minorities. They ban private schools... For example, there are private schools in Paris, where education is implemented in French and Russian and which receive subsidies from both local governments and from the state. Your bill bans this at all. More than that. There are a number of specific recommendations of international organisations, which are addressed directly to Latvia. There are both General Conventions... the conclusions of the consultative committee, the recommendations of several UN committees, the letter from the OSCE High Commissioner, and the opinions of the Venice Commission. Did either of you ever read it? Do you know about this? In fact, it is hidden or completely distorted by the government, as was the opinion of the Venice Commission last year. And you are still saying that you are loyal to European standards! Well, obviously Europeans like this are... And more generally, hypocrisy is amazing, because for all these institutions, the government sends beautiful reports in which black to white claims that education in eight minority languages is being implemented in Latvia. You can look at the Ministry's website, where it is still being claimed. Well, it's about duality, colleagues! The second is even more important. You are not interested in European standards, but you are also not interested in practical life. You simply do not know what is happening in schools that implement minority education programmes. Today, now, you really think, many of you think that all education is going on in Russian and almost in Russian curricula. You live in a world of stereotypes and myths. You are talking about a single education system. At present, the education system is unified, because standards are uniform, examinations are the same and all in the state language. That everyone will learn together... How does this happen? Well, think with your head! What's going to change? Because the same students will study in the same schools. How will you mix, and how will you mix those children? Because legislation just doesn't allow it. If already several children who live in Russian-speaking families go to Latvian schools, some - successful, some - not, but the administration of Latvian schools is not always happy about this and still tries to limit the number of such children at school. But the children will be the same: the same children will study at Bolderaja school or at the school in Kongarag... Where will Latvian children come from? What are you talking stupidly about learning together now?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Teachers. Well, today we have seen the situation with teachers. Of course, you are not interested in this either, but, believe me, in schools that implement minority education programmes, the problem is two to three times more than in Latvian schools. And with this bill, you're going to bring together a number of teachers from these schools. Who's gonna work there? The methodology. Indeed, in recent years, very effective methodologies have been developed in a number of schools - the methodology of linguistic education. The ministerial support was very limited. The Ministry, as always under control, demanded, punished and so forth, but these methodologies gained a very high international evaluation. Now all these techniques have to be thrown away. Again last night... Again, Mr Asheraden, who still shows me his beautiful back, could not answer any of the specific questions he was asked. ‘ We will think about how to tackle these problems." You're not going to think anything, and you're not going to think anything. And what will happen in practice? We now see that, with very few exceptions, schools, after all reforms, are not capable of providing quality education... and especially for children whose mother tongue is not a national language. And especially it became clear during the pandemic. So most parents have no other options... And the quality of children's education will get worse, and marginalisation will continue to increase. But in some groups... Parents who are concerned about the quality of their children's education will be more active in finding alternatives: home education, rehearsals. The same teachers you'll leave the schools will teach families about the same children's parental money, and you won't be able to control it at all. Once again, the state takes its full responsibility. Just as with medicine and a number of other areas: you want to be treated - paid! And now the same will happen with secondary education and primary education: you want to learn, you want a child to get a good education, you pay! And that's what happens. No research on the quality of real education is just not available. And I again... I read an annotation, and I see lies. Data from the National Language Centre state that all young people speak Latvian today. No data available. The knowledge of the state language is not enough to successfully compete in the labour market to join universities. These are pure stereotypes and prejudices. You don't have any figures to prove it. So what is the real cause, basis and purpose of these amendments? We have now heard this from the Minister: let everyone think the same. And we also heard from some of our colleagues in previous sittings, which is the basis: hatred and fear. Fear that he will cut his throat... Some paranoid thoughts... and so on. But, my fellow Members, I will be quite clear: it is no fear of the Russians and no hatred of the Russians alone. Just now, there's a situation where Russia's aggression in Ukraine... it can be used as a pretext for achieving its objectives. But basically it is hatred and fear of Muslims, gays and so on - it is hatred of other things. They are fear of diversity. And you who call yourself European, even liberal, have capitalized on that fearsome... In the face of the hateful President of the Isler. Now we see what's real cardinal in your coalition ( well, I won't mention the color here, there may be different versions). And it's no wonder that you're not achieving anything and you're not going to succeed. You're going to be allowed to put those iris flags in here, but that's all. You're not even the innocent... The ratification of the Istanbul Convention cannot be guaranteed, because your coalitions are headed by completely other people - those who hate and those who fear. I understand very well Mr. Shadursky, you really... It is your personal crusade against minority education. ( Milestones.) Well, and now you have to thank Putin - let's be honest - that at last you have the opportunity to implement your ideas, which you failed 18 years ago. I have to say that you have strong allies, Mr Shadursky. ( The box “Yes! ”) ) So, colleagues, you seem to want to achieve loyalty, integration, but, in your sense, the only sign of loyalty is the desire to assimilate. This is the 19th century concept, an absolutely archaic concept. You want to destroy the amphibian environment in Latvia, but in fact you will destroy the alternative to amphibian. ( Milestones.) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1289	Please call me! Please register the Members! ( The ring of noise.) Dear colleagues, attention to the announcement! On 10 June our colleague Reinis Znotiņš celebrated the round anniversary, and we congratulate him. (Applause) Thank you. Name For Inese Voika to read the registration results.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1290	Colleagues! Not registered: Aldis Blumbergs, Gundars Dauge, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, Raivis Dzintars, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Rihards Kols, Māris Kučinskis, Eva Mārtuža... Eva Mārtuzza is, Linda Medne... Also, Ralph Nemiro, Ramona Petraviča, Juris Pūce, Edmunds Teirumnieks, Jānis Urbanovičs, Viktors Valainis... Yes, Jānis Vucans, Atis Zakaistovs and Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis... I do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1291	Interruption until 5.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1292	Dear colleagues, Let's keep working after the break. On the agenda - draft law on amendments to the Education Law at first reading. Let us continue the debate. Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1293	Dear President, Dear colleagues, I support amendments to the Education Act, but what amendments? Not those you wrote. In my opinion, the amendments must be different, because 400 schools have been abolished in Latvia in 23 years. I have a question, Latvian colleagues: do you think Latvian children from the districts... from the counties will now be able to go to Riga to those former Russian schools and get an education? Not at all! I don't think it's on my fingers... the situation in the countryside will not improve and you simply dissect your audience by saying that they will need and benefit from this law. I would like to remind you that the Russian school in Latvia was invented not in Soviet times. The first Russian school in Riga was founded in 1789 at the time of the Great French Revolution. The school is located at the intersection between Turgineva and Gogola Street. Leave... A period of 233 years, but our Education, Culture and Science Commission spent only 30 minutes to complete education in Russian in Latvia. Unbelievable! To make it clear to those who do not focus on this subject, I will repeat that this is not about schools of the Russian Federation in the Republic of Latvia, but about those schools of Latvia in minority languages that are accredited and that have no less loyal citizens than Members of the National Alliance who do not listen, among other things, a very important subject, Mr. Iesalnieks. Without any rational reason, children of Latvia, most of whom are Latvian citizens, must now assume some collective responsibility for Moscow's actions, for Putin's activities and for international crimes in Ukraine. It was during the initial discussion of the draft law that a colleague, Kirštein, mentioned these motives, and today a colleague, Shadurski, and others. However, so far the system has worked perfectly normal. Children attended primary school. They can learn 50 percent of their teaching content in their mother tongue. Such a flexible (not clear to hear.) The approach gradually increased the proportion of Latvian. It allowed them to learn school subjects and language that they did not speak. In my opinion, it is not wise for young children to simply push them into a new language environment, when many children have difficulty even with their mother tongue before their teens. I see only the substance of political pre-elections in this draft law. Not surprisingly, the annotation says so much about occupation, deportation, russification and other sad events and abuses that ended more than 30 years ago. We currently live in Latvia, which is a country of the European Union, a country of NATO, we are not threatened with russification, we are threatened with poverty. I remember when Mr Shadursky was a minister for education and science, we had a lot to do with him, from 2003, 2004 to 2004. He said at that time that we would buy a computer for every teacher. Where are the computers, Mr. Shadursky? ( Internouncing call.) Currently - at the moment - the liquidation of schools, the degradation of schools - first in Latvian regions. I think that when we discuss amendments to the Education Law, we should talk more about the salaries of educators, about what happened to the Saeima today. It is also possible to discuss the artificial dawn around the admission of pupils in high school, with the absolute opacity of this process and additional hostxes, which tire out the students who are already tired of learning at a distance. Another topic should have been - the general drop in the level of education, because Latvia takes a rather shy place in international ratings and Olympics. Unfortunately, the new Minister for Education and Science, Mrs Muižniece, even though he sometimes had great expectations, did not justify our expectations, let us say, and there were no challenges at the heights. We can also remember that not so sad everything is in Latvian education. There were also good ministers for us, such as Robert Kiel, who, unfortunately, left us, were professionals, and I hope that there will be - when we decimate this government, let us decipher this coalition - and there will be a normal government of the people in Latvia and a coalition of the people. Please reject this bill in the current version.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1294	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1295	Dear colleagues! Some comments on the proposed legislation and on the debate that is taking place today. In principle, the issue that we are looking at today is extremely important, but it would be fair and fair to start, not to end, on issues of this kind. That's the point one. The genetic Russian actress, Faina Ranevska, often asked: “Which to whom shall we make friends?” I don't think there's anything that connects people with anything or anything like war. Here it is very easy to find allies, and in this case it is very easy to debate everything. But this question is not about it. And this is not about education. I think each of us asks himself today: what kind of society do I want to live in? And it seems to me that this is a fundamental issue which makes it useful to debate these very, I would say, sensitive things, such as education, culture, language. Today, it was assumed that a unified Latvian language is the basis for building a united society. If that were the case, I am sorry, there would not be as much disagreement in coalition parties today as it appears for all these four years and will also appear after the elections. Two Latvians - three parties. It was invented, not in Soviet times; it was an expression that appeared in the 1930s. That's what it is. It affects not only Latvians, it affects all who live in Latvia, who participate in Latvia's political life. And the testimony to this is also our picture, as the Saeima looks like today. Therefore, the question is not about the language of education; the question is what is the purpose of all this. A united society is a myth. The first assumptions that it can be created appeared already in the Middle Ages, and I think... Perhaps someone has read the book “The City of the Sun. ” A very interesting book. It sets out the objectives that Mr Shadurski spoke about today. But it is not and will not be, because society consists of different people, each of them is a personality, each of them has its own interests, its own values. A single society can only be formed on the basis of common values. And its values might most likely have been taken from the Ten Commandments. That's how it's formed. When we want to force someone to do only so and not otherwise, we forget that people are very different. That is why the project proposed today, to be honest, is not tended and is not aimed at achieving their goal of trying to unite people to some sort of one thing... uniform values. Language is a great value, a very important value, but, believe me, for every nation, it also has its own value for every language. So if you don't want to accept it, you have to respect it. This should be borne in mind at all times when you try to figure out or offer recipes that you consider to be good. This attempt today - it is neither in the right place nor in the right time - and cannot also achieve the objectives that the authors of this draft law might have intended to achieve. Therefore, I think maybe we should relax in the summer and only then return to the version that could really fit into the experience that was in the first Republic of Latvia in the pre-war period, which was in the history of Latvia's territory, where not only Russia, but also Sweden, Poland and some other countries and peoples went through, starting with the Livonian Order. Consider, too, how to deal better with such matters. The proposed solution model is not acceptable. Thank you. ( A few people go round.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1296	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1297	Dear Latvian society! For a long time, I tried to give myself an answer on how it would be better to educate my children. My children... At least one is at the age of starting schooling and starting schooling, and the other gradually joins. And I look - both from my life and from the surrounding life - at how education in the 21st century changes and develops and is essential for education in the 21st century. In today's circumstances, the fact that there is a catastrophicly low level of education in Latvia should be taken as a starting point. I'm sorry. Latvia lags significantly behind in its educational competition, including from its closest Estonian neighbours, Scandinavians. The tests of our children, young people, show a very sad picture. And then it's today's decision, which is just one of the elements why I'm on the table. I think... It is my subjective belief, and I will base it on a number of examples... I think if we ban something, we steal our children. By denying our children’s language, we are taking them seriously. And I can argue this with examples, not from my life, but from people who are more prosperous than me. Also from our state power... Leaders’ family lives, where children learn other languages, learn other languages, and all learning, and the whole learning process takes place in another language, especially for wealthy people. And then a big question arises: why do wealthy parents teach their children not in Latvian but in other languages: English, French, Chinese, German? And the answer is very simple - because wealthy people also have to be prosperous and competitive for their children. Competitiveness - this is an educational issue. We should discuss, not how we ban something, but how we strengthen - how we strengthen the provision of Latvian, how we strengthen the provision of other languages. Not by prohibiting, not by declaring, that our schools, including state-paid schools, will not be able to study in other languages. But why not? Why could a country not pay our children studies in any competitive and competitive language, a language in which international trade takes place, a language in which other forms of international cooperation take place? Why do we want to make our children more competitive? Why does every decision taken by our country in almost every area, from the major repairs of the financial system to the education of children in schools, lead to our country becoming increasingly uncompetitive and uncompetitive? And then we wonder that our people are getting poorer, that our country is becoming emptyer. It must be understood that education changes significantly in the 21st century, also due to different technical externalities. I see it by my family, by my child, and my child is not the only one. I would just set an example. Thank God, I can afford it - I can buy an extra course for a child in my family to teach maths or something else. In today's world, you can do this freely - enter the Internet, communicate with the teacher in English, Russian, German, Swedish and French. This is today's world. Language is an instrument. More recently, I was in a sports class where a young girl, up to 30, from the Netherlands... A girl from the Netherlands teaches German in sports classes at school because she is doing sports. Talking to children in French, talking to parents in English and doing everyday in another other language... Every day life happens. But we want our children to remain uncompetitive so that they remain exclusively with the Latvian language. We must honestly say that Latvian is not an international trade, international business and a similar competitive language. Yeah, that's our mentality. And the primary duty to teach Latvian to their children is to parents at home, reading fairy tales, working with their children, spending time on their holidays, after work. We are used to the fact that we, our society, where in fact a large part of society (and the statistics prove this) do not care for children... a large proportion of society who do not love or care for their children does not pay attention to it. But it is only normal that parents are dealing with their children, that it is parents - not teachers, but parents - who inspire values and language. We are used to having children raised by teachers. No, teachers do not need to raise children, teachers need to teach children something new. Children should be raised at home to the parents of their children. And that's why I formulated for myself... and I also call on the whole society to think about it substantially and deeply. Not for nothing many years ago... I understand that it is unrealistic to realize it in Latvia, because many will cry: then immediately Latvia will die and similar... but many, many years ago in Singapore, the Singaporean leader decided that everyone would learn English to become a competitive country in order to become a rich society. What does Singapore look like today compared to Latvia? Yes, for them all education takes place in English, everyone speaks English freely. We are talking about the fact that we want to approach Scandinavia. In Scandinavia everyone - from a small child almost to an old pensioner - is free and perfect... close to perfect... with rare, rare exceptions, speak a foreign language. And it's not taught at home by self-learning. It is part of the education system. The whole Scandinavian business, which is located in Latvia, takes place in a foreign language and does not take place in Swedish or Danish - takes place in international communication. It must be understood that language is just a tool for learning new knowledge, but mentality and values are those that parents teach at home. It is my duty to teach my children values, not to expect that the teacher will teach my children to speak Latvian. It's my job to teach them Latvian to speak. And I do it. But my task and my main duty is not to steal my children, to give them a future perspective - to be competitive, more competitive than Estonians or Lithuanians... or for Swedish children... German. I call on the general public to look at this issue much more widely, look beyond the flags, at the prisms, at the pastels, at the fact that we can be rich in our societies if we change our attitude and, above all, change our attitude towards the education system. A country can only become rich if it produces wise people, to put it vulgarly. And smart people cannot be created if we rob them intellectually, if we limit them and so on. The very idea of ‘prohibition’ is wrong on the ground. If we would like to highlight the special importance of Latvian language in schools, then instead of prohibiting other languages, we should talk from the bar today about how we will hire the best Latvian language specialists, the best authors of literature works in schools. For example, before the Second World War, the first independent Republic of Latvia was in school... It was imperative that our famous, all - known poets and writers should go and be presented. And it was normal, it was normal! Even today, if you want to get funding from the Culture Capital Fund, it would be only normal that the recipient of funding from the Culture Capital Fund, one of the authors of the book, named here, for example, a writer or writer, would go to school and be a teacher of the Latvian language. It would only be right for our society to benefit from it. Our children would benefit from it. Yeah, Chuck went to school and served, by the way. That's what it was. And that was right, and it was right! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1298	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1299	Colleagues, the public has recently become accustomed to reading only the headings, unfortunately. And there are a number of politicians who make very good use of it. Example: Today there were thousands of educators at the Saeima. They went home without waiting for the results, but we have the title “The Saeima’s leadership meets the educators”. When someone reads this title, it may seem that things can begin differently, because there is, however, a listening to each other and negotiations are under way, but these negotiations have not come to an end. Just like now, colleagues (I've also been watching this 12. In the Saeima, it's a fight for headlines. Just like then, Mr. Shadursky now... only then he was a minister, he went to the bar and told us we were... Pre-election during the debate, before the debate, so... we have ensured this reform and an even faster transition to training in Latvian. Then, of course, he tried to draw this flag out of his hands by the National Association. It was simply a fight between themselves on political titles. None of you who fought four years ago for this transition to take place more quickly have tested the results of this reform, the success that we are seeing at the moment. Partly today, what we heard from the teachers is reflected in what you have done four years ago. The lack of teachers in schools, large classes, load - all this is also the result of School2030 and also the result of this reform. You don't think about children, you don't think about the quality of teaching, you're just fighting for headlines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1300	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1301	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1302	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 58, no, 18, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1303	The deadline for proposals is 1 July.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1304	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 1 July this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on General Education”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Member Linda Medne.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1305	At its meeting on 10 June, the Commission for Education, Culture and Science also examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on General Education”. The aim of the law is to ensure a uniform approach to the transition to training in the state language by aligning it with the draft law on amendments to the Law on Education. The law shall enter into force on the day following its announcement, however, the draft law establishes a transitional period for the implementation of minority education programmes, providing that the exclusion of minority education programmes from the types of educational programmes shall take effect gradually, that is, on 1 September 2023 - for the implementation of general education programmes in classes 1, 4 and 7, on 1 September 2024 - for the implementation of general education programmes in classes 2, 5 and 8 and on 1 September 2025 - for the implementation of general education programmes in classes 3, 6 and 9. The Commission for Education, Culture and Science supported the progress of the draft law at its first reading. Please support the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1306	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the General Education Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1307	Here, too, the deadline for tabling proposals is 1 July. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1308	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 1 July this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” (No. 1463/Lp13), first reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Ritvars Jansons.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1309	Dear colleagues, The Commission for Education, Culture and Science has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” submitted by the members of the National Union for the first reading (No. 1453/Lp13). The draft law provides for the wording of Section 41(1.1) of the Education Law in a new version, stating that “the learning content of minority education programmes from Class 1 to Class 9 shall be provided in the state language in the amount of 100 per cent of the total training hours per year, including foreign languages”. Thus, the amendments provide that Section 41.1.2 of the Law, which determines the proportion of teaching content in the state language for minority programmes, is deleted accordingly. The draft law also supplements the transitional provisions with the rule that the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers are issued for the implementation of the new amendments provided for in Article 41, paragraph 1.1 of the draft law, by drawing up a plan for implementation of the transition to education in the state language to the appropriate extent in all state and municipal-funded educational institutions of primary education. Thus, amendments to the draft law provide for strengthening of norms on the acquisition of content in the state language from 1st to 9th class both in the law and by the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. In the Commission, the draft law was supported. Members decided to direct draft laws to the Saeima for approval, bearing in mind that at second reading it is possible to combine these amendments with the draft law “Amendments to the Education Law” on training in the state language... which Members have just supported at first reading. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1310	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Karl Shadursky.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1311	Dear colleagues, I would like to thank the Members of the National Alliance for this draft law. In our records, this came before the Ministry of Education and Science, which passed through the government's perspective. It could be agreed that this draft law could be combined with our just voted one, only dear colleagues, there is no one to combine, because the draft law promoted by the Cabinet of Ministers, which we supported today, has all been said. For example, we have had a lot of successive amendments to our language regulation in regulatory education documents, and perhaps the structure of these laws has become rather heavy. If we also had secondary education at the level of “minority education programmes”, after we moved to secondary school in the state language, this term “minority education programme” disappeared. Therefore, here, too, in fact, this term should disappear at the primary school stage, because it makes no sense to talk about a minority education programme, which is implemented as a hundred percent in the national language. Moreover, the term ‘minority education programme’ is a certain danger from the point of view that, if it is a minority education programme, it should theoretically differ from the national language of the programme. While working at the Ministry of Education and Science, we have always had the greatest problem of aligning the hours schedule, the weekly hours schedule, the Latvian language programmes and minority programmes, which always provided for more hours to learn minority language. So, given that the physical objects... Well, you can't teach Latvians mathematics, physics, chemistry for more than minority pupils, this number of hours must match. Hence, problems have always arisen there, and perhaps because of this, we have too little study time to learn STEM subjects. The fact that in this draft law, which we have already voted at first reading, minority language and culture are going through in the field of education of interest - it is perhaps one of the greatest benefits, because that is why we can... So it is moved to the second part of the day, after regular hours schedule, and we will be able to teach more children mathematics, physics, chemistry, biology, history, geography, sport and so on. This draft law, which has already been examined, is therefore more complete and complete. How do you say... The National Association has the honour of a first-covering agent in this small distance. And I can remind Isaac Newton when he said that he had been a giant in science. He has been a giant in science, as he said, just because he has steps on the giant shoulders. We're gonna be huge on our shoulders! I call for this draft law not to be directed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1312	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1313	Dear colleagues, We have just supported two draft laws that are actually giving up minority programmes. ( Internouncing call.) But with this draft law, colleagues of the National Alliance actually put us in such a controversial situation, because they propose a completely different concept - the preservation of minority education programmes. If we supported this draft law, we would actually not create a unified education system, but create different conditions for children whose family language is not Latvian. Is that really our goal? I don't think so. In view of what we have already supported, we should continue to give up minority education programmes directly. In that regard, it must be said that the conservative aim is precisely to continue the fragmented education system which, to some extent, would continue with this draft law. I therefore call for this draft law to be rejected - just as requested by the Legal Office at the meeting of the Committee on Education, Culture and Science on 10 June, and as requested by individual Members and the Ministry of Education and Science. That's it. I call for this to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1314	Name to Member Aigar Bikšem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1315	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Yes, we have voted in favour of two draft laws, the task of which is to reduce... or, let us say, make Latvia more united. This draft law, on which we will now vote, is conceptually contrary to that idea of one school in Latvia. This draft law also makes it possible to identify two different groups, and I think that is wrong. That's exactly what... In the Commission, we talked about this, and indeed the Legal Bureau made it clear that continuing to move in parallel with two such conceptually different draft laws is unjustified and unnecessary, and it will only hinder the achievement of the necessary objective. I think that if the objective is important, then also colleagues from the National Alliance will certainly understand and vote, perhaps 'no' to this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1316	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1317	Today, I would like to emphasise the positive fact that we are going to general education in the national language, and that was not so easy at all. As early as the end of February, when we had tabled a bill on the rapid transition to education in the state language, right here in Saeima's meeting room, this initiative was rejected with a lot. Then followed by this draft law, which was submitted by the National Association and which intended to prepare amendments to the Cabinet of Ministers further in order to ensure the transition to education in the state language. Then there are these draft laws - which is very good - prepared by the Ministry of Education and Science, where there is a majority support. The Education, Culture and Science Commission also considered it necessary to move forward with this draft law “Amendments to the Education Law”. The rapporteur responsible for the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Mr Janson, also said that they do not, by their very nature, contradict and there will be an opportunity to produce a joint text for the second reading, bringing these two draft laws together, so we will also support this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1318	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1319	On behalf of the Commission, I can say that the majority of committee members did not find such a radical conceptual difference between draft laws and led to the support of the draft law at first reading at the Saeima. I therefore call on the Commission to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1320	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 17, for - 51, for - 1. Draft law has been rejected. Draft law “Amendments to the Energy Efficiency Act”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy – Member Jānis Vitenbergs.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1321	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined and supported for the first reading the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Energy Efficiency” (No. 1511/Lp13). I would remind you that the draft law was designed to ensure that the requirements of the Energy Efficiency Directive were taken over and to remedy the shortcomings identified in the infringement procedure. And the main principles taken over: energy efficiency - first place... The operational objectives and tasks of the responsible authority - the State Construction Control Office - are specified. Clarifying support through a voluntary agreement. Specific rules for the application of the Energy Efficiency Law in large enterprises and also in large electricity consumers. There are competence requirements for energy efficiency service providers, as well as requirements for information on heating and cooling traders' bills. The Commission is asking for urgent action to be taken on the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1322	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Energy Efficiency". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1323	On behalf of the Commission, please support the first-reading legislative proposal on Amendments to the Energy Efficiency Act.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1324	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Energy Efficiency". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1325	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 27 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1326	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 27 June this year. And consideration of the Saeima sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1327	Second reading - next Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1328	After June 27?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1329	Yeah. So the second reading - in the next Saeima sitting after 27 June.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1330	Okay. So the final reading - after 27 June at the next Saeima sitting. Draft law “Amendments to the Energy Act”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy – Member Jānis Vitenbergs.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1331	The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has started work on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Energy” (No. 1503/Lp13) and supported the draft law for the first reading. The aim of the draft law is to establish principles for the operation of energy communities and active users, as well as to improve the net electricity system, thus promoting public involvement in the production of energy... for self-consumption. The draft law takes over, at the same time, the provisions of European Union legislation to promote the use of renewable energy sources and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The draft law promotes distributed generation capacity and self-consumption of energy from renewable sources, introduces new concepts (including ‘active user’, ‘energy communities’, ‘sharing of electricity’), as well as a framework for the operation of energy communities, and improves the net electricity system. Energy supply is developing and changing every day, changing very rapidly, so such changes to the law are necessary, for example, in order for households living close to each other to have a single solar panel park regulated how to share, use and transfer this energy produced. Moreover, the residents of apartment houses have a great interest in setting up, say, a solar panel park on the roof of the house, and this requires regulation on how their energy can be shared, consumed and also transferred to the network. The Commission is asking for urgent action to be taken on this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1332	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on energy law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1333	On behalf of the Commission, please support the first-reading legislative proposal on Amendments to the Energy Act.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1334	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on energy law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1335	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 7 July this year. And the second reading - in the next Saeima sitting after July 7, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1336	Thank you. So the deadline for the proposals is 7 July this year. Review - the next Saeima sitting after July 7. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy – Member Jānis Vitenbergs.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1337	Thank you. The Commission has supported the first reading of the draft law on the electricity market (No. 1504/Lp13). These amendments to the law take over the requirements of the directive to promote the use of energy from renewable sources. The draft law provides for a substantial improvement and modernisation of the net electricity accounting system. In addition to the current net accounting system, it is proposed to introduce a net settlement system that is based more on the market in a system that accounts not only for the amount of electricity delivered to the grid but also its value according to the specific situation in which the electricity is transferred or taken back. The net system is also intended to be opened up to legal entities; this has not been the case so far and has only been applied to households. Until now, legal entities have also pointed to the need and need to operate in this system. The net settlement system will increase the permitted capacity threshold to 50 kilowatts, which will be particularly suitable for households that have installed heat pumps, as there it is much higher consumption and demand. The threshold was 11.1 kilowatts and such households could not qualify. And it is planned to offer the possibility of so-called remote self-consumption to users of the net settlement system. In other words, you will be able to produce electricity in the countryside and consume it in the city, as such an innovative regulation will be included in these amendments. The following amendments are necessary: The Commission is therefore asking for urgent action to be taken on the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1338	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1339	Thank you. On behalf of the Commission, please support the first-reading bill on Amendments to the Electricity Market Act.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1340	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1341	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 7 July this year. And the second reading - in the next Saeima sitting after July 7, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1342	Thank you. So the deadline for the proposals is 7 July this year. Consideration at the Saeima sitting - after July 7, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1343	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1344	Draft law “Amendments to the Protection Zones Act”, first reading. Member Viesturs Liepkalns on behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1345	Hello, very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Protection Zones” before the first reading (No. 1509/Lp13). In recent years there has been a growing interest in the development of construction projects in defence zone areas around defence facilities in Latvia. This is mainly related to the increase in the actuality of alternative energy production, especially the construction of wind farms in the internal sea waters of the Republic of Latvia and the exclusive economic zone waters and land areas. As within the competence of the Ministry of Defence there is a question of restrictions in the protection zones around state defence objects, there is increasing interest and number of questions received about possibilities to develop wind parks directly in the protection zone areas. Construction of a certain object, wind park, in such cases may create physical obsolescence of air space surveillance or navigation techniques; this, in turn, significantly reduces the efficiency of the system, as well as increases the risk to national defence interests. The proposed amendments to the law would provide an opportunity in cases where natural or legal persons... Implementation of the construction project in the protection zone around the state defence facilities would be conceptually supportive – provided that certain compensatory measures are taken, the costs of which would be borne by the developers of these construction projects. The amendments provide that the amount of the compensation costs would be fixed and that the costs would be reimbursed by mutual written agreement, defining the nature and procedure of the compensation and taking into account the specific nature of each project and its impact on the functioning of the national defence facilities. The compensatory measure in question and the amount of the remuneration therefore depend on an expert assessment of the Ministry of Defence. The Commission has examined this draft law and decided to support it for the first reading. Colleagues, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1346	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Protection Zone Law at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1347	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 1 August of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1348	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 1 August this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Aviation”, first reading. Member Viesturs Liepkalns on behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1349	Colleagues! The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined and prepared for the first reading the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Aviation” (No. 1510/Lp13). The draft law is linked and is directed at the same time as the previous draft law, which has just been examined, “Amendments to the Law on Protection Zones”. This provides for a change in factually analogous nature so that such compensation mechanism is extended to military aerodromes for the safety of operations of potentially hazardous sites around military aerodromes. Consequently, the Commission also supported the examination of these draft laws at first reading. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1350	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Aviation” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1351	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 1 August of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1352	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 1 August this year. Draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on Budget and Financial Management’, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1353	President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues! Following the adoption of the 2022 budget, or at the end of 2021, the Head of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission sent a letter to all Members to make proposals on what the budgetary process should be. This letter was sent with the idea that, by its very nature, this Saeima will no longer have to adopt the budget for the following year, as it will already be done by the next Saeima. And that is why your proposals are very valuable, because you have gone through this whole budget cycle. Having received your letters and summarised them, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission held a meeting on 25 May this year, such as the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, in which we debated the budgetary process. The whole result is that we have agreed what we could change during the budgetary process. That is, we have agreed on two fundamental things. First, that we don't look twice... next year's budget and multiannual budget, actually the same proposal... two times. Secondly, that we look at the multiannual budget, or the multi-annual macroeconomic forecast, in April, and that we then have an economic debate that has not been held in the Saeima so far. So from 2023 we would have such a full debate - the economic debate - in which we, all Members, could participate and listen to what we then have that macro-economic framework. This is what this draft law on budgetary and financial management is actually talking about, which we are now looking at at at first reading. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission supported this draft law. Please support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1354	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1355	Dear colleagues, Such an initiative is welcome, but it will have little meaning, because we remember the reasons why there were so many accusations about the adoption of the previous budget. And that... more about that... it was the opposition who opposed it, but the position did not even try to defend itself's budget. And they were only votes. And if that goes on, then this very meaningful proposal will not make any special sense either. I think the coalition itself should look at itself and defend its adopted budget, and then the accusations to the government will be much smaller. That's been the case in the past. This practice was interrupted by the Saeima. So I had submitted such a letter to the Head of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission and I look forward to thinking about it for the next budgets.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1356	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add, please?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1357	Thank you, my colleague Valaini. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission supported the adoption of the first-reading draft law on amending the Law on Budget and Financial Management. Please do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1358	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on budgetary and financial management! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1359	The deadline for submitting proposals is August 31 this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1360	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 31 August this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1361	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1362	Draft law “On recognition of Diāna Mejas Mathuras as a citizen of Latvia”, first reading. on behalf of the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity - Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1363	Colleagues! The draft law is designed to recognise Diana Meju Mathur as a citizen of Latvia as a citizen of the United States of America. She is married to a U.S. citizen of Latvian origin. Three children were born in marriage. Spouse and children as descendants of Latvian exiles have acquired citizenship of Latvia. The Commission for Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity received an application from Mathura requesting that she be admitted to the citizenship of Latvia. She states in her application that she is actively involved in the activities of American Latvian Diaspora organizations, is the author of the historical book series “Liepa un Legionāris”. The books depict the events of the Second World War, explain the history of Latvia and reflect the struggle of Latvian legioners against the power of occupation. The applicant for citizenship points out that she wants to spend as much time in Latvia as possible to integrate Latvian society and improve Latvian language skills, continue writing historical novels, publish them in Latvian and promote the international recognition of these books. The honorary consul of the Republic of Latvia in California, representatives of the organisations of the Latvian Diaspora in America and public employees expressed their support for her desire to acquire Latvian citizenship. The Commission requested the Office of Citizenship and Migration Affairs to carry out a verification of compliance of the applicant with the provisions of the Citizenship Law and received a reply that Latvian responsible authorities do not have information to which any restrictions referred to in Article 11 of the Citizenship Law would apply. The Authority also indicated that she could not claim Latvian citizenship under naturalization, because she has no established legal status in Latvia. The Commission evaluated the submitted documents, met with the applicant for citizenship and listened to her explanation of the motivation to obtain Latvian citizenship and future ideas. Having assessed all the information received, the Commission supported the recognition of citizenship of Latvia to Mathura with a special law. At the meeting of the Commission, she promised her confidence in the Republic of Latvia. In view of her active involvement and participation in the activities of the American Latvian Diaspora organizations, the Commission proposes to accept Diāna Meju Mathuru as a citizen of the Republic of Latvia, taking into account the circumstances of her individual situation and other considerations. The Commission shall request that draft laws be examined as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1364	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “On the recognition of Diāna Mejas Mathuras as a citizen of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1365	Please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1366	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the bill “On the recognition of Diāna Mejas Mathuras as a citizen of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1367	Given that the draft law was approved unanimously by the Commission as well as by the Saeima, I now ask you to consider the draft law at second, final, reading as well.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1368	Are Members opposed to the final reading of the draft law without re-examination by the committee responsible? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There are no objections. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “On the recognition of Diāna Mejas Mathuras as a Latvian citizen” in the second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent on behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Normunds Gunna.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1369	Colleagues! The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs has prepared for second reading the draft law “Amendments to the law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance””. One proposal was received for the second reading. It was submitted by Liva Kreituse, Member, and provides for the addition of Article 10.4 of the Law, with the seventh paragraph, as follows: ‘The period of payment of the parental allowance shall be extended for the period of maternity leave if the child was born before the date on which the maternity leave was granted.’ The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1370	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Liva Kreitus.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1371	Hello! Some time ago, I learned from another mother that the amount of benefit for prematurely-born parents is generally lower than for parents who were-born within the period prescribed by the doctor, and that at the end of parental leave, up to five unpaid months come to the end of the parental leave - unlike the parents who were born at the time, for whom they are only two months. My mother has two children, both of whom were born prematurely. One was born at week 24 of pregnancy and the other at week 25 (normal pregnancy is 37 to 40 weeks). The weight of both was less than the weight of the sugar sachet - 700 to 800 grams, but it is a pleasure that both fishers are now grown up and feel good. Each year about a thousand children are prematurely born in Latvia. After giving birth, mothers spend at least three to six months in the hospital until the child is able to breathe independently and is ready to go home. Therefore, in any family, this time is challenging. Even after leaving the hospital, however, it is not always all right. Early births develop at a pace that does not always coincide with peers. Therefore, the medically adjusted age of the child is determined. If the actual age is six months and the child is two months earlier, the adjusted age will be four months. Consequently, children also develop more slowly and reach their peers only at the age of about two years. In such situations, it often happens that at the actual age of one and a half, when the kindergarten should begin, the child has not developed enough, perhaps even climbing, not because the child has any disability, but simply because the child develops according to his or her adjusted age rather than his or her actual age. That is why it is precisely this period of parental leave that is very important. My initial offer was for all children born prematurely (i.e. up to 37 weeks of pregnancy)... extend this period of parental benefit by determining: for how long the child was born, that period of benefit shall be extended for that period. But in view of the short, limited time... Such amendments require huge changes in laws, e-health and other databases; they are no longer possible at this time. But together with the Ministry of Welfare, it was possible to come to a solution whereby all babies born before their mother began maternity leave... that the period in question is extended by the payment of the parental allowance. I call for support. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1372	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1373	Colleagues, I'll keep on the headlines. We will probably also read the following title: a Member has achieved something - the parents of children born prematurely can at last really get fair treatment from the country. However, I remember - and this Mrs may also remember - that two years ago (Dep. L.Kreituse's intermediate call)... Yeah, you weren't, that's exactly... Members Aldis Gobzems, Didzis Šmits, Jūlija Stepanenko, Linda Liepiņa and Karina Sprūde submitted a qualitatively designed draft law that provided support for parents of premature babies and, of course, that draft law also... the calculations were made and it was indicated that for months, as many weeks as the children have rushed ahead of their age, the parents should be compensated before the doctor's age... Of course, it is no easier than to borrow a foreign job and plant yourself in front of us. But, thank you for that. I understand that you could not have done it in any way. In this case, however, I would like to point out that, in an attempt to take a foreign job, it is necessary to do so in a way that does not damage it. Unfortunately, in this case... this good idea, which we led two years ago and which unfortunately lay in a drawer to Mr Skride and was partly supported... Previous bill... working also in the working group has been damaged. It's ruined because each other really wants to get a title... Pre-election in debate... that he has allegedly reached the goal of supporting the parents of premature babies. Unfortunately, this is only about those children who were born about 30 weeks ago. And you can imagine that after this bill... very many parents will feel disappointed because that is not what we wanted to achieve at the time by presenting this draft law with colleagues and fighting for parents' rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1374	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1375	This proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1376	Are Members asking for a vote on proposal 1? Is the vote on proposal 1 being requested? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of 1. - the proposal tabled by Member Liva Kreituses! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1377	Please support the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance” at second, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1378	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance” at second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. On the agenda - consideration of the draft decision. Draft decision “On Extension of the Time Limit for Submission of Proposals in the Draft Law “Amendment to the Time and Application of the Law “On Introduction to the Civil Law of the Renewed Republic of Latvia, the Law of 1937, the Law of the Republic of Latvia on the Right of Success and the Rights of Cases”” (No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on extension of the deadline for submission of proposals in the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Time and Procedure of Entry into Force of the Renewed Civil Law of the Republic of Latvia of 1937, Rights of Heritage and Rights of Cases” (No. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. On the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Draft decision “On withdrawal of Member Jānis Dūklavs from the Commission for Sustainable Development”. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Jānis Dūklavs from the Commission for Sustainable Development! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 74, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Maris Kučinskis from the National Security Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Maris Kučinskis from the National Security Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 57, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of Member Jānis Dūklavs to the National Security Commission. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1379	Dear people, I would call on you to vote in favour because I have been sitting next to Mr Dūklav for years. I have not heard from Mr. Dūklavs at this time any name that would start with the letter L. There was no “L” in the vicinity of the letter at all at this time. It is therefore necessary to reject (Interim.) all its unfounded suspicions. ( Internouncing call.) If we're talking about security. Today, even before we were in office, we suspected that all this listening at that procremal end was more or less complex. It is clear there that you will no longer be able to speak after this vote. The third thing is that this gentleman absolutely needs to be placed in the appropriate commission, because not only can he be entrusted with the secret of the state, but also with grandchildren. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1380	I closed the debate. ( Milestones.) Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Mr Janis Dūklavs to the National Security Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 51, against - 1, refrains - not. Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, Members Ainars Latkovskis, Juris Pūce, Krišjānis Feldmans, Jānis Dombrava and Iveta Benhena-Beeken are asking for changes to the agenda of the Saeima sitting and the referral of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Political Organisations (Parties)” to be discussed before agenda item 48 – draft decision “On Distrust to the Member of the Prime Minister Janis Bordans”. Do Members have objections? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) Thus, there is no objection by Members. So we will look at “No!” ) Thus, there is no objection by Members. We will therefore examine the draft law. So, the Bureau reports on the draft laws that have been tabled. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Political Organisations (Parties)” submitted by Member Māra Možvillo, Ramona Petraviča, Ieva Krapāne, Erika Pucens and Karina Sprūde be referred to the National Administration and Local Government Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Maris Možvillo.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1381	Colleagues, I won't say anything new, as I already say about this law... proposal... I'm talking. Please support... and I will ask the Commission to make this draft law urgent so that we can match the law of political parties at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1382	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law... And the objections? ( Milestones.) Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Interfaces: “No! ”) ) There are no objections. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Dear colleagues, Members Krišjānis Feldmans, Juris Pūce, Anda Čakša, Arvils Aseradens and Līva Kreituse are asking for changes to the agenda of the Saeima sitting and to include the draft law “Law on Civil Union” in the third reading. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( The box “Yes! ”) “Yes!” ; “Let’s vote!” ) Please call us! We will vote for the draft law on civil union law to be included on the agenda for the third reading. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 36, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, There's no quorum. Please call me! We will vote on amendments to the agenda to include the draft law on civil union in the third reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 35, for - no, for - 1. Neither is there a quorum. Since there is once again no quorum in the sitting (interim) The sitting will be closed. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name For Inese Voika to read the registration results.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1383	Colleagues! Not registered: Raimonds Bergmanis, Aldis Blumbergs, Gundars Dzintars, Raivis Dzintars, Marija Golubeva, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Rihards Kols, Ieva Krapāne, Maris Kučinskis, Atis Leiiņš, Ralfs Nemiro, Ramona Petravičs, Ēriks Pucens, Edmunds Teirumnieks, Jānis Urbanovičs, Jānis Vucāns, Atis Zakaitistovs and Reinis Znotiņš. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-16-PT13-2395-U1384	The questions put by Members. Members Vitalijs Orlovs, Jānis Krišāns, Zenta Tretjaka, Jānis Tutins and Edgars Kucins submitted a question to the Minister for Economics “On the procedure for evaluating the LNG terminal project in Latvia”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. Members do not want to ask questions. On the question of Member Vital Orlova, Jānis Krišāns, Zenta Tretjaka, Jānis Tutina and Edgars Kucina, Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “On additional information and necessity to explain the validity of the answers given regarding Members’ questions “On the readiness of the Latvian Government to help Latvia’s society and economy in a meaningful way to overcome the energy crisis””. The question was referred to the Minister for Welfare. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. Members do not want to ask additional oral questions. Members Sprūde, Pucens, Petraviča, Krapāne and Možvillo put forward the question “On the documents governing the Emergency Medical Care Service and the hospital activities regarding Covid-19 hospitalization of patients”, which is submitted to the Minister of Health. Members Stepanenko, Švecova, Možvillo, Gobzems and Sprūde submitted the question “On the situation of SJSC “Latvijas Dzelzceļš”” that we hand over to the Minister of Transport. Members Stepanenko, Švecova, Možvillo, Sprūde and Gobzem submitted the question “On Energy Efficiency of Housing and Buildings”, which is submitted to the Minister of Environment. Members Rubiks, Agešins, Kucins, Krišāns and Ribakovs submitted a question “On the validity of the draft law on facilitating the construction of wind power plants for energy security and independence, driven by your government, and its compliance with the declared objectives of promoting energy security and independence”, which we submit to the Prime Minister for reply. Members Stepanenko, Švecova, Možvillo, Gobzems and Sprūde submitted the question “On Real Estate Tax”, which is submitted to the Minister of Justice for reply. Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
