ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber. We will begin to review the agenda of the meeting of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 22 September this year. agenda of the sitting First of all, the amendments tabled to the Bureau's agenda. The Legal Commission asks for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the State Cadastre of Real Estate” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking for the draft law “Amendments to Land Management Law” to be included on the agenda of the meeting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is asking for the draft law Amending the Law on Financial Stability to be included on the agenda of the meeting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Budget and Finance (tax) Commission asks to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Excise Tax” (No. 1604/Lp13). Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption is asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Support Law”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission asks for the draft law “Law on the provision of the status of Latvian as the only state language” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this work (Interface: Vote!) )... Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Law on ensuring the status of Latvian language as the only state language” to be included on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 63, for - 19, for - 1. The draft law is on the agenda of the sitting. The Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs is asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. And the Commission has asked for the draft law to be included under the heading ‘Provisions of draft laws’ as a third question before agenda item 13. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Viktors Valainis, Jānis Dūklavs, Jānis Vucāns, Uldis Augulis, Janīna Jalinska and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Excise Tax” (No. 1628/Lp13). ‘ For” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U2	Good morning, dear colleagues! More and more recently, we are hearing different political opinions about what should be done to mitigate the consequences of rising energy prices for people, and sounding... Among other things, there is a proposal from government members that excise duties on fuel should also be reduced. We, fellow Members, are already proposing to present to the Saeima today, voting and starting work on a draft law aimed at reducing excise duty on fuel. I would just remind you that such incentives exist in a number of European countries and that several European countries are currently in direct competition with our farmers, food producers, taking advantage of this market advantage that in their countries, the excise duties on fuel are many times lower, and this gives them an advantage of their competitiveness. We also call on Latvia to equalize this situation and reduce excise duty, as I will remind colleagues, fuel prices. The fact that it is no longer EUR 2 does not mean that EUR 1.70 or EUR 1.80 is a normal price. ( Internouncing call.) In our view, this price must be substantially lower. And with tax instruments, we can achieve this. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to support this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U3	Do Members object to the inclusion of a draft law on the agenda of the sitting? ( Milestones.) Members want to vote. Please call me! Vote on the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”” (No. 1628/Lp13) inclusion on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 35, for - 51, for - 1. Draft legislation is not on the agenda of the sitting. Members Viktors Valainis, Jānis Dūklavs, Jānis Vucāns, Uldis Augulis, Janīna Jalinska and others are asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Real Estate Tax” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U4	Dear colleagues, The fact that the reform of cadastral values has been postponed from year to year has been one of the greatest successes of this Saeima! And at the end of the day... we currently have very significant differences in the cadastral value of the market projected value against what is today. If we look at what the Ministry of Justice and the State Land Service are working on right now... If the cadastral values enter into force at the moment we set it by law, the citizens will be inexpensive even if the municipality gives them a 90 per cent relief for this tax... that has already been established in many places. Dear colleagues, within four years... many parties who promised it in their pre-election program... I would remind you that this is an opportunity to try again and nevertheless to support the rule that the only housing is exempt from real estate tax. In this draft law, we also foresee that it cannot be at the expense of local governments, a way to compensate local governments must be found in the state budget. But now, in our view, all the more so - looking at the winter ahead, the exemption from real estate tax for the sole house is a normal solution, which we would also call for... that is exactly what, unlike the benefit policy currently being pursued by the government, is to reduce the cost of living for the people of Latvia by means of tax instruments. I call for support for the bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U5	Do Members object to the inclusion of a draft law on the agenda of the Saeima sitting? ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Members wish to vote. Please call me! We will vote for inclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the law “On Real Estate Tax”” in the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 34, against - 53, refrains - not. Draft law shall not be included on the agenda of the sitting. Members Viktors Valainis, Jānis Dūklavs, Jānis Vucāns, Uldis Augulis and Janīna Jalinska are asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” (No. 1630/Lp13). ‘ For” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U6	Dear colleagues, This draft law is specially prepared for Latvian seniors, for all those who currently pay a significant price for the medicine, but especially for the party association Development/About, represented in the Saeima's meeting room. Dear colleagues from Development/About! Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Your Ministry of Health... I would like you to try even a little bit to dispel the doubts that your minister is working, let us say so, in the populism regime. Your Minister came up several months ago with an information report that the value added tax on medicines should be reduced, that it is important; he came up with a whole analysis that it is necessary to do so now and now. On the other hand, the National Association is doing this for the various foods - as if at ministerial level this is what is talking about - but when we get to the Saeima, do not go ahead with the vote. It's the same now... Development/About!... This is, in a way, the rise of the opposition. In a way, you have heard it at government level, as if the information report had been prepared, as if it were all clear that this tax on medicines should be reduced. Regulated market... It is clear that these medicines will really remain cheaper at the moment we take this decision. There is no question that prices will remain at the same level; this may be a discussion on other issues when we look at reduced VAT. This will certainly happen in this case. I call on you, fellow Members, to support it now, to start discussions now, not to postpone it to the next Saeima, because, who knows, maybe in the next Saeima there will be the same as other issues that have forgotten immediately after the elections, and not just... we know that. The previous vote on real estate tax... The Conservative Party has long forgotten that they have had such a promise, no longer trying to fight. I call on you to start doing this now, not waiting for another moment, after four years. Maybe you won't have that moment. I call for this draft law to be voted on now.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U7	Do Members object to the inclusion of a draft law on the agenda of the sitting? (Interface: “Balsot!” ) Please call us! To be put to the vote on the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax (No. 1630/Lp13) included on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 36, for - 51, for - 1. Draft law shall not be included on the agenda of the sitting. The Foreign Affairs Commission asks for the draft decision on referendums organised by the Russian Federation in the occupied territories of Ukraine to be included on the agenda of the meeting. And the Members Rihards Kols, Krišjānis Feldmans, Jānis Cielēns, Raivis Dzintars, Ivars Puga and others ask for it to be discussed as the first item on the agenda of the sitting and also to be reviewed to the end. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. So the draft decision - the own-initiative proposal - is on the agenda as the first issue in the sitting and the proposal - is on the agenda as the first issue in the sitting, and Members have no objections to its finalisation. Members Jānis Vitenbergs, Kārlis Šadurskis, Juris Pūce, Krišjānis Feldmans and Raivis Dzintars are asked to include on the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the law on support for the economic consequences of sanctions and countermeasures against Ukraine”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Let us start by looking at the amended agenda. On the agenda - reports by the Bureau on own-initiative proposals submitted. The Foreign Affairs Commission has submitted its own proposal - draft decision on the referendums organised by the Russian Federation in the occupied territories of Ukraine. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There are no objections. Consequently, the own-initiative proposal - the draft decision - is on the agenda of the Saeima sitting. And when we decide on the changes to the agenda of the sitting, we have also decided to put it to the end. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U8	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members, honourable Members, In response to recent events - the news from the authorities of the Russian Federation and the so-called 'Administratives' of the Russian Federation and separatist territories of Ukraine - and in response to the call of the Highest Ukrainian Rada to the UN, the European Commission, the European Parliament, the Council of Europe, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe and their parliamentary assemblies, as well as to the governments and parliaments of the world, not to recognise the organisation of the so-called'referendums' of the Russian occupation administrations and any results thereof in the temporarily occupied areas of Ukraine, the Foreign Commission yesterday adopted a statement entitled 'On referendums organised by the Russian Federation in the occupied areas of Ukraine', while agreeing to direct this statement to the Saeima for approval. The content of the notification. In the statement we condemn Russia's plan to organise and fully support illegal referendums on the accession of occupied Ukrainian territories to Russia planned for 23-27 September this year; we stress that any referendums in Russia's temporarily occupied Ukrainian territories are contrary to Ukrainian law, constitution and international law. The honourable colleagues will read the full text of the statement: ‘Declaration by the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on referendums organised by the Russian Federation in the occupied areas of Ukraine’, the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia: in view of the call of 11 August 2022 by the Supreme Ukrainian Rada to the United Nations, the European Commission, the European Parliament, the European Council, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Ukraine and their parliamentary assemblies, and the governments and parliaments of the countries of the world not to recognise the so-called referendums organised by the Russian Federation in the occupied areas of Ukraine and any results thereof; recalling that the irreparable invasion of the Russian Federation in the territory of Ukraine constitutes a gross violation of Ukrainian sovereignty and territorial integrity, which has been expressed in violation of the obligations stemming from Article 2 of the Charter of the United Nations and from the mandatory international rules of law of the Russian Federation, as well as those entered into by Russia by signing a Memorandum of Budapest and assuming the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine; pointing out that the Russian Federation, through the implementation of a major military aggression against Ukraine, continues its efforts to illegal annexisation of the anti-abso-free access to the anti-dumping treatment of anti-dumping measures in the anti-dumping regime with respect of anti-treatment of the anti-treatment of the anti-treatment of the anti-treatment of anti-treatment of anti-pro-pro-sup proceeding and anti- a anti-treatment of anti- a anti-treatment of anti- a anti- a anti- a antissssss proceeding proceeding proceeding proceeding proceeding proceeding proceeding proceeding proceeding proceeding against against against anti anti antissssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss against against against against against against against soleidididididdddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddd stresses that the referendums organised by the Russian Federation are in conflict with the Charter of the United Nations and with the constitution of Ukraine, that they will not have legal force and that Latvia will not recognise either this referendum or the legitimacy of any of its results; reiterates its strong support for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine, its constant commitment not to recognise the illegal annexation of Crimea and to provide support for Ukraine's deeper integration into the Euro-Atlantic area; calls on the international community not to recognise the so-called referendums planned by the Russian Federation and the occupied territories of Ukraine and the results of any other kind of "men's will" and not to recognise the Russian Federation's passports issued in the occupied areas of Ukraine; calls on the Euro-Atlantic community and its partners to urgently strengthen sanctions against the Russian Federation in order to weaken the ability of the Russian armed forces to continue the military aggression in Ukraine; to increase military, financial, humanitarian and diplomatic support for Ukraine; to unanimously support the initiatives condemning Russian military activities in Ukraine and calling on the crown to be held responsible; to continue to impose on Russia from international and regional organisations, as well as an equivalent solution to Russia's military sanctions against Russia's and to the Russian's's's's's's'. End of notification. Colleagues, I would remind you that the Saeima has previously decided on similar attempts from Russia to legitimise its aggressive, imperialist expansion in the territories of other sovereign countries. In 2014, the Saeima strongly condemned Russia's aggression in Crimea as a gross violation of Ukrainian sovereignty and territorial integrity from the point of view of international law, expressing that Latvia considers the annexation of Crimea illegal and refuses to recognise Russia's de facto power in this Peninsula. As in 2014, it is now a clear violation of international rules, including the Charter of the United Nations, the Helsinki Final Act of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the Council of Europe Statute, the Budapest Memorandum of 1994, openly and purposefully endangers the security and stability of Ukraine's region and Europe as a whole. Colleagues, like the international community, have already stated in advance that the referendum held under the conditions of military occupation is and will not be legitimised and its results will not be recognised. I also call for this to be announced now, before the latest planned referendums in the next few days, by rejecting this Russian fatal combined approach to foreign policy as an unlegitimate approach. Dear colleagues, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I call on the Saeima to support the statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U9	Thank you. Let us start a debate. on behalf of the Group. - Member Arthur Rubik.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U10	Good morning, colleagues! Members of the Social Democratic Party Group will not take part in this (Interinstitutional) group. in the vote on the Saeima statement on referendums organised by the Russian Federation in the occupied territories of Ukraine. It is clear that referendums in areas where active military activity is taking place are not considered legitimate and their results are not internationally recognised. Consequently, the submission by the National Association (Interdependence.) the text has no other motivation than to re-use the Saeima Tribunal as the pre-election site. In the absence of a successful management of the economic sector entrusted to him, the National Association focuses on simulation activities in the field of foreign affairs. SASKAJA Members believe that the activities of the National Association have long focused on disintegrating Latvian society, insulting Russian-speaking Latvian citizens, questioning their loyalty. This creates dangerous tensions, especially in the current circumstances. The Agreement does not consider it possible to support, through its participation in such votes, a political force which is considered to be divided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U11	Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U12	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I cannot fail to respond to such demagogy on the part of the Group. It is clearly stated that this is a statement by the Saeima prepared by the Foreign Affairs Commission. The Foreign Affairs Commission unanimously supported the statement prepared by the Foreign Affairs Commission to be guided as a draft statement by the Saeima at yesterday's meeting, with the exception of Members who are not present at the meeting of the Foreign Affairs Commission, who do not consider it an obligation to participate in the work of the Foreign Affairs Commission. The reciprocating rhetoric and lexics clearly indicate that deep-seated Members of SASKA likely hope that the occupied territories will be included in the Russian Federation. I think that this is a dangerous guide, which is both in the party “Condition” and in its political group, and it should be the worst warning signal for everyone in Latvia, taking part in 14. The Saeima's election. Please take this into account and be guided accordingly by today's vote on the parliamentary statement prepared by the Foreign Affairs Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U13	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U14	On behalf of the Commission, everything has been said. I invite the Saeima to support the announcement of the Saeima by the Foreign Affairs Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U15	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the referendums organised by the Russian Federation in the occupied territories of Ukraine! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 69, against and refrains. Decision adopted. On the agenda - reports from the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the Member Viktoras Valaiņa, Ulda Augulis, Armands Krauze, Janina Jalinska, Romana Moneys and other draft laws presented "Amendments to the Act on the Exceptional Increase in Energy Prices" be referred to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, which states that it is the Commission responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U16	Dear colleagues, At present, the law on measures to reduce exceptional increases in energy prices, which is in force, certainly does not achieve the objective of reducing and... making people affordable energy sources. Dear colleagues, the limits set by this law have been revised several times, the limits set in June, and the government throughout the summer did not substantially improve this law... by presenting this bill to the Saeima in September... In August, when we adopted it, these limits are clearly too high - from which we start paying support for energy price increases. Similarly, the total amount of aid laid down in that law is too low. For citizens, this law will not improve life by its very nature, this law will make life more difficult, because if a person receives EUR 400 or EUR 300 for the heat of a two-room apartment in Purvciems, there is no significant difference - it is impossible to pay either. It is therefore necessary to change the basic approach in this law and to set the ceilings from which the aid begins to be paid at a lower level. For example, it was praised that the wood would be eligible for aid. In the sense of this bill, a person pays twice as much for the wood anyway and returns two euros from the rise there. Is it support, is it a blinding of the eyes? The same applies to apartments for which heating bills will come. Look carefully at what the draft law sets out. The ceiling of aid, from which you start to pay at all, is already double, these bills are already double, and only then do you start to pay aid. And if your invoice (as in Ķekava) increases four times, then the aid intensity... ceiling is already laid here, and these ceiling... their maximum amount they receive... they still have a huge bill. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I call on us to support... and review these limits. The Union of Greens and Farmers believes that these limits are not fair; these limits must be set... both lower thresholds and higher aid intensities in general. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I call for support for this draft law and for discussions to be launched within the commissions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U17	“Pret” has applied to speak to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U18	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, We sometimes have quite interesting things going on in the Saeima. Yesterday... I think I should have spoken in my place, for example, to the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics, but well... Yesterday, a meeting of the Commission on Sustainable Development was held, which also addressed the issue of support mechanisms during the energy crisis (by the way, some of the colleagues who signed this draft decision of the Saeima are members of that committee.) and were heard reports from both the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Welfare... which have prepared a new aid package containing price caps for electricity, gas, heating and so on. The total amount of the proposed package is EUR 808 million in financial terms. And we, fellow Members, - but we are one Saeima - should follow what is happening, and if what on the Saeima's website yesterday was also a statement... press release on this. So, colleagues, at least from the Ministry of Economics, we hear proof that this new aid package will be presented to the government next week, and we hope that, in two weeks' time, these documents, if the government does not hesitate, will also come to the Saeima. Thank you for your attention. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U19	So, honourable colleagues...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U20	I repeat, we are talking about support of EUR 808 million. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U21	One Member has spoken for, one against. Let's vote! Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax) the draft law "Amendments to the law on exceptional increases in energy prices", which states that it is the commission responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Social Security” presented by Mr Valērija Agešina, Mr Jānis Urbanoviča, Mr Sergeja Dolgopolova, Andreja Klementjeva and Vital Orlova be referred to the Social and Labour Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Valery Agešins.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U22	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, In order to mitigate the negative impact of rapid inflation on the welfare of the population, three draft laws prepared by the Saeima were submitted for consideration: “Amendment to the Law on Social Security”, “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits” and “Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance”. The purpose of these amendments is to index all fixed benefits, including family state benefits. I would like to remind you that, in order to mitigate the negative impact of inflation, the Saeima decided in July this year to carry out the indexation of public pensions two months earlier, with pensions being increased by an average of 23 per cent, but the guaranteed minimum income or GMI level, despite high inflation, is still not indexed. The guaranteed minimum income benefit is a material aid for the payment of the minimum daily expenses. These daily expenditures have increased significantly as a result of inflation and the amount of this allowance is no longer in line with the current socio-economic situation. The minimum income guaranteed by these people is still calculated from 2018 statistics. Taking into account the significant increase in consumer prices, it can be concluded that the guaranteed minimum income level - 109 euros for the first person or the only person and 76 euros for the other persons in the household - is not sufficient to cover even the purchase of food, not to mention expenditure such as housing and health care. This is contrary to the statutory requirement that basic needs are food, clothing, housing, health care, compulsory education. Taking into account the rulings of the Constitutional Court regarding the threshold of guaranteed minimum income, the Saeima and the Government amended regulatory enactments, however, in our opinion these amendments were formal, because the increase of guaranteed minimum income threshold from 109 to 125 euros planned in 2023 will not be sufficient to ensure a decent life for our fellow citizens. Ombudsman Juris Jansons has also called on the government to review the minimum income levels for guaranteed minimum income and state social security benefits from October 2022. The purpose of the amendments is to instruct the Cabinet of Ministers to review the amount of the guaranteed minimum income threshold by 15 October 2022 and its review procedure in order to compensate for the impact of rapid inflation on the social security of the poor, in line with the current socio-economic situation, starting from 1 November 2022. Such amendments will protect those with the lowest income and reduce the risk of poverty in society. From the state budget, this objective should ensure the necessary co-financing of municipalities for paying the indexed guaranteed minimum income benefit from 1 November 2022. This should result in a reallocation of appropriations into the 2022 budget, with budgetary resources for raising the guaranteed minimum income threshold and paying the benefits. I would like to remind you that the European Commission and the OECD have pointed out that the minimum income thresholds need to be revised annually, not every three years, because otherwise the reduction of income inequalities and the risk of poverty is being delayed. I call on you to vote in favour of this and two future draft laws, as this is a single package. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U23	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Social Security” to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 30 (Interfaces: “No!” ), against -51, refrains - not. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the member Valija Agešina, Jānis Urbanoviča, Sergeja Dolgopolova, Andreja Klementjeva and Vitaly Orlova refer the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits” to the Social and Labour Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits” to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance” presented by Member Valija Agešina, Jānis Urbanoviča, Sergeja Dolgopolova, Andreja Klementjeva and Vital Orlova be referred to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Andrejs Klementjevs.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U24	Good morning, honourable Members! I am quite shocked by the fact that you did not support these draft laws, because today the reality is that we need to index both benefits (inter-sac.) And to review... No, no, well, I also tried last week to convince you to hand over to the commission. I understand, perhaps in the Commission somewhere we, as a group, are drawing up an inaccurate bill, but you can listen to it, think about and look at people. ( Milestones.) I'm bothered by Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U25	Interscans by Order reel are allowed.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U26	But he says so loudly that to me (interface: “Yes!” )...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U27	Please continue the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U28	No, but I'm not. ...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U29	But, my fellow Members, the intersaxes must not interfere with the debate! Impressions are allowed, but the debate (Impressions.) ... All right, colleagues, do not waste the time of the debate! Please continue the debate. ( The box “Let’s Do Not Disturb! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U30	It was absolutely... I'm talking about people - almost 150 thousand. ( Milestones.) No, no, I'm quietly ready to discuss with you on the Commission. Let us pass on the draft law commission, let us look at specific social portraits, as our poor people look like. I would like to say to you that the EUR 109 minimum income is nothing. And the only way we can help us in this situation is to grant universal allowances and, in some way, to soften the rise in inflation in people's wallets, because pensioners actually lose 35 percent each month. We can be proud of the fact that we set indexation at two months earlier, and perhaps also of the fact that indexation is the biggest, but in reality pensioners, who receive a pension with all the premiums and indexation costs, cannot afford butter at three euros and have moved to margarine, which is much cheaper and healthier. They cannot afford ordinary chicken meat, which already costs almost nine euros. And it's planned to be over ten next month. And you sit so quietly with the anecdotes. ( Internouncing call.) Yeah, you haven't been in the store for a long time, go and see! ( Internouncing call.) Yeah, in those shops, listen... Not in jobs... there are prices like that... If we enter a shop of the usual economic class, its meat is really expensive. Let’s say, the usual cheese that looks like no dessert at all is one of the most expensive offers today - 59 cents of our “Card”. I don't know at all (Interface.) ... It's you with that smile... and in general, it thinks that they are not our citizens. These are our citizens, who may be much more concerned about whether they will be able to afford their cheese once a month. ( Internouncing call.) I'm talking about chicken fillet if you don't know. Okay, let's talk specifically about chicken fillet. ( Internouncing call.) Yes, yes, Lidl, I understand that the German consortium is staying... but if you go to Lithuanians, you will see a real price for Maxima. I wonder that Members are taken away from life and do not know the real price. Next time I'll prepare a statement from Maxima and read you the price. ( Interface: “Maxim does not... “ Well, good... All right, all right! In this context, I would like to tell you: to have a constructive conversation, let us hand over the draft law to the commission. In the Commission, your representatives and we will balance both the budget and the benefits. Thank you for your support. ( The drug is noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U31	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance” to the Committee on Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes the Member Kaspars Ģirgens, Erika Pucena, Ramona Petravičs, Māra Možvillo, Julia Stepanenko and Lubova's draft law "Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax" (No. 1624/Lp13) transferred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission with responsibility for the Commission. ‘ Ēriks Pucens, a Member, has applied for this.”
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U32	Hello, dear colleagues! The support plan developed by the government for the energy crisis - it is like ruins before the elections themselves and does not fundamentally change anything. We in the “Republic” party have submitted a draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax”... both coke pellets, heat, food and electricity. Following along with what the ministries do in times of crisis... Last week, the Ministry of Agriculture held a meeting where the National Association stood up for a very active reduction in value added tax on food. Of course, one is to make discussions and blow the fog in the eyes of people, the other is to make work realistic. I call on the National Association to vote today in favour so that we can work on these four listed cases and reduce value added tax. I call for support for the bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U33	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Please call us! To be put to the vote on the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax (No. 1624/Lp13) transfer to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, making it a responsible commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 29, for - 53, for - 1. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the Member Erika Pucena, Kaspars Ģirgens, Ramona Petravičs, Māra Možvillo, Julia Stepanenko and Lubova's draft law "Amendments to the Law on Real Estate Tax" be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Kaspars Ģirgens.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U34	It's fundamentally wrong to take people away their real estate for it... what they've already paid... and pay a certain amount each year for this. We know that the cadastral values will rise from 2023 and nothing has changed over these four years to exempt people from real estate tax. I would certainly oppose the National Union at the moment, because I believe that it is the most complete fool... that, for example, children will be denied holiday in Sigulda only because two months of parents will not have paid real estate tax. Where even more foolishness can be invented for us in Latvia (Independence.) - denying children’s food. They need this meal every day, regardless of their family resources. And that's shame. A year ago, I made a proposal to grant a real estate tax credit to families with children with disabilities. The National Association also voted "no" at the time and has so far made no proposal to solve this problem - not helping families with disabilities, not helping Latvian citizens to escape this property tax at all. There are many different ways in which municipalities can obtain additional financial resources in their budget, i.e. to promote entrepreneurship, entrepreneurship promotes employment and employment means additional taxes. No property needs to be taken away from the population. I therefore call for support for our draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U35	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Real Estate Tax”” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 30, 51, abstain - not. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the State Funded Pensions Act” presented by Mr Kaspars Ģirgens, Mr Ramona Petravičs, Mr Ainārs Vilciņa, Mr Lubova Švekovs, Mr Julija Stepanenko and Mr Romana Moneys be referred to the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Kaspars Ģirgens.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U36	Therefore, these amendments provide that the State Funded Pensions Law shall be amended by which the funded pension capital of a member of the funded pension scheme shall be inherited in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Civil Law if the member dies before the application of the old-age pension. At the moment, it is necessary to go, write the application and only then be able to wish this funded pension capital to a certain person. However, I believe that there is no need to give these savings to the state if no application is signed, but automatically, as I said, it is inherited in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Civil Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U37	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Funded Pensions” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the Member Jūlija Stepanenko, Lubova Švekova, Alda Gobzema, Māra Možvillo, Karina Sprūde and Ainārs Vilciņš refer the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on the Management of communicable Diseases” to the Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Prevention Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible. ‘ Jūlija Stepanenko, Member, has applied to speak about”
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U38	Dear colleagues, On 4 June 2020, when the Saeima was proposed to decide on the transfer of powers to the Cabinet of Ministers, it took place very quickly, without public consultation, and within almost a few days it was decided. The Saeima still has no full power to decide about the life of the residents, as it is still decided according to the Cabinet of Ministers Regulations “Epic Security Measures to limit the spread of Covid-19 infection”, which already exceed 400 points, and they continue to grow and grow. At the moment, we see that virtually nothing has changed with regard to employers' rights and workers' rights. Paragraph of this law... 7.2, 7.3, 7.4.... are still these points, and we see that they are also being abused. Annotation... When these points came to the Saeima last autumn... It was indicated that vaccinated persons suffer from fewer disease than unvaccinated persons, that vaccination really helps and that this optional vaccination is being initiated in order to force them to vaccinate. We know what it ended with, we know how many people have suffered from this cruel policy. In our stocks - already in historical stocks, we can say so - there are hundreds of letters from the citizens who have described their lives following these decisions. You won't want to read it, you'll really be ashamed of the despair you've invaded and still invading people. I will give you a concrete example of what you have done. A woman who provided psychological help to blind people was brutally suspended from work in the blind. She did not pose any risk to these people, but she was in state work. A computer specialist, including the blind, the first group disabled, who taught the blind so that they could even listen a little to what is happening in the world - also because he was working in the country. There are a number of such situations, we know about these situations, and we will talk a lot about them and dictates about them. Therefore, colleagues, it is finally time that these rules were removed from the law, even if you thought it necessary before, a year ago, because your epidemiologists are already saying that vaccination has not helped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U39	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, which is the committee responsible, the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Proliferation Management”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Support for the Control of the Economic Effects of Sanctions and Anti-Dumping Measures against Ukraine” presented by Member Janis Vitenbergs, Kārlis Šadurska, Jurs Pūce, Krišjānis Feldmans and Raivjs Dzintaras be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible. ( Milestones.) “About” has applied to speak Member Jānis Vitenbergs.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U40	Good morning, colleagues! When I led the Ministry of Economics, I often received a proposal from businessmen... that in Latvia there is a lack of support programme to implement ambitious business ideas, new projects - create new production sites, develop new production directions - which would add value to our export portfolio... to process both wood resources and cereals here on the spot. Since we often export products with low added value, there is a need for state aid to remedy this situation. Despite the fact that... I remember, we also had a hard debate in the coalition and there were colleagues who said: what ambition for our entrepreneurs then they intend to produce or improve... but managed to reach an agreement on a €100 million support programme, an investment fund. I would say that this is one of the largest support programmes in our country's history, which is specifically focused on the development of entrepreneurs. And this fund works quite simply: the state lends money to implement these projects, but entrepreneurs commit themselves to meeting the criteria of employing people for export, paying more wages than the regional average, investing in R & D, and green technologies. The interest from entrepreneurs was very, very large - 45 companies applied to invest almost one and a half billion euros in the development of such projects. With the existing funds, the programme will create around a thousand new jobs, export volumes of over 300 million each year, R & D investment of 18 million. It is a niche that has so far been lacking, and we are at the bottom of the gap with the European Union's countries investing directly in research. Every year, the State will collect more than 10 million wages in taxes. So that a successful programme, where the country will also benefit quite quickly from the development of such projects. All 45 projects with existing funding are not enough; thanks to colleagues in the coalition - it has been agreed that we are continuing with this programme, because among these 45 projects there are a number of projects with a high degree of readiness and projects are ready to implement. These amendments, which have been tabled (with the signatures of Members), provide for an additional EUR 52 million for this programme, will create another 400 new jobs and will provide an additional EUR 70 million each year for exports. So that's an important programme. And also for those companies that have now been left behind, this may be a very positive message. I call on my fellow Members to support and see the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission at the meeting as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U41	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Statement by the Bureau on the granting of leave For unpaid leave granted to Member Janis Wittenbergs on 15 September this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Jānis Vitenbergs requesting unpaid leave on 15 September of this year. The Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. Changes to the agenda of the Bureau meeting have been submitted to the honourable Members. Members Juris Rancāns, Mārtiņš Šteins, Juris Pūce, Marija Golubeva and Normunds Gunna are asking to move to paragraph 37 of the Saeima's agenda – draft law on amendments to the Ukrainian civilian support law (No. 1599/Lp13) - examination after examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. And now it's about the law's second-reading. Dear colleagues, On 16 September this year, the President of Latvia has sent the Saeima for the re-reading of the Municipal Law adopted on 8 September this year. The National and Municipal Commission shall be responsible for this Law. According to the rule of the Saeima, the deadline for the submission of proposals and the date on which the law is re-examined at the Saeima sitting must be set. Please enable the microphone commission... The microphone is already on for the commission chairman Inga Goldberga.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U42	The Commission decided: deadline for the submission of proposals - 3 October, consideration by the Saeima at its meeting - 20 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U43	October 3th?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U44	Deadline for submission of proposals - 3 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U45	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals - 3 October of this year, consideration at the Saeima sitting - 20 October of this year. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on Immigration’, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Edwin Šnore.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U46	Hello, dear colleagues! We look at the draft law on amendments to the Immigration Law at second reading. The Commission has received 11 proposals. 1. - Schnore's proposal. Partially supported, included 3. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U47	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U48	2. - Also the Schnore proposal. Partially supported, included 3. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U49	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U50	3. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U51	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U52	4. - Member Col's proposal. Partially supported, included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U53	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U54	5. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U55	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U56	6. - Member Col's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U57	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U58	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, On this proposal... In general, it is a pleasure that a number of proposals related to reducing the issue of residence permits to Russian citizens, so... the acquisition of rights, the draft law is supported. At the same time, this proposal (vote with a minimum of four against five) did not involve aid which, in fact, did not... This proposal provides for the limitation of exceptional cases to cases arising from humanitarian considerations such as family reunification or international law. This paragraph effectively suspends the granting of new residence permits and the extension of existing residence permits, except in cases relating to the exercise of the right of asylum, marriage and custody of minors. The Ministry of the Interior argues that these rights derive from the European Union directives - both from the 2016 Directive No. 801 as well as from 2009 Directive 50/EC. Colleagues, I would simply like to draw attention to the fact that these directives also provide for derogations, where Member States can adopt measures, to limit the number of volumes (number of volumes, zero is also the number of volumes) to be issued on the basis of public safety, public health safety and not to violate in any way the European Union directive as a whole. In addition, I would like to draw attention to the informal meeting of Foreign Ministers on 31 August in Brussels when it came to a broader concept of restricting the entry of Russian citizens into the European Union. The main messages we all know that progress has been crucial... making it difficult to obtain these visas, but at the same time it was clear that those countries bordering the Russian Federation can implement additional restrictions within the framework of national regulation. We have, of course, done this with regard to visas, but also with regard to residence permits... This can also be launched, in no way an infringement of the European Union Directive, because the Directive refers to specific points that allow for exceptions: Article 5(1) ‘f’ of Council Directive 2009/50/EC, Article 20(1) ‘a’ of Directive 2016/801 of the European Parliament and of the Council, Article 5(8) of Directive 2014/66/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council. Similarly, all those Directives provide for the right for Member States to withdraw or refuse to grant an authorisation for reasons of public policy, public security or public health. In the light of the above, as well as in the light of the Commission's decision to support, let us take, the restriction of fare visas for Russian citizens in particular, where these same concerns about the implementation of European Union directives, I call for consistency and once again for no fear of the vicious default procedure on the part of the European Union, the shadows, which probably only remain a shadow. Colleagues, these proposals, which I call on... disable... To get Russian citizens... relate to areas such as crèches... as research work. Do we really still open these gates and keep them open or yet fully limit the possibility for Russian citizens to stay in Latvia, including without excluding what, as I said, is based on international obligations, rights, the law on asylum, marriage and family law, where of course... we don't touch this? At the same time, the norm is maintained that in special cases the Minister of the Interior retains the right to grant temporary residence permits to Russian citizens exceptionally if this is in the interests of the state of Latvia. Colleagues, we really don't have to leave half-carried work. The Council of the European Union has had a clear message, as has communication from the President of the European Commission... that Member States bordering the Russian Federation may adopt additional measures in national regulation. This proposal is aimed directly at this. Colleagues, I really call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U59	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U60	The Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U61	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - Member Cola's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 35, against - 47, refraining from - 4. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U62	7. - Member Mozhville's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U63	Let us start a debate. The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U64	Hello, Speaker of the Saeima! Hello, colleagues! I am not the only one who has received several letters from various organizations and associations representing both the Latvian Network of Business Angels in Latvia and the Institute of Economics in the e-mail of the Saeima, which warns that by making the wrong movements in this law, we can allow our own calls to businesses who are fleeing from Russia from Belarus and who have long worked in Latvia... these calls will be broken and they will be made, to be honest... I don't know. ( The ring of noise.) Currently, Finland, Lithuania and Estonia are already developing special programmes so that these start-ups can work – to work and not to take care of the future. But with this proposal... I would like to draw your attention to the fact that adopting such corrections could make it possible for this promise to remain valid. But since most of my colleagues are not interested in this, I must stop talking and hope that everyone will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U65	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U66	The Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U67	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - Member Mozhville's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -6, for -56, for -5. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U68	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U69	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U70	9. - Dombrava's proposal. Partly supported and included 10. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U71	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U72	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U73	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U74	I would like to say that this proposal also relates to the previous proposal, and I am pleased that the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption and the Legal Bureau, working together, could have created a really good version. Thank you, Mr. Rancan. Therefore, this proposal will entail a fundamental change in the order of Russian citizens who are residing in Latvia and who will be required to present a language statement in the future. They must not be punished, they must not be subject to tax debts, they must not be seen by security authorities, otherwise they will have to pack their property. That's easy. I am very sorry that the proposal by Mr Kola was not supported. But I think the Immigration Act will still be open either at this Saeima or at the next Saeima, because it is clear that its rules will be made even more stringent - even more stringent! - taking into account what Russia is doing on its territory: they make life more difficult for their citizens, with every step - with mobilisation, with the extension of hostilities, with crimes against humanity. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U75	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U76	The Commission supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U77	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U78	And the last one is 11. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U79	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U80	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U81	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the second, final, final reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Immigration". Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 67, against - 17, refrains - not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendment to the Law “On the Bank of Latvia”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U82	Good morning, colleagues! The draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Bank of Latvia” will allow the Bank of Latvia to involve the National Armed Forces in securing the transportation of money and real estate from 1 November to 1 November. No legislative proposal has been tabled for second reading. The Commission supported the examination of draft laws at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U83	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On the Bank of Latvia” at second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Mr Andrejs Judine, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U84	Hello, colleagues! The Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs examined this draft law yesterday before the first reading; it was seen before at the meeting of the National Security Commission. As regards this draft law, I would like to emphasise that its aim is to strengthen security and protection of the information space of Latvia, increase the influence of Latvian language in the Latvian cultural environment, as well as to ensure that no broadcasting permits are issued in the territory of the Republic of Latvia for broadcasting television programmes that are excluded from the list of audiovisual programmes to be broadcast in Latvia or on which the National Electronic Media Council has decided over the last five years on the prohibition of the retransmission of this programme in the territory of Latvia. As I said, two commissions worked on this bill. And yesterday we listened to experts' views and that is why we decided to push this draft law forward and, moreover, to the urgency procedure. On the content of the draft law. We can see three blocks of questions here. I'll start with the first one. Firstly, the amendments will ensure greater transparency for the genuine beneficiaries of the electronic media by reducing their potential hidden impact. The current regulation provides that information must be provided only for the beneficial owner, who holds, directly or indirectly, more than 25 per cent of the shares or voting rights of the legal person, or who controls it directly or indirectly. And the representatives of the NEPLP explained to us and offered us examples. There are, for example, a situation where there are three people, each owns 22 percent, they control a particular media, but we don't have information about them, because interest... is less than 25 per cent. The draft law provides for information to be provided where there is control of at least five per cent. So the State Security Service and the NEPLP will have more information about those people who define a particular media policy that directly affects its operation, including... we are talking about media registered abroad. So this is the first question. We have dealt with this and there was an absolute consensus, no objections we have heard. The second issue (an important question) is to prohibit the granting of broadcasting authorisation for a TV programme “which has been excluded from the list of audiovisual programmes to be broadcast in Latvia on the grounds that the State under the jurisdiction of the audiovisual programme is undermining or threatening the territorial integrity, sovereignty or national independence of another country, or the prohibition of retransmission on the territory of Latvia has been decided by the National Board of Electronic Media over the last five years”. What does that mean when we speak simple words? We have channels that are banned; there are Russian channels that support the war in Ukraine, which are directly involved in propaganda. And what do we see, and what do we see in the NEPPs? There are Latvian people who are trying to register these banned channels in Latvia. We ban programs registered abroad... Now you try to enter the other door and then continue your work. Clearly, this is not about the best - known programmes that are involved in widespread propaganda. But if it's turned off... if really those programs... If there is no right to retransmission channels, it is important that there is also no additional possibility of doing so without respecting the ban. And then we also looked at this... Yeah, right now... exactly then... NEPLP has now reported an attempt to register five of the programmes that have been excluded. We have dealt with this issue, and here too there was consensus, it is supported. And finally, the third block of questions. The draft law provides that programmes which create a language path other than one of the official languages of the Member States of the European Union or of the countries of the European Economic Area are to be primarily provided with a language path in the official language. And here we were surprised at what we heard. In Latvia, in particular, several programme distributors classified Latvia as a Russian-speaking land by default. Latvia is a Russian-language country, in their sense, and as a result they offer programs in English and broadcast in the second language - the path is in Russian. And we heard it right yesterday that out of a total of 252 programmes, 127 programmes have a Russian language path; 44 programmes have a Latvian language path. That is the situation. And here we have been discussing for a long time. Of course, entrepreneurs told us that it could be expensive and that it would no longer be so beneficial for entrepreneurs... But, colleagues, it is necessary to understand a simple thing (and the members of the commission understood and supported it), namely that in Latvia the state language is the Latvian language and it is not normal that the Latvian language is not respected in any case... As the NEPLP stressed... It should not be emphasised as being anti-Russian. The Russian-language track is still and can remain. But the Latvian language should not be placed below. So we talked a long time... criticism was then directly related to economic considerations, but Members also supported these proposed amendments when considering this issue. In view of the importance of these issues, the Commission calls for support for the draft law and for consideration of its urgency. So, first of all, I ask you to recognise the draft law as urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U85	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U86	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U87	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading draft law on Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for consideration of the proposals and the time limit for consideration at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U88	We talked yesterday about the speed with which this draft law should be adopted, and the members of the Commission decided to ask the Saeima to support the draft law now at second reading - without consideration by the Commission. We believe that the draft law is of such quality that we can also adopt it today at final reading. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U89	Are Members opposed to the second reading of the draft law without re-examination by the committee responsible? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There are no objections. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media at second, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Dear colleagues, On the agenda - draft law on amendments to the Ukrainian civilian support law, first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U90	Hello, dear colleagues! Dear President, In the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption, we have examined ongoing amendments to the Ukrainian civilian support law, which provide for a number of additions. The amendments aim at facilitating the integration of Ukrainian civilians into the labour market in order - alongside those involved in employment - to support the self-employed. It is planned to pay Ukrainian civilians an allowance for starting self-employment in the amount of one minimum monthly salary. Also, in order to provide timely support to Ukrainian civilians for children born in Latvia, the child care allowance is to be granted from the day of birth without requiring the child's residence documents, if such documents are still kept and have not been received. There is also regulation for the issue of seafarers’ books to Ukrainian seafarers. The Commission supported this draft law and asks the Saeima to declare it urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U91	Please call me! Vote on the draft law “Amendments to the law on civilian support for Ukraine” (No. 1599/Lp13) recognition as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U92	On behalf of the Commission, I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U93	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on amendments to the Ukrainian civilian support law at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U94	For the second reading, the deadline for the submission of proposals...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U95	Yes, please set a time limit for consideration of the proposals and the time limit for consideration by the Saeima at the sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U96	The deadline for tabling proposals - 20 minutes, and consideration - Saeima today, 22 September, sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U97	Thank you. So the deadline for the proposals - by 10.50 a.m. - sitting of the Saeima on 22 September this year. Dear colleagues, it's time for a break. Please call me! Please check-in mode! Name For Inese Voika to read the registration results.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U98	Colleagues! Not registered: Boriss Cilevičs, Gundars Dauge, Artuss Kaimiņš, Ieva Krapāne, Armands Krauze, Ainars Latkovskis and Ralphs Nemiro (Dep. R. Nemiro: “I am!” )... Ralph is.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U99	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U100	Dear colleagues, I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room. We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - under the heading ‘Handling draft laws’. Draft law “Amendment to Law “On Real Estate Tax”, third reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Reinis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U101	Hello, colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendment to Law “On Real Estate Tax”” (No. 1262/Lp13). The Commission received two proposals for a third reading. 1. - the proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Kaspars Gerhard. Editable. Clarifying the use of the word. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U102	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U103	2. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. The procedure for paying taxes shall be specified in cases where forced privatisation of the divided property takes place within the framework of the law on termination of the divided property in the privatised apartment houses. In the Commission, the proposal is supported by changing the numbering of the following articles.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U104	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U105	Thank you, colleagues. We have therefore examined all the proposals. I call for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U106	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Real Estate Tax” at third reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 63, against and refrains. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, Changes to the agenda for the Bureau meeting were tabled. The Cabinet of Ministers asks that the draft law “Law on the State Defence Service” be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. Draft legislation shall be included on the agenda of the sitting. The Cabinet of Ministers asks to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Cabinet of Ministers asks that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Official Electronic Address” be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Cabinet of Ministers asks that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the National Armed Forces” be included on the agenda of the sitting. Do Members have objections? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) There are objections. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the National Armed Forces” to be on the agenda of the sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 53, against -14, abstaining. Draft legislation is on the agenda of the sitting. The Cabinet of Ministers is asking to include in the agenda of the sitting the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Service Pensions for Military Persons”. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft legislation is on the agenda of the sitting. The Cabinet of Ministers asks that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Military Disciplinary Liability” be included on the agenda of the sitting. Do Members have objections? ( Interface: “Yes, yes! ” ) And objections? Please call me! We will vote for the draft law amending the law on military disciplinary responsibility to be on the agenda of the sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 53, against - 15, abstaining - not. The draft law is on the agenda of the sitting. The Cabinet of Ministers asks for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft legislation is on the agenda of the sitting. The Cabinet of Ministers asks to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Administrative Penalty on Violations in the Fields of Administration, Public Order and Use of the State Language”. Do Members have objections? ( Interface: “Yes, there are objections! ” ) Please call us! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Administrative Penalty on Violations in the Field of Administration, Public Order and Use of State Language” to be on the agenda of the sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation is on the agenda of the sitting. The Cabinet of Ministers asks for the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Pensions” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The draft law is on the agenda of the sitting. The Cabinet of Ministers asks that the draft law “Amendments to the Military Service Law” be included on the agenda of the sitting. Do Members have objections? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of including the draft law on amendments to the Military Service Act on the agenda of the sittings! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation is on the agenda of the sitting. The Cabinet of Ministers asks for the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Patients’ Rights” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The draft law is on the agenda of the sitting. Members Viktors Valainis, Jānis Dūklavs, Uldis Augulis, Jānis Vucāns, Edgars Tavars and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” (No. 1646/Lp13). ‘ For” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U107	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, For a long time, the Ministry of Agriculture underscores the need to introduce reduced value added tax on food. Ladies and gentlemen, in these days, I think a number of you will meet various agricultural organisations, such as the Farmers' Family, the Cooperation Council of Agricultural Organisations (hereinafter referred to as the LOSP), dairy farmers and many others, and various agreements are being proposed. All due respect for those who respond fairly to these organisations that they do not support a reduction in value added tax on food. But you, fellow Members, would call on those who support such agreements to do so now and to support it now in the Saeima - now to start looking at something that could reduce food prices in stores. Of course, with these amendments... It is not enough with these amendments alone that we should think very seriously about how to restart the work of the Competition Council, because, in our view, the Competition Council is not meeting the obligations imposed on it at the moment and no control over what is happening at prices is, in substance, not taking place. What the Competition Council is doing at the moment - it is difficult to comment at all. I believe that it is not through the performance of my direct job. This bill... If the Competition Council were to carry out its duties, food prices in shops would also, by nature, decrease. Colleagues, around 20 Member States of the European Union have now adopted such a provision - either fixed-term or long-term, but have adopted it. We are talking about this at government level before the elections, when there are any shocks, but when we must vote... Unfortunately, Members are not ready, they do not want to vote for it in the Saeima. I call for this to be done and voted on, however, and for a debate to start on reduced rates of taxation on foodstuffs in a broader scope than is currently the case. I call for support for the bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U108	Do Members object to the inclusion of a draft law on the agenda of the sitting? ( Internouncing call.) Members want to vote. Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax (No. 1646/Lp13) on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 29, for - 51, for - 1. Draft legislation is not on the agenda of the sitting. We shall continue to examine draft laws. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Animal Protection Law’, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Gatis Zamurs.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U109	Hello, Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! Draft Act Amendments to the Animal Protection Act (No. (1151/Lp13) we have examined the third reading without any proposal and unanimously supported it for the parliamentary session. The purpose of the draft law is to prohibit the rearing and keeping of animals where their sole purpose is the production of fur. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has agreed that the ban will enter into force on 1 January 2028. Such a deadline gives a clear signal that this type of business will no longer be allowed in Latvia, and gives entrepreneurs the opportunity and time to shift their economic activity to other sectors. The ban on the rearing of fur animals in Latvia has been harmonised within the European Commission and no objections have been received against it from other Member States of the European Union. Animal breeding with the aim of obtaining fur is unethical, and there is no place for such entrepreneurship in today's society. This decision is a major step forward in an inclusive, respectful and compassionate society, allowing Latvia to move towards civilised and European development. In particular, on behalf of the Commission, I would like to highlight and express my thanks to the Animal Freedom society, which, through its activities, helped us greatly in the work of our committee and contributed to the creation of quality legislation. This, in my opinion, is an outstanding example of public activism, fighting for 10 years about important ideas, creating public stories, reflecting the terrible life of the beasts... and work on the farm. Also by organizing the pickets that we all saw today in the morning at the Saeima. Of course, this comes in conjunction with expertise and in-depth knowledge in the ban process. I hope that there will be more and more such activities in Latvia. I therefore ask the Saeima to support the draft law...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U110	Colleagues, colleagues... It's on behalf of the Commission, please? I recall that the rapporteur is reporting on behalf of the Commission. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U111	I ask the Saeima to support the third, final reading of the draft law on the protection of animals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U112	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final reading of the draft law on the protection of animals! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. (Applause) Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Civil Protection and Disaster Management”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Raimonds Bergmanis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U113	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! In its meeting of 14 September this year, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption examined draft law “Amendments to the Law on Civil Protection and Disaster Management” (No. 1435/Lp13) for the third reading. Two proposals were received. 1. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Defence Baiba Blādniece. Associated with the need to develop civil protection plans in the event of military invasion or war. And we know that not in every region... There are several districts which are joined together by so-called commissions, civil protection commissions which include several districts, but each region must nevertheless have its own plan. There is therefore a editorial correction, after the word ‘approval’, with the word ‘in each’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U114	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U115	2. - also the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Defence Baiba Blādniece. Related to a more precise definition of the means by which these civil protection plans will be drawn up and, in order to avoid any confusion, the draft law contains a editorial correction ‘from the financial resources of the state budget’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U116	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U117	All the proposals have therefore been examined. I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U118	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final reading of the draft law on civil protection and disaster management! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The law is passed. Draft law on the amendment to the Criminal Law, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Edgars Tavars.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U119	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Draft law amending the Criminal Law (No. 1412/Lp13), second reading. On behalf of the Commission, I draw attention to the fact that this draft law was initially submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers together with the draft laws “Amendments to the Law on Land Guard of the Republic of Latvia” and “Amendments to the Law on Mobility”, which provide for the determination of the liability of landguards in the Criminal Law, as is the case with the reserve and reserve soldiers. In turn, five proposals were received in the Commission from Member Kaspars Ģirgens. 1. - The Commissioner's Gürgen's proposal. Article 78 relating to national, ethnic and racial hatred shall be excluded. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U120	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U121	2. - The Commissioner's Gürgen's proposal. Provides for the addition of Article 95.2 of the law... in a new version. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U122	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U123	3. - a proposal from the Member Gürgen. It is envisaged to exclude Article 150 of the Act, which provides for a link to the creation of social hatred and distrust. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U124	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U125	4. - also the proposal from Member Kaspars Gürgen. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U126	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U127	And 5. - also the proposal from my fellow Member, Kaspars Girgens. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U128	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U129	All the proposals have therefore been examined. Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U130	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on criminal law. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U131	The deadline for submitting proposals is five days.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U132	That is, 27 September. So the deadline for the proposals is 27 September this year. Draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Procedure and Time of Entry into Force and Application of the Renewed Civil Law of the Republic of Latvia of 1937”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Jānis Iesalnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U133	Hello, colleagues! Three proposals were received by the Commission for a second reading. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Associated with the termination of shared property, and it excludes orchard (trees) as an independent real estate, returning to pre-war regulation of Civil Law. In the future, this orchard (trees) would belong to land ownership. At the Commission’s meeting, it was also found that no institution was actually keeping records of such separate orchards. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U134	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U135	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It relates to the same thing as proposal 1. The Commission was also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U136	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U137	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The law shall enter into force on 1 January 2023. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U138	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U139	On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U140	Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Time and Procedure of Entry into Force of the Renewed Civil Law of the Republic of Latvia 1937, Rights of Heritage and Rights of Cases”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U141	The deadline for the proposals for third reading is 27 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U142	The deadline for proposals is 27 September this year. Draft law ‘Amendments to civil law’, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Jānis Iesalnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U143	No proposals were submitted to the Commission at second reading. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U144	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Civil Law". Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U145	The deadline for the proposals for third reading is 27 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U146	The deadline for proposals is 27 September this year. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Executors of the Court”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Jānis Iesalnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U147	Four proposals were received to the second reading by the Legal Commission. 1. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, Kronberg. The procedure for contesting the qualification examination of an sworn bailiff shall be specified. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U148	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U149	2. - The legal commission's proposal. The amendment provision at first reading shall be specified in a editorial form. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U150	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U151	3. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, Kronberg. Updates the reference to the latest regulatory provision of the European Union. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U152	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U153	4. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, Kronberg. Related to proposal 3, it is also replaced by a newer regulatory provision for the European Union. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U154	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U155	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U156	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law of the Executor of the Court” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U157	The deadline for the third reading of the proposals is 27 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U158	The deadline for proposals is 27 September this year. Draft Law on Access to Goods and Services, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Janina Kursīte.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U159	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined and supported the draft law “Accessibility of Goods and Services” of the Saeima (No. 1554/Lp13). The draft law is designed to take over the requirements of the directive on the accessibility of products and services. The purpose of this draft law is to promote the accessibility of goods and services to persons with disabilities and to all persons who have long-term physical, mental, intellectual or sensory impairments, which may hinder their full participation in society on an equal basis with others. Such transposition will harmonise accessibility requirements for certain groups of goods and services across the European Union, thus facilitating competition, cross-border trade and mobility. This draft law contributes to addressing both economic and social issues by improving the functioning of the European Union's internal market, the free movement of goods and services, as well as promoting the independent life of persons with disabilities and their inclusion in society. The draft law is included in the package together with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement” and the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Service Providers’ Procurement”. Please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U160	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law on access to goods and services at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U161	The deadline for submitting proposals is three weeks or 13 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U162	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 13 October this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Janina Kursīte.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U163	Draft Act Amending the Law on Public Procurement (No. 1555/Lp13) was also examined by the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission and directed to the Saeima sitting. The draft law was designed to ensure the transposition of the Directive on accessibility requirements for products and services. Within the framework of the planned regulation, the supplier will have to ensure compliance of the documentation submitted in the procurement with the requirements set by the customer in the technical specification in accordance with the Law on Access to Goods and Services insofar as it concerns accessibility criteria for persons with disabilities or design for the convenience of all users. Please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U164	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U165	October 13, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U166	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 13 October this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Public Service Providers’ Procurement Act”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Janina Kursīte.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U167	See the last draft of this package - Amendments to the Public Service Providers' Procurement Act (No. 1556/Lp13). The draft law “Amendments to the Public Service Providers’ Procurement Act” provides for the establishment of a similar framework for those included in previous draft laws, thus ensuring full transposition of accessibility requirements of the Directive into national public procurement legislation. The legislation provided for in the draft law improves equal opportunities and rights of persons with disabilities, as the planned regulation provides that public service providers will only be able to purchase certain goods and services that meet the accessibility requirements of the Law on Access to Goods and Services. Please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U168	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Service Procurement”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U169	October 13, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U170	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 13 October this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Dangerous Goods”, first reading. Member Viesturs Liepkalns on behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U171	Good afternoon, very honourable President of the Saeima and honourable colleagues! The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined and prepared draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Dangerous Goods” (No. 1578 Lp13) at first reading. These are amendments developed by the Ministry of Transport in this draft law as well as related draft laws – “Amendments to the Law on Aviation”, “Amendments to the Law on Railway Transport” and “Amendments to the Law on Road Transport” – which will be successively on the agenda of the Saeima. I will explain the substance of the legislative package to the first draft, and then we will vote on the next successively. The legislative package provides for clarification of the regulation on the qualification and functioning of safety advisers for the transport of dangerous goods, as well as on the transport of dangerous goods by air. The regulation regarding the qualification and operation of safety advisers for the transport of dangerous goods is laid down in different versions of the Road Transport Law and the Railway Transport Law and does not provide a uniform approach to the regulatory framework of one area in different transport areas, thus, in order to avoid potential conflicts, the procedure for authorising the Cabinet of Ministers to apply the requirements of the relevant regulations is specified. This will ensure the complexity and transparency of the regulatory framework in one area. With regard to the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Aviation””, the draft law lays down a more precise procedure for the Cabinet of Ministers to determine the procedure for preparing dangerous products and dangerous goods for carriage by aircraft, covering all the relevant issues that need to be resolved in the draft regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers “Procedure of air transport of dangerous goods and dangerous goods”. The Commission decided to support the first draft package - Amendments to the law on the movement of dangerous goods - and to make it urgent. I call for the urgency of this draft law to be established first.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U172	Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Dangerous Goods” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U173	Thank you. I call for support to be given to the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U174	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Dangerous Goods”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U175	The deadline for the submission of proposals is 6 October of this year, and consideration - 13 October of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U176	October 13th?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U177	Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U178	Consequently, the deadline for the proposals - 6 October this year, consideration at the Saeima sitting - 13 October this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Aviation”, first reading. Member Viesturs Liepkalns on behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U179	Colleagues, we continue with the second draft of this package – “Amendments to the Law on Aviation” (No. 1579/Lp13). The Commission decided to support this draft law and to make it urgent. I call for the urgency of this draft law to be established first.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U180	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Aviation” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U181	Thank you. I call for support to be given to the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U182	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Aviation” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U183	The deadline for the submission of proposals is 6 October of this year, and consideration - 13 October of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U184	Deadline for the proposals - 6 October this year, examination by the Saeima - 13 October this year. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Railway Transport Act’, first reading. Member Viesturs Liepkalns on behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U185	Colleagues, continue with the third draft package - Amendments to the Rail Transport Act (No. 1580 Lp13). The Commission decided to support this draft law and to make it urgent. I call for the urgency of this draft law to be established first.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U186	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on rail transport law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U187	Thank you. I call for support to be given to the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U188	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law amending the rail transport law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U189	The deadline for the submission of proposals is 6 October of this year, and consideration - 13 October of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U190	Deadline for the proposals - 6 October this year, examination by the Saeima - 13 October this year. Draft Act “Amendment to the Road Transport Act”, first reading. Member Viesturs Liepkalns on behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U191	Colleagues, continue with the final, that is, the fourth draft package - “Amendments to the Road Transport Act” (No. 1581/Lp13). The Commission decided to support this draft law and to make it urgent. I call for the urgency of this draft law to be established first.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U192	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on Road Transport Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U193	Thank you. I call for support to be given to the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U194	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law on Road Transport Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U195	The deadline for the submission of proposals is 6 October of this year, and consideration - 13 October of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U196	Thank you. Deadline for the proposals - 6 October this year, examination by the Saeima - 13 October this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Agencies”, second reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Regina Ločmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U197	Hello, colleagues! The Commission of Public Administration and Local Government has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Agencies” at first reading. This draft law specifies the procedure for appointing heads of agencies to the public, i.e. the state and local authorities, by stating that they will be civil servants in the future. Two proposals were submitted to the first reading of the draft law, both setting the deadline for the entry into force of the law. 1. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. The period of entry into force of the law shall be specified. The Commission was supported. Please support the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U198	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U199	2. - also a proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. The date of entry into force of this Law shall be determined - November 1, 2022. Please support the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U200	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U201	Please support the Parliament in second reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Public Agencies.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U202	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Public Agencies"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U203	The deadline for submitting proposals is five days, namely 27 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U204	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 27 September this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Municipal Council Election Law”, second reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U205	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! By working with the draft law for the second reading, we have extended it to health institutions, which also have the opportunity to participate in municipal elections and to vote for the area where he is resident rather than for where he is physically present on that day. We received five proposals for a draft law. 1. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U206	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U207	2. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The Commission was also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U208	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U209	3. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U210	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U211	4. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. The Commission was not supported as it was incorporated into other norms.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U212	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U213	5. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U214	The Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U215	I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U216	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Municipal Council Election Law” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U217	Five days - 27 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U218	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 27 September this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Public Probation Service”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Zenta Tretjaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U219	Hello, honorable Presidium! Dear colleagues, In its meeting of 14 September this year, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption discussed draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Public Probation Service” (No. 1404/Lp13) for second reading. 17 proposals have been received. 1. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U220	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U221	2. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U222	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U223	3. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U224	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U225	4. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U226	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U227	5. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U228	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U229	6. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U230	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U231	7. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U232	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U233	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U234	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U235	9. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U236	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U237	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U238	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U239	11. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U240	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U241	12. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U242	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U243	13. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U244	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U245	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U246	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U247	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U248	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U249	16. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U250	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U251	17. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U252	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U253	All the proposals have been examined. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption, I ask that the draft law be supported at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U254	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Public Probation Service” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U255	Deadline for submission of proposals - 27 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U256	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 27 September this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Real Estate State Cadastre”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U257	In the Legal Commission we examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the State Cadastral of Real Estate” (No. 1622/Lp13). The aim of the draft law is to facilitate construction processes - to simplify the construction process of individual buildings, as well as not to receive in these processes the approval of the completion of construction works of cadastral surveying of buildings. In order to implement this intention, it is necessary to determine the information necessary for registration in the State Cadastral Information System of Real Estate to be received from the construction information system without any cadastral measurement of the construction. It is allowed to record data of relatively minor and small constructions from the information received from the construction information system and construction documentation, without implementing the cadastral measurement process of the construction, obtaining data about the construction in the area. The development of these simplified processes in the building regulations has already assessed which building ranges should be applied and that public safety will not be seriously jeopardised. In the Legal Commission, we examined the draft law and decided to make it urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U258	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the State Cadastre of Real Estate” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U259	The Commission has supported the first reading of the draft law. I also call on my colleagues to support the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U260	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Real Estate State Cadastre” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U261	Time to submit proposals - five days, that is, 27 September. We did not decide at the Saeima sitting, but that could be 29 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U262	So there are no other proposals. Time-limit for tabling proposals - 27 September this year, sitting of the Saeima - 29 September this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Land Management Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Janina Kursīte.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U263	The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Land Management” (No. 1567/Lp13) and supported its examination by the Parliament at first reading. The project aims to implement land consolidation in rural areas by rearranging the boundaries of the land, including the removal of intermediates, and developing the project of the land installation in accordance with regulatory acts in the field of the land installation, insofar as this Law does not provide otherwise. Land consolidation provides for development of land border restructuring project, approval of land consolidation and implementation of land consolidation. Please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U264	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Land Management. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U265	27 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U266	The deadline for proposals is 27 September this year. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Law on Financial Stability Fees’, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U267	The purpose of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Financial Stability Tax” is to exclude the Financial and Capital Market Commission as the administrator of the financial stability fee, by entrusting this task to the State Revenue Service. The changes are related to the upcoming merger of the Bank of Latvia and the FCTC. In the future, it is planned to administer the fee using the electronic declaration system of the SRS and to pay the fee to the single tax account. It is also foreseen to extend the deadline for the fee payer to set up an operating income account in order to be entitled to reduce the fee payments. The Commission is asking to recognise the draft law as urgent and to support it at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U268	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Tax on Financial Stability”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U269	The Commission has supported the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U270	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Law on Financial Stability Fees! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U271	The deadline for tabling proposals is 27 September, and the session of the Saeima at second reading - 29 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U272	Deadline for the proposals - 27 September this year, consideration by the Saeima - 29 September this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U273	In parallel with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Tax on Financial Stability” this draft law – “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” is also directed. The amendments provide that a financial stability fee shall be paid into the single tax account and indicate this fee as an exception to the state fees which are paid into the state budget into the budgetary accounts specified by the administration of the relevant state tax. The Commission is asking for urgency for this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U274	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U275	The Commission supported the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U276	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U277	Proposals - 27 September, and consideration of Saeima sitting - 29 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U278	Deadline for the proposals - 27 September this year, consideration by the Saeima - 29 September this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U279	The aim of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax” is to ensure the transposition into Latvian national legislation of the European Union Directive laying down general arrangements for the application of excise duty. This Directive is referred to as the horizontal excise Directive. The draft law will also ensure compliance of Latvian legal acts with European Union law. While the new directive retains the same principles in the application of excise duty and in the movement of excise goods as the current directive, the new directive aims at improving the rules to harmonise the excise and customs procedures and the information system on the partial or total automation of movements of excise goods released for consumption within the European Union. It also clarifies the rules on distance selling of excise goods. The most important part of the bill. Firstly, it is intended to lay down certain arrangements concerning the movement of excise goods for consumption from one Member State to another for commercial purposes and the payment of excise duty. A single register will be used in the EU for such cases. The simplified administrative accompanying document for the movement of excise goods is replaced by an electronic simplified administrative document. The exchange of information will take place in an automated way via the computerised system. The draft law provides for the extension of similar arrangements to non-harmonised excise goods, so-called national excise goods, at EU level, thus ensuring a uniform approach to unorganised and harmonised excise goods. Secondly, it is also intended to lay down certain arrangements concerning the distance selling of excise goods and the payment of excise duty in this case. The consignor or his appointed tax representative will be responsible for payment of the excise duty in the Member State of destination. The new arrangements are intended to apply equally to harmonised and non-harmonised excise goods at European Union level. On 13 January 2022, the Court of Justice of the European Union delivered a judgment in the case “Mono/State Revenue Service” of the Court of Justice of the European Union stating that Member States cannot impose a condition or restriction that diplomats or international organisations may purchase excise goods with excise duty exemption by using only non-cash means of payment. In relation to this judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the draft law provides for the exclusion from the law of the persons concerned for the purchase of excise goods, subject to excise duty exemption, of non-cash payments. As a result, diplomats and international organisations will be able to purchase excise goods by paying for them also in cash. Given that the new Directive of the European Union replaces the Directive currently in force on 13 February 2023, the provisions contained in this draft law will also enter into force on 13 February 2023. The Commission is asking for urgency to be given to this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U280	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U281	The Commission has supported the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U282	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U283	Submission of proposals - 7 October, and consideration at the Saeima sitting - 13 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U284	Deadline for the proposals - 7 October this year, consideration by the Saeima - 13 October this year. Draft law “The Law on the Status of Latvian Language as the only state language”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Jānis Iesalnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U285	The aim of the law ensuring the status of Latvian language as the only state language is to finally implement in practice the will expressed by Latvian citizens in the popular vote held on 18 February 2012, in which the constitutional majority of Latvian citizens rejected the idea of Russian as a second state language in Latvia. Despite this convincing vote, 10 years after the referendum, it must be concluded that actual multilingualism still remains a problem in Latvia, while both Latvian and Russian are still used in public space, in communication between institutions and businesses, in various promotional materials and statements. Still, Latvians in the labour market of Latvia are discriminated against because of their lack of knowledge of Russian language, especially among young people, and they are often forced to leave Latvia for this reason. The draft law provides that the use of another language than the official language of the European Union in addition to the state language would be prohibited for businessmen of importance to the public in communication with their clients, unless the customer has requested it. This would apply to public services, electronic communications, payment services, credit services, public transport services, waste collection service providers, energy traders, commercial house managers, airports, bus stations, railway stations and taxis. A similar restriction would be imposed on retailers of goods. The draft law does not prevent a customer from speaking in Russian or addressed correspondence personally in Russian to the customer at the place where the service was received, if the customer himself has initiated the use of this language. The draft law also requires employers, who employ at least 50 employees and from at least five employees, to know whether to use a language other than the official language of the European Union or prefer such employees, to inform the State Labour Inspectorate thereof, giving reasons for such a requirement. The draft law establishes that it would enter into force on 1 July of next year and would lose its validity on 30 June 2026, until which it should be assessed whether the restrictions laid down in this law should be included in the State Language Law and other laws in order to establish permanent restrictions on multilingualism. In the Legal Commission, the draft law was conceptually supported. At the meeting of the Commission, representatives of the Presidential Chancellery also invited the Saeima not to delay the examination and adoption of this draft law. The Legal Commission is committed to fully examining the draft law during the term of office of this Saeima. The Legal Bureau noted several conceptual and editorial shortcomings of the draft law, as well as possible competition of norms with the Law on the State Language, but the Ministry of Justice and the majority of the members of the Commission remained in the position that these shortcomings could be eliminated by examining the draft law at second and third readings. In turn, the temporal nature of the law eliminates concerns about competition of norms with the Law on the State Language, serving as transitional provisions for the draft law under consideration, which can be maintained after the period of limitation, including them in the Law on the State Language, the Law on Labour and other laws. One of the reservations of the Legal Bureau against this draft law was the conclusion that the draft law actually addresses one specific foreign language, namely Russian. Here you have to answer - yes, the aim of the law is to address the unduly extensive use of Russian in the public and private sector, which is contrary to the will expressed by Latvian citizens in a referendum 10 years ago and threatens the actual linguistic position of Latvian as the only state language in Latvia. We must finally get rid of the two-lingual traditions imposed by the Soviet occupation power, the actual purpose of which was to destroy the Latvian language and the identity of the Latvians as an independent nation. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I invite you to support the draft law “Law on ensuring the status of Latvian as the only state language” at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U286	Let us start a debate. The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U287	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Strengthening the national language as the only national language can be achieved through different methods. I believe that we can achieve positive results in the language field, as has always been the case so far in our country, by demonstrating a good attitude towards people who are trying to learn and use the language, for example by organising language courses. If one of the objectives of the law, as it is stated there, is to provide an opportunity to learn the state language, then using a stick is absolutely wrong, and it is not necessary to demonize people who speak Russian in Latvia. It must be said that this draft law is opposed by the Legal Bureau and calls for this document not to be directed further. There is no clear position on this document also vis-à-vis employers. Of course, paper endures everything, but new proposals are very, very far from real life. I call for the draft law to be rejected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U288	Name to Member Ivan Ribakov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U289	Dear Saeima! I believe that this is a step forward in the pre-election process. Obviously, the authors lack other ways to incite hatred in society and to get to the Saeima again. I'm sorry, that's my idea. I do not think that this draft law has a future. First. Latvia is a market economy country. No one has abolished business laws. And if that's the customer's wish, contact him in any language. Secondly. Let us not forget that Russian is not only the Kremlin's language, not even the Pushkin's language; it is also a language of faith, because Russian, culture is the basis of old faith. And not just Russian... I'd like to say that old-fashioned language... And not only in Latgale, but in Latvia as a whole, old believers have lived for more than a hundred years, more than 70 thousand. The honourable chairman of the Commission told me yesterday at the meeting of the Commission that there are not so many old believers in Latvia. Come on, you're lying. All the old believers who have lived here for many years have always been loyal to the country. Language is an integral part of life and it is not acceptable to draw a huge layer of cultural history from it, as history shows, repression, as well as the genocide of culture, have never been to blame for its success. I call for this draft law to be rejected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U290	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U291	Dear colleagues, Now we have really come to the pre-election debates and to the draft pre-election laws. As the Legal Commission has called this bill, this is the so-called sunset bill - one that is offered shortly before the elections and will hardly survive and survive the election period - but, of course, it has paid much attention. And the Legal Commission heard very interesting, peculiar arguments about why this bill is needed. We see that this draft law deals with the fact that by prohibiting the use of one language - and of course it is only Russian - we will strengthen the Latvian language and people will begin to learn the language more intensively. It has been thought by the draft law, but no point can be found in it about broadening the Latvian language learning. Logicalally speaking, there should also be budgetary changes and budgetary implications... to municipalities and the state budget, if we were really talking about the expansion of language learning, because it costs money, but this draft law does not contain such a section because the applicants do not even think about learning Latvian. No, they believe that by prohibiting Russian from speaking to customers, we will improve their knowledge of the language of the country in some way. That is absolutely untruthful. The question of how much less, according to the applicants, the use of the Latvian language is threatened in English remains unanswered. The answer was not given, but instead we received a very amusing answer from the commission manager that, you see, England as... I understand... The host state of English has not invaded any country, so we use English, but let us forget Russian and not allow the client and service provider to talk to each other. Quite strange to hear it from a man who has told about his travel experience, about how he buys arrows there and suddenly starts to speak the local language... and therefore, Latvian citizens should learn to learn this language quickly, as do our “travelers”. Okay, but if we're talking about the impact of such a law on entrepreneurship, then... It was a great surprise to find out that the draft law had not even been aligned with any of the draft laws. It says what consultations have taken place, no one. And here, of course, we are asking the question immediately: has the Employers' Confederation of Latvia, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Latvia and the Free Trade Union of Latvia been informed about the existence of such a draft law, about such an idea? No, no! In the Legal Commission, the representative of the LTRK asked for time to get acquainted with this “big” and “unbelievably interesting” bill. But - we know that there is a need to speed up and there are elections and, of course, the deadline for tabling proposals is as short as possible so that we can be able to ban and turn something back as soon as possible. There are, of course, very interesting things, discoveries; it turns out that we are living very quickly and that it has been centuries since independence was restored. That is what I understand from the annotation, because the annotation concludes that... Contrary to the introduction to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia, which states that we must ensure the development of Latvian language “through centuries”. As we know, the introductory text of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia is not very long ago (the century has not yet really passed), but the authors of the annotation believe that we have not managed this task: to develop the Latvian language “through the centuries”. So if we don't, we have to do something urgently, so we also submit such a bill... with the deadline for the test, and let us see if we really will succeed. And finally... Yes, I promised I would point to mistakes because these authors... I do not really know who wrote this bill; as if colleagues from the Conservative Party have signed up, but I don't... I do not know who has written it, perhaps someone who can write even better, but here we see errors. The draft law “Law on ensuring the status of Latvian language as the only state language” contains several errors. We will not talk about comma, we will talk about Article 1, the purpose of the law. Colleagues, can you understand what verse 1 says? What have these people thought? Read it! ‘ The purpose of the law, without prejudice to the right of natural persons to choose the language of mutual communication, is to ensure that the decision taken in the referendum on February 18, 2012”, the comma, “that Russian is not the language of the other state”, the comma, “implementation”, the comma, “reducing the consequences of long-term Russification”, the comma, “distinguishing the strengthened practice of everyday communication in the working environment and providing services alongside the use of Latvian and Russian as well as providing opportunities for all Latvian citizens to use the state language on a daily basis or learn it.” Where is the verb left? Where is the... How is the sentence built? ( Internouncing call.) Do you understand what this sentence says? Nobody understands. Colleagues, Article 2 – ‘Activities of the Law’. Article 2, first paragraph, second sentence... Please explain who has written it. I have studied in Latvian school from grades 1 to 12, I have been the best Latvian teacher, Austra Roze, she has also taught us to follow the stylistics. ‘ This law is not applicable’, the statement that ‘it would reduce the use of the state language in the form of a use of the state language’, the statement ‘as laid down by the State Language Act or by the legislation on the basis thereof’. Who is the author? Well, please explain what you have written in the draft law on strengthening the state language, what you have thought with these texts! You have to learn Latvian for yourself. Go to the courses and learn to write sentences and, more importantly, laws that you have provided for administrative penalties for non-compliance. ( Milestones.) Learn how to write, learn to speak, and understand what you want from people! Of course, the Bureau of Law was right: this draft law is not even correctable at all. This is your principle - well, let's get in and then let's screw the wheels, and then there's something to go ahead with our bill, something to go. On this principle, you all have 13. You've been working for the family - there's an idea, and then we screw something, and that's something that's going to go ahead. This one-day law is what 13. The family will be remembered by people. ‘ I want to, and in the evening I will!” - That's how you work. But what have you done for men? Nothing! The legal office is right: this draft law is not acceptable either at first reading or further reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U292	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U293	Dear President, Honourable Members! Unfortunately, it must be admitted that during the 30 - more than 30 - years of Latvia's independence we, as Members, have learned nothing and we have not understood anything. And, above all, we have not understood that language is not just a communication; language is a weapon of state politics and independence in number one, and language determines the human thinking system as such. And this is very well understood by the Russian State Council, which has introduced a whole line of extremely strict law, declaring that Russian language in Russia will determine human thinking and therefore all... both guest workers and... everyone needs to be aware of this language. Iron. The Latvians, of course, being soft by nature, and members of the Saeima, without being aware of this nature, have not moved their finger. Such a law should not be referred to as the law of ensuring the status of the Latvian language as the only state language, but rather as the law of preventing the catastrophic situation with the state language. A referendum on one language has already taken place many years ago and its results have been completely ignored. In the referendum, the majority said that they wanted one language in Latvia, as it is written in the Constitution. Instead, the opposite was true: the public authorities... I'm not talking about private... I am not talking about Russian speakers who are malachi, they are defending their interests, they are doing the right thing. The Latvians introduced Russian into state-owned companies in their foolishness and phantom. And only from yesterday's road traffic department introduced exams in Latvian, and your miracle, there was a huge surprise for each other - how was that? Why isn't it Russian? And asked for a translation. So... I say once again that these 32 years have not taught us anything. The language situation has deteriorated, but it has started to deteriorate under the Birkava Government. Let us remember that the State Language Centre, which had very strict functions, was located in the premises of the Cabinet of Ministers, and the first one done by the government of Birkava, - thrown out the State Language Centre from the Cabinet of Ministers; then every year its functions have been reduced. The State Language Inspectorate became a laughter in Latvia. Remember, in order to get a permanent residence permit, we had to pass a language exam... and the Citizenship Act also demanded a state language exam. Why did half of Riga travel to Limbaži? What do you think? They did not pass this exam in Riga, but they drove it to Limbaži. Then it turned out that all these certificates were bought for money there. Did one person be put in prison, or were they denied these certificates? Did these people have to pass the exam? No, we pretended to be okay. I suspect that more than half of these people who received these language skills certificates do not understand in Latvian - just as they do not speak Latvian Aven, who is a Latvian citizen, and a whole line of others. We have not understood anything after all this russification, after 50 years of Soviets. We have not taken over anything from the Canadian province of Quebec, nor from the experience of Åland, or Dutch, defending Swedish, nor from the experience of Flanders in Belgium, where there are no other schools. Instead, we... overflowing electronic media... There, look at 30-40 channels, starting with Discovery and ending with others, - everything is in Russian. So this weapon... in subconscious... is dragged through our brain, shot directly through our brain. And in this way the russification continues. And we're just telling stories here that Europe doesn't let us... that it is, you know, registered somewhere there... elsewhere... and that Europe does not allow such and such directives to us... And we're in an increasingly sad situation with language. We completely ignore the Council of Europe's General Convention for the Protection of National Minorities, a convention which clearly and unequivocally states that minorities need this education perhaps, if they demand it, in their historical territory. That was when Russian schools were renamed minority schools. The minority schools in Latvia ended in 1940, when the Soviet occupation began, then schools in which the studies were held in Hebrew, Idis, Polish, Belarusian, including German, were closed in a few days, and all these children were forced to go to Russian schools. And we continue this lying and write everywhere – “minorities schools”. Show me one Estonian demonstration or one Lithuanian demonstration or one Polish demonstration in Riga, which would indicate that they are dissatisfied with their education system! Tell me, why is Russian talk all the time?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And how will you, dear colleagues, explain that, as early as the 19th century, there were only 0.6 percent of Russians in Latvia (according to the studies by historian Dunsdorf)? How will you explain that Russians were the fourth minority in Riga even before the Second World War? Where did 52 percent of Russian speakers come from in Riga? It fell from the air, it was born? The result of Latvian single rights and folly is that there was no deocupation, international organisations put in place some stupid integration programmes for us. And now consider: if you speak Russian on the border 140 million or 150 million... This mass with its own television programs, with its radio programmes, suppresses almost half of Latvia... the whole border... We didn’t have the money to open a colossal or, let’s say (Interface: “There’s no Internet either!” )... We did not have any money, or we did it knowingly, so that neither Latvian television nor Latvian radio could be perceived at the border. I completely agree that in Latgale people are listening to Belarus and Russia all the time. And we're just telling... Oh, my God, international conventions! we will launch 60 more channels on Russian television so that you can, let's say, watch English films. ( Internouncing call.) We were in Ankara... had a meeting in Turkey. It is interesting that all these international programmes take place in Turkish, no one comes to mind to duplicate something there at the bottom, put in English and duplicate. We have to put an end to all these folly. So - it is necessary to restore the functions of the State Language Inspection. It should be remembered that the language is a weapon for strengthening independence and the language determines the people of Latvia, as it has been recorded in the Constitution... regardless of his ethnic background... Latvian Language Knowledge... and way of thinking. From the first... from the first year in kindergarten - in Latvian! All teachers who do not learn to speak Latvian at the highest level should be released from kindergartens and schools. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele: “ Aleksandr... lecturers... Latvian lecturers... “) Let’s get to the teachers. The Kremlin understands that the Cabinet of Ministers of Latvia does not understand anything, and continues with various anti-Latvian demonstrations, with “Maskavas namai”, with all kinds of cultural exchange programmes. Now, for Pushkin. Pushkin was a representative of Russian imperialism, and his poems and articles about the fact that Poles are not a nation... There he praises the invasion of Russian troops, the division of Poland... and so on. I'll give you those poems. So in Riga a monument of Pushkin is installed, not because he is a good poet, but because Moscow marks its imperialist border. And the Riga City Council... with “Hand” management in front of... I want to put the next imperialists together. So my proposal is very simple: it is necessary to restore the functions of the State Language Inspection, and the law must provide for very strict penalties if a company allows another... Why are we talking about this today? Because the war in Ukraine opened our eyes. ( Internouncing call.) The war in Ukraine opened our eyes - made us realize that we had nothing to do with Russia or with Russian - absolutely nothing to do with it. You must forget that. Something you don't like here? Pskov's good schools, Kaliningrad's good schools - roll away! Next. The State Language Inspectorate, I think, must take much more stringent action, and the law must incorporate it into the law (I think we will not get it, but the next government) - if one company allows for Russian knowledge, penalties should be tens of thousands. If this company allows it to request again, it must close the company immediately, as is the case in Canada - immediately! ( Internouncing call.) And by the end. So everyone who has received a residence permit needs to check language knowledge... and these residence permits must be withdrawn - immediately! Second - 1996 Declaration on the occupation of Latvia. The 1996 Declaration states that one of the main tasks of the Cabinet of Ministers is to conclude an agreement with the Russian Federation on repatriation - not on deportation, but on voluntary repatriation - by helping people to leave. So, if we have 200,000... We have 182,000 non-citizens (Interface.) ... and 50,000 Russian citizens, 250,000 people, we must help to leave. Taxpayers. Estonia has 1.3 million inhabitants. Latvia would have 1.65 million - absolutely enough. The number of Latvians must be a minimum of 80 percent. You can't do anything here with some 60 percent, with all kinds of integration programs, with all sorts of fools. That's all stupid. About English. I completely agree with what Mrs Stepanenko said that English is also threatening, but it does not threaten us in this way, the English do not intend to occupy us, they have not deport us (as opposed to the Russians), and the Czech did not speak English. There is another problem, there is Latvian soft nature - desire to show that they are not representatives of any province, small people. I think that this recipe is very simple here - at the end of high school, we have to pass exams in Latvian, and no university, including technical university, does not accept the student if he cannot write the composition properly in Latvian... as it was before. When I joined the Riga Polytechnic Institute, I had to write the composition in Latvian, there were not only the highest mathematics, physics and other exams. In the technical institute, the production in Latvian was compulsory. So if you can't write... and it applies to Latvians... I agree that a great many Russians who study, for example, at Gymnasium 1, participate in the Olympics, speak Latvian better than Latvians who make up with foreign languages. So here's a very simple recipe: making up at the highest level, or you can never take up some kind of post, you can't enter universities. As for russification - this game is over. Let us come to our senses and punish any company that will allow itself to ignore this language in some way. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U294	The debate will continue after the break. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name to the Member, Kaspars Girgen, for the statement.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U295	Dear Members of the Group of Members in support of patients with rare diseases! We will have a meeting and we will also have a half-one live broadcast, and we will be able to see it here, either here or in the Red Hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U296	Thank you. Name Inese Voika to report the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U297	Colleagues! Not registered: Boriss Cilevičs, Gundars Dauge, Ilmārs Dūritis, Artuss Kaimiņš, Ieva Krapāne, Armands Krauze, Ainars Latkovskis, Juris Pūce, Andris Skride... Andris Skride is, Mārtiņš Stein... Mārtiņš Steins is also, Jānis Urbanovičs and Jānis Vucāns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U298	Thank you. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U299	Dear colleagues, we will continue the sitting of the Saeima with the examination of draft laws. On the agenda - draft law “Law on ensuring the status of Latvian language as the only state language”. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U300	Hello, honourable President. ( The drug is noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) Hello, honourable Members, honourable Members! We must thank Mr Kirštein... he's or isn't he? I don't see... that he expressed everything he said. It is unlikely that any of his colleagues from a political group or from a neighbouring political group could explain in such detail why this law should be adopted. That's really an in-depth reference. Who else will tell more about Alexander Pushkin's poetry, if not Alexander Kirštein! In the previous term, Members received documents for examination in the commissions, not as we are now receiving - in the e-mail - but often in the thick paper piles that we took out of the lockers, which are now on the bottom floor of the wardrobe, and every time I found a paper newspaper under the heading “DDD”. It was a newspaper issued by an extremely right-wing political group, challenging nationalist, all of which included in these three letters of de-advocacy, de-communisation and debugging. So gradually our mainstream ideology or such as the main ideology of our country is approaching these three letters. We have already learned the first two letters, and there is only one - the last - debugging. This draft law is a clear expression of how politics is now taking place: in existing and future development. The latest Members do not know, or remember, how in 2000, I forgive, in 1999 Latvian policy got stuck in a completely unexpected direction called “social integration”. The Ministry of Education and Science organised seminars to explain to school administrators and teachers how it is right, important and useful - to learn teaching in linguistics. Experts and experts from West Germany, from all the rest of Germany... Democrats went to Latvia to give their advice to all those enthusiasts who were convinced that, here, the bilateral teachings are the future of the Latvian education system. In addition, the former Minister of Education and Science Ina Druviete dared to say that, here, too, Latvians will learn Bulgarians. To my question, which I asked in the Consultative Council of the Ministry on minority education: “How many percent would you devote to learning in Latvian schools in other languages?” She replied after a short break: “Five percent.” You see, however, evolution was quite clear, and at that time there was also a fixed item - a special task minister in matters of community integration. The Soros Foundation activists self-collected minority societies next to themselves in order to convince us that this is our future: the integration of society, which was then referred to as the cohesion of society. I also took part in those seminars and those discussions. And once, after a very serious debate, some very active speakers were left, including, after a break, one lady, a respected age, the parent of me... I tried to convince him how good it will be, that there will be a united political nation, that we will be in Latvia, where everyone will have their place, and united in Latvia we will achieve all the goals set during the Latvian People's Front... She listened to me, listened to me, and after a brief pause she said this, very polite and worthy: “Mr. Pimenov, I don’t want to hear this language.” And this phrase sounded to me in my ears every time I heard reports about new draft laws, about the gradual transition to training in Latvian, about the loss of monuments, about the fact that we still need to somehow develop processes of social cohesion in order to ensure stronger positions of the Latvian language, and to give up the Soviet period in the field of Latvian heritage education, to give up segregation... and so on, and so on. But now I just close my speech... Yes, and then, after the Soros Foundation, there was another community, which I really respect with all my heart and without any land-use – it was the Centre for Public Policy PROVIDUS, which helps Latvia make better decisions in its policy, serves as a sanitary for bad decisions and promotes public participation. I would like to say that this whole debate and the debate on this first-reading draft law... The whole argument and the draft law are not against the Russian-speaking Latvian citizens, it is against those who make up the policy of Latvia, the national liberal wing of politics, who for decades convinced that it is really possible for all Latvian citizens to live on the Baltic coast without suspicion, without prejudice, by inheriting the democratic values of the West, and not just by sinking... I don't know if I correctly expressed this word in Latvian... but simply to lick into a completely different soil, where there will be no space or gap, where otherwise a person who thinks or speaks will be subject to control and supervision, in which language he or he will speak to the seller or the seller will address the buyer. I think this evolution is very significant. We are at a very dangerous point in the development of Latvia's policy, and I call once again on those Latvian politicians who consciously regard themselves as liberals and democrats to be very responsible for the implementation of this last “D” so that we do not develop this direction further and avoid new mistakes in the next Saeima. Be responsible, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U301	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U302	Ladies and gentlemen! The language question is a very sensitive thing for every person, I stress - for every person. Therefore, when talking about languages in general and about Latvian in the context of today's context, I think it is necessary to think about what you say and how you say. I think any draft law we're looking at applies to each one of us. I tried to apply this to myself, too. I have graduated from a Russian school called Lomonosov Gymnasium in Ulmanis’s time, where in Ulmanis’s time the teaching was in Russian. I have finished the Faculty of Chemistry of the Riga Polytechnic Institute in the Latvian flow - in the Latvian flow, because there was no flow of other languages at all. The State Language Inspectorate was also mentioned here. When I started taking the first steps in politics, the law demanded that every candidate who had no secondary education in Latvian... he had to pass a language examination. I got it. In a short time, I was called upon to the State Language Inspectorate because they had received a signal that I had bought a certificate and did not manage the Latvian language. I tried to go to the recheck. I did all this and thought it was right. But today we are talking about something else. We are not talking about the need for Latvian, it is necessary, it is important for many people, I would say that even for all people living in Latvia. But do we begin to use Latvian as a combat instrument, as a machine for machine guns, when talking about this? Is that right? Does it have an effect and a return? I think that more should be thought today about how to achieve a good result, a positive result. And here's a little derogation. The existence of many languages in Latvia has always been the richness of Latvia, which created a very interesting, very specific layer of culture in Latvia, which was then called a multicultural society or otherwise, but it was a speciality and a very attractive feature. And then they didn't talk about the proportions - how many Gentiles lived in the territory of Latvia and how long they lived here. It was about the fact that all languages are Latvia's riches - all languages - but Latvian is the dominant language. Nobody's gonna argue about it. I am talking about normal, intelligent people - whether they are Latvian or non-Latvian, Russian, Jewish, Polish, German or anyone else who lives in Latvia. There's no such dispute. The dispute is about something else: can bans have a positive effect? I doubt it. At the end of the 1980s, the first Latvian SSR law on language was passed. You can talk about whether it was good or bad, but the result was a massive campaign about learning Latvian language everywhere and always, and it had a very positive effect, because it was organized in institutions, factories, and other... free courses on farms for those people who wanted to learn Latvian. At that time, it was a mass habit. It took time, and Latvian became the state language. What has been done in 31 years - since the restoration of independence? It seems to me that it is self-critical to say that the work done is extremely little - extremely few! - 'cause we shouldn't talk about something about strengthening the language today. but what has been done - done is very little. First. Look at one problem that exists today and is up-to-date every day - Latvian language and literature teachers. Today they are also lacking in Latvian schools; I am not talking about non-Latvian schools. This is a huge problem. And how is this dealt with? It is being dealt with in an extremely bad way. If we want to ensure that language really is an internal necessity for every person, that means that the first thing we should strengthen is the provision of Latvian. I will never forget my teacher Cornelius Ikuniekis, who taught us not only language as such, but also taught us to love language and also to experience language nuances and language music, which is extremely important. What are we talking about today? We are talking about banning the use of other languages. There must also be consistency here. I cannot understand - when it comes to the fact that Latvian is an official state language - the President of Latvia at the German Embassy for the whole evening spoke and held a speech in German despite the organisation of simultaneous translation. Then we talk about the need to speak in Latvian at the official receptions that take place on the territory of Latvia. Perhaps let us look at ourselves when we accept foreign delegations here - members of the National Alliance also love to show their knowledge of English, which is very positive, but we are talking about the need to speak the state language at the Saeima House. Where is consistency? And the last thing I want to say. Mr Kirštein has spoken a lot today, he has already mentioned that there are a lot of lies around all those things, and his own speech contained a lot of lies of this kind. To say that all non-citizens are Russians (as can be seen from his further offers of repatriation), this is also not true. But one argument she spoke about was that this bill really does not work, because it does not deal with the task that Mr Kirstein tried to formulate here. Therefore, I think to use this kind of pre-election campaign without thinking about results, about the consequences that are reflected in families, people's hearts and souls, which either increase or reduce the desire to learn Latvian - I think it is dangerous, so I call for this draft law to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U303	The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U304	I think it is very important that today the Saeima passed a law on the protection of fur animals. It's very significant that here we can get support... All together... to defend fur animals, but once again a law will be passed that attacks the people. Yes, people, because you don't see people, they are people for you -- little people -- who you don't see, hear, understand, and, above all, you don't love. ( Milestones.) I will immediately turn to our so-called liberal wing, to the NEW Unity, to the Intelligent Mr. Shadursky, Professor, to the Development/About! ... What else were the liberals for us? Oh, the PROGRESSes still don't sit here, but they're going to be in full numbers - they're hoping. I will read a letter from a person who voted for one of these liberal forces in the last municipal elections, because he sees himself as an intelligent person, despite the fact that he, as strange as it were, is a Russian. He writes: “I am shocked at the law that the Saeima will consider today. The thing is that I've been disabled for 25 years, without hope of recovery, I drank very expensive pills not to die, but I was lucky - some time ago I got a very good job, a remote, in one of the largest banks in Latvia. I translated materials from Latvian to Russian for this bank, and thanks to this work and this salary I can do because I can survive to the disabled allowance, as we know, it is not possible in Latvia and Riga in particular.” And he writes to me: “Regina, is there at least a minimum hope that this law will not be passed, because otherwise I will remain without the means of living at all.” So far I have thought that we are living in a democratic country. And he writes: “Now I see that this is the beginning of fascism.” It is written (repeated) by a person who recently voted in favour of one of the liberal parties. More. The title of this draft law is Latvian as the only language of the country... and so on. I am sorry, this draft law is not just about communication between the state, local governments and the people. There is direct and gross interference in business. I will allow all viewers to quote Article 3 of this draft law: “In addition to or in addition to the state language, use of a language other than the official language of the European Union, subject to the second paragraph of Article 2 of this Law, the second and third paragraphs of this Article and Article 7 of this Law, it shall be prohibited for a state or municipal institution or a public person capital company as well as for the following economic operators:” - and now is followed by the list - “the public service provider; the electronic communications operator; the payment service provider; the credit provider; the consumer; the energy trader to natural persons, the public transport service provider; the residential house manager who is an economic operator; the airport, bus station or railway station; the taxi service provider; the waste collection service provider. ( Internouncing call.) ... The restriction referred to in the first subparagraph shall apply to any contact with a natural person as a recipient or user of a service (e.g. any viewing material, application, website, Internet banking, portal, advertising or other communications, correspondence, text of the contract... “ and so on. Advertising! Sorry, and I hear that this bill is not in line with our LDDK, LTRK, entrepreneurs... AU, TV, radio. You hear that you will no longer have any advertising in the Russian on which you deserve without shame... deserved to the Russians of Latvia! There will be no more of this opportunity - thanks to what? For drafters of legislation. Very interesting bill. I hope, however, that we will collect 34 votes to stop this nightmare. ( Interface: “Do not lose it! ”) ) I am very close to business. You read this nightmare? What will be next, what will this Saeima accept in its agony? ( Internouncing call.) And the last thing I wanted to say is our Latvian business for years since the beginning of the 1990s... and I have concrete examples because I have worked there - in business companies where the Russians deserved - they had never been ashamed to do so. They have suddenly become so more patriotic, but I still hope that their business goal remains. And if you don't stop these lords with their dreams of being in the Saeima in a great number, you won't have that opportunity anymore. What do I mean? Money for money! - there is no nationality, and entrepreneurs understand it, but the drafters have no mind or heart. Thank you, all I wanted to say to you. ( Internoint.) Some Members are applauding.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U305	Name to Member Uldis Budric.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U306	Highly respected Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I'll try to sum up what I heard. I understand that the language (at least Russian) sings in ATMs. I think that culture - a Russian culture - is being maintained just by pressing the key "2". Culture is threatened if the list of buses is not Russian. I think it's funny what you're trying to say. Does anyone prevent you from caring for your culture and language? Copy, talk, sing! But what our red speakers have forgotten is that we have the results of a referendum on the only language in the country, which they cannot accept. I would also like to remind you... full text... what each of you has promised by standing in this platform, making a solemn promise or taking an oath - to maintain Latvian as the only language of the country. This does not mean that the handwriting at the ATM or some list of buses should be Russian. I don't know, I think you should be ashamed. And about English. English - European Union language, business language, international business language, academic language. You really compare the international, academic, business language with the bus list? Have you even read this bill? The same rules were in place right from the beginning... The Director of the State Language Centre also said that these norms wanted to be incorporated into the first version of the State Language Law, it was not done purely for geopolitical reasons. We are in the European Union, we are a democratic country, why should we not maintain our language? You want to care for a foreign language with inscriptions in ATMs. I really call for support for this draft law. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U307	Name of Member Dagmara Beitner-Le Galla.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U308	Dear colleagues, I also come to the table to defend the draft law presented by my colleagues. This bill is necessary because 10 years have passed since the language referendum and we see that the decisions of this language referendum, the implementation, have deformed. The language referendum won with Latvian as the only language of the country, but everything happens in life... As it has been, it has been... The Soviet era. We actually live in a two-language situation where in fact 90 percent of people who do not have Latvian as their mother tongue understand it. And this law means a zero tolerance, an end to tolerance, so that Latvian is not ignored in our only historical territory, where Latvian can be practiced. That is the case: with this law, we are trying to strengthen the position and situation of the actual end of multilingualism. The law must determine the functioning of the state language status in the territory of Latvia in the public sphere, because it is very often felt that Latvian has become a minority language, in the public sphere two languages prevail everywhere. And this second language is not the language of the European Union. Once again, I call on all Latvian citizens who do not have their own Latvian language to reflect on their country of origin, which you could best demonstrate by using Latvian in the public sphere. I call on everyone in this hall to be politicians who understand their role: we must protect the preamble to the Constitution and the Constitution, which formulates the task of ensuring the existence and development of Latvian language and culture throughout the centuries. This tabled draft law is one of the attempts to test how it works, how we can put it into practice. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U309	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U310	Hello, honorary Saeima! I would like to reflect on the comments made by other Members. First. How wrong and unfair it is that one country's language is now being strengthened. You lost in a referendum in 2012, and you lost when the Soviet Union collapsed. Next thing. Stepanenko, who was passionately saying. — Dep. Mr Stepanenko's intermediate call.) ... the god who will then work in Latvia if the non-citizens of Latvia leave! I would remind you that they are mostly a burden on our social budget (interfaces.) ... they are beneficiaries of the social budget, because most of them are inactive. ( Milestones.) Next thing. Lochmele (interim call.) said that fascism is reborn here, as if it were quoting what a gentleman said. Well, Johaid, you're the most real fascist!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U311	Colleagues! I invite you, however, to know that we are at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U312	Set (Interfaces.) ... insist that Russian should have some dominant status in Latvia - it is the most artificial fascism. ( Insight: “What, will you be ashamed of the speaker? ” ; methacrylics.) If we take a look at what this definition is like (Minimum.) We see a direct way to try to expand Russia's sphere of influence in Latvia. And that will not be the case. ( Internouncing call.) It has to be understood that Russia and all the Russians, along with Russia's aggressive war in Ukraine, will be disdained throughout the Western civilised world. That is why Russian citizens are currently denied entry to many European countries, which is why sanctions have been introduced against the Russian Federation and its citizens, and (Minimum: You have introduced sanctions against Pushkin!) ; “Who is Pushkin?” ), the longer this aggressive war will continue, the longer Putin will stay in power, the worse their lives will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U313	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U314	Dear President, Honourable Members! I want to express my thanks in five minutes. First of all, thank you to Mr Dolgopolova. I really agree with what he says - he mentioned the multicultural society - but I recommend reading where this multicultural society led us. And I recommend the U.S. Ambassador in Latvia in 1940 and the French Ambassador's memories of events where they tell us that a striking minority representatives expect Soviet tanks in Riga. You can read Frank Gordon, an Israeli writer, or Mavrik Wolfson, who said: “We kissed tanks. It was a great mistake.” But if you are talking about the multicultural society of pre-war Latvia, allow me to quote the book Razvedka i Kremls, published in Moscow. Zapski Nezelatino svidetēle’. I'll translate...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U315	Mr. Kirstein... Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U316	‘Moscow and intelligence. Unwanted comments of the witness’, written by Pavel Sudoplatov, head of the Czech section of terrorism. He describes the meeting at Belarus before the occupation of the Baltic States: “Our main support in the Baltic States will be Russian and Jewish residents.” I can bring this book if anyone's interested. ( Insects: ‘ Lending! ’) ) Next. Mr Dolgopolov made the only mistake: I do not think Russian, I think Russian-speaking, it is a big difference, because in the Soviet Union and Russia, more than a hundred nationalities were actually destroyed, so that we cannot tell what is there by nationality. Or... they are united by trust in Marxism laninism; today - 80 percent by trust in Putin, and they are united only by language, but ethnically already they are not Russians, of course, so that there are different nationalities. My second thanks to Mrs Lochmele. She said quite rightly that businesses had moved to Russia during the Soviet occupation, and in these 30 years of independence, it was the entrepreneurs who were connected with Russia who earned the most, let us not deny it because there was no other knowledge. Remember, starting with President Kaul, who said: “I will go to Moscow and blow out all the tractors that I need... against agricultural production’. He was dismissed at the time by the Minister. And so it continued to this day. In the same way, we allowed in vain the privatisation of “Latvian gas”, which was bought for “Gazprom” money. Today, Mr Gobzem sold the whole party to Gazprom... “Gaso” there... Look at Vidzeme, which is the first. All this goes on. But why, Mrs. Locmele did not say it. Because Latvia had no history... In practice, the economy had no contact with Russian businessmen. I will remind only a few things - the largest Latvian entrepreneurs in the times of the cara and in the time of the independent Latvia, starting with Russo-Balt, a company in Cologne, called Van der Zypen & Charlier, or the largest... one of the world's largest rubber factories, which produced various rubber products and was larger than Michelin after the number and income of car tyres, but was already named Baltic India Rubber Company at the time. And we know that Hirsch, who had the largest textile company in Latvia... and he bought Kaunas flax and factory in Norway. He already had German credits and the knowledge of German engineers, which he could two or three years after... destroyed in Latvia... make one of the most modern companies. Let us also remember that the most modern power plant in the 1930s was in Ķeguma; it was built in cooperation with Swedish and Latvian engineers. And the most modern cement and slate combinate in Europe was built in Brocene - in cooperation with German engineers. There was no Russian influence. The whole Soviet system was destroyed. For all the minks, forks, shields, VEF-12 planes and so on, and the automatic machine tools that VEF produced for export... And let's remember that Kuze bought chocolate in Africa and exported to the United States. There was no need for a Russian market. So thank you for the reminder, but I'll end with... Let's remember 60 thousand... There's also our mistake... ( Thank you again to Mrs Ločmele.) We allowed or - the result of our policy was that 60,000 Germans, relatives of Krapa, Simenson, Quantum, Bush, with all these banks, with engineering, with capital, and 600 thousand colloquials from Pskov and Bryansk. So what do you want? And if we consider Russian to be the main language in this way... It's the main thing... Now don't smile, Mrs Lochmele, the main thing is Russian. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele’s intermediate call.) I call “Latvian Gas” - I am answered in Russian: press “1” if you poor people want to speak Latvian and press “2” if you want to speak Russian. Everywhere... In all these companies, they answer. If we do not change this law, we will not restore the situation when Latvia and Riga were dominant in Europe.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U317	Thank you, Mr. Kirstein. Time's up. Thank you. The name is Sandy Riekstin.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U318	Hello, colleagues! It's a shame that Mrs. Lochmele left... I'd like to reflect on what she just said, ironising on this list... what economic operators have written there. And more. I will give you a real example. For several years, it has been possible to live in China. The owner of the house does not speak or understand Latvian; he speaks Russian only; the accounting of the company, the language of communication is Russian; he does not speak Latvian or English. And now we pretend we're fine if a Latvian living in this house needs an interpreter to get to know this company when he needs to find out something about the bill or something. Clearly, this is also recorded in the law. I don't need to learn and figure out how to communicate with these people in Latvia. There were regular repairs... I don't know, waterpipe, electricity and so on, statements were made mostly in Russian; at best, they were translated into disgusting, terrifying Latvian language, so that when you read the exact translation, it happens that Russian-speaking people are connected to water on Monday, but Latvians will never be switched off. Well, that's what it was written about. I'm sorry, colleagues. Sorry, colleagues - we live in Latvia, and if you provide such services, you have to communicate in Latvian. And if someone like that has that wool grips his head, there's a door. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U319	Name to Member Janis Butan. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U320	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Now there are ideological conditions of war. They are also in Latvia. This means that everything that is somehow attributable or related to Russia or the former USSR is used as an ideological weapon of war to create a feeling in people that Latvia is a weak and failed country and at the same time to increase Russia's influence. For these purposes, everything is used in turn - street names, USSR symbols, monuments, various birthdays of USSR time workers and other memory days; one of the most powerful weapons is Russian presence in everyday communication, public communication - and not only. The law ensuring the status of Latvian as the only state language is adopted in order to reduce to a minimum paragraph 1... the circumstances that have been identified, i.e. those that have been mentioned above. So I would take one of the most influential ideological weapons out of the game. Without a change in Russia's foreign policy, it is quite possible that such a legal framework would not be as relevant as it has been so far. In particular, Latvia's policy on the language issue in general would be much more liberal and Conservatives should not come with this initiative. I call on you to support this. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U321	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U322	Dear colleagues, Mr. Dombrava, addressing his colleagues in the Saeima, certainly wanted to address them in the appropriate Latvian language, giving their surname and, of course, saying "Mr" or "Mr" - this should be the case. I understand that Mr. Dombrava probably has not really learned to talk to his colleagues. I am admiring - and rightly so. But if we are talking about these comments that we have heard - about foreign students, about the fact that, if we are told where to go, then really will then have to understand what is happening to the Treasury - then here I would like to say that the National Association has been seeing and watching what is happening to foreign students for years. The flow of foreign students is not controlled... and their employment and their stay in Latvia - they are viewed through their fingers, and you know it very well, because we have talked to you about this topic. You said: “We don’t know what happens there, what quotas are, how many students can stay in Latvia at all, how many students can work here.” And nobody is worried that foreign students do not speak Latvian, even when calling... and by bringing food (Interior call.) ... You are not concerned about this, but at the moment this law places the emphasis on the fact that you believe that it is the Russian language that needs to disappear. I've also heard now that Pushkin is also guilty of all that happens... But if we blame Pushkin, then definitely all the Russian architects who have built houses on Elizabeth Street and elsewhere, and certainly these houses also need to be dismantled, according to your logic. Everything must be removed, all the authors who have ever been in our history, who have had a connection with Russia, must certainly also forget, burn all the books, all the paintings. Colleagues, you will have so much to do, so much to do! I call for no support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U323	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U324	Some remarks. First. I would like to apologise to Mr Kirstein. I was really imprecise because he spoke about the Russian-speaking people, not calling them so; I called them Russian. I'm sorry. I would like to know, to be honest, from which sources you have received this number - 60 thousand colloquials from Pskov, because... I honestly say: when I travel all over Latvia, I could not count even ten. Note 2: The aim of this draft law is not to strengthen the Latvian language. The aim of this draft law is to combat Russian. I have to say that if this kind of attack were directed against any other language spoken by people living in Latvia, I would say the same thing. And the third. This bill appeared as evidence that language policy had failed for 32 years. If that is the case, then perhaps there should be such a law, but also then it... think and meditate in such a way that the tongue is related to the brain, not vice versa. And the last one. In practical terms and from the point of view of the legislator, it would be right not to adopt a law on strengthening, but to amend and strengthen the state language law. That would be right, right and wise. I call for this not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U325	Name to Member Ainars Barkis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U326	Dear colleagues, There were many personal examples, many emotions. I also grew up in a situation where no one offered us special Russian language courses. Russian had to know the language of the war, and that's it. The teacher came and spoke Russian. I have received a lot of humiliations because I am a Latvian, because I speak my language - in Latvian, because I have no shame in my country - to answer a Russian question in Latvian. Imagine how embarrassing I am! Where am I living?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, Let us therefore remember one very important thing. This is a question of... You like the following terms lately... for the living space. John’s Gospel tells us: “In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. It was beginning with God. Through Him everything has been created, and without Him nothing has been created that is. He had life, and life was the light of men. Light shines in darkness, but darkness does not accept it.” God bless Latvia! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U327	The name to Member Eva Marty.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U328	Colleagues! Latvianism is the highest value of the country. When establishing the state of Latvia, everyone agreed to be Latvian and under this flag, under this language, to be Latvia with this language. Latvianism unites, Latvianism does not offend, and Latvianism has power. ( The drug is noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) Latvianism is a special value in the European Union, because our slogan in the European Union is "united in diversity". And Latvianism is the special sign of the difference that makes us original and unique under the diversity of this Europe, under this slogan. Latvianism is our cultural code, our diamond core. Latvianism is the one who unites speakers of all languages who want to live in Latvia. And if someone really doesn't want -- someone from the left, from my left -- then I really... I say what social networks say: love the land you live in or go to their land (Interview.) , which you love. You have the opportunity to pack the suitcase, go to the station (intercom.) and come to Putin, and love him with all your heart. But let Latvia be Latvian, because Latvianism is the highest value of the country. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Some Members are applauding.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U329	The name to Member Igor Pimenov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U330	Good afternoon! It is a pity that Mr Kirstein was late for the beginning of the sitting. I dedicated a whole part of the previous speech to you. Mr Budrik and Mr Dombrava, you will hardly be able to rise above Mr Kirštein. Kalngalas is therefore also a hillside - above it no one is... Mr. Budrick, you said... Well, it was... No, no... Who said that? I think Mr Dombrava, these are your words: how unfair it is that the only national language has been strengthened. You have heard those words from this troupe today. Nobody said that. Nobody said that! Our allies, our colleagues have long strengthened their positions to defend that Latvian is the only language in the country. That's why, too, that's why! - a referendum, a poll that you have repeatedly referred to, is not a value of our ideology. No way! I would also like to quote Mrs Beitneres-Le Galla. You said we live in multilingualism. Dagmara, Mrs Dagmara, 62 percent of the population in Latvia speak Latvian and 38 percent in other languages. 37 percent... 37.7 percent live... in Russian. Bilingualism is inevitable. And, Dagmar, it will not be that the Russian-speaking Latvian... Latvian members will speak their mother tongue only in bedrooms, beds. No, you will hear Russian everywhere - all public events, trolley buses, pavements, theatres and cinemas. ( Internouncing call.) That is also the language of our country. It is not a state language, but it is a language of our environment. I just... when I hear these words, such statements... I hear those old guys again and again... since 1999... The old lady who told me: “Mr. Pimenova, I don’t want to hear this language.” Well, but we're gonna have to hear it. Mrs. Mārtage, those who speak Russian at home will not leave here. They are already here - they work, they pay taxes, they raise children, they build houses, bridges, roads. , treating patients and patients, teaching teachers, students, as well as Latvians. We've grown up together. ( Insight: “We are not grown up! ” ) Now it will not be possible to create an ethnicly healthy, one-language nation. We'll be together. This is inevitable. Any attempt, including this draft law, will only cause new pain in society. It divides us, it's not fair. ( Internouncing call.) I would simply like to turn to those Latvians who listen to me now, and to draw attention to the fact that it would not be right in any case if we were to argue about such things as language. Nobody disputes the position of the Latvian language in Latvia, it is our value, but we will be aware that we are a multinational country and otherwise there will be no one; everyone will stay here in Latvia. So only harmony, peace is the only solution, and therefore any derogation from this principle will only cause pain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U331	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U332	In 1991, Latvia's independence would not have been possible if Russian-speaking people living here had not stood up for it and had not participated in and supported the Latvians in barricades. These people were in favour of independence, they tried to protect and help it, and I am very sorry that this draft law is once again trying to divide people and to hate one another. The statements made here by the tribunal are humiliating. I believe that they continue to divide society even further: who has to leave, where to leave and why to leave. Why leave those who went to barricades in 1991 and defended Latvia's independence? Why leave for those who are here in several... in many generations live, pay taxes, develop the economy? Why now - why now! - children in schools sing 90 percent of their performances in English? What are you doing? ( Internouncing call.) You simply replace one language by another - also a foreign language. It's an instigation of hatred. I would like to say the following: my father at home, living in Latgale, the old believer, when a Latvian came to visit him, always spoke to him in Latvian, even if he went to Russian. This is the level of intelligence, so people need to be allowed to use it if they are able to speak and speak Russian in the working environment. You don't have to divide society, you don't have to humiliate people. Let the suitcases be stored by those who want to travel to the United Kingdom. ( Milestones.) In realizing your policy, you have already achieved that 200 thousand Latvians have left Latvia. 200 thousand Latvians left! 20 thousand died last year; only 14 thousand children were born. This is the result of your policy. Please continue the same way. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U333	Name to Member Ivan Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U334	Hello... Good evening, honourable colleagues! It is very important that you do what you write. The 77th session of the UN General Assembly is currently held in New York in the last days, and yesterday the President of Latvia took part. I would like to ask you: “What language did the President of Latvia speak at the UN General Assembly yesterday?” This is what we need to ask our interpreters to comply with the State language law before giving something here in the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U335	Name to Member Edvin Schnorem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U336	Hello, dear colleagues! I want to answer, to clarify a little what Mrs Švekova said here. She said that in 1991 the Russians were on the barricades and supported the independence of Latvia. I would like to remind you that a survey took place on 3 March 1991, in which people took part and voted in favour of Latvia's independence, had to drop the newsletter, whether you were for or against Latvia's independence. 411 thousand Latvians voted against the independence of Latvia. When we needed it so much - we needed it so much that we had this Russian-language support - then it was what it was. I call on you to ask Mr Buzajeva, who has studied this matter in a very detailed manner, and he also claims that 20 percent, a maximum of 20 percent, supported the Russian-speaking Latvian independence. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Stepanenko: “You are still looking for... ?” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U337	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? ( The drug is noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) Colleagues, please give the floor to the rapporteur on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U338	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to assure you that this draft law does not concern the language in which people speak to one another in public transport, at home or in a kitchen, or at work - between themselves... private negotiations. This draft law does not regulate it all (interfaces.) This bill regulates what public communication is, including - yes, true - between private operators and their customers. A client in Latvia does not have to speak a foreign language. If a client is a Russian-speaking client, he can say at any time that he is willing to speak Russian, and if a businessman is able to provide it, this draft law does not prevent a businessman from doing so with his client who has initiated a Russian-language conversation. Consequently, these concerns are unfounded. On behalf of the Commission, I would also like to remind you that those politicians who put forward political arguments against this bill campaigned for another country's language - Russian 10 years ago. ( Milestones.) On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U339	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Law on ensuring the status of Latvian language as the only state language” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 61, for - 18, for - 1. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U340	The deadline for the second reading of the proposals is 10 days, i.e. 2 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U341	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 2 October this year. The agenda is an examination of the own-initiative proposals. On the agenda – draft decision “On targeted action by the government to overcome the crisis caused by the rise in energy prices”, submitted by Members Viktors Valainis, Jānis Vucāns, Uldis Augulis, Janīna Jalinska, Gundars Dauge, Romanas Money, Maris Kučinskis, Raimonds Bergmanis, Jānis Dūklavs, Edgars Tavars, Ramonas Petravičs, Maris Možvillo, Armands Krauze, Jūlia Stepanenko, Lubova Švecova, Ralfs Nemiro, Karina Sprūde, Ieva Krapāne, Kaspars Gen, Didzis Šmits, Jānis Urbanovičs, Valerijs Agešins, Edgars Kaspars Kaspars Kasparspars Kasparspars, Armands Kasparsparspars, Armandsparspars Jury, Digr, Digorspardspardspargsparg, Ivāds and Ivins Gymblee-Fille, Gene-Fis-Fis-Fis-Fille-Fille, Gene-Fille, Gene-Fille and Bioe-Fille and Bioe-Fille, Bioe, Bioe and Bioe, Bioe and Bioe-Fis-Fisss-Fisssssssssssssssss, Bio and Bio, Biossssssssssssssssssssssss, Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bioe, Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Biossssssss, Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Biosssssssssssssss; Bioeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee The rapporteur will report on behalf of the Commission on both drafts of the decision, and the debate on both drafts of the decision will also be brought together. Then we will vote first on the draft decision that the Commission has asked for to be rejected, and then on the alternative decision proposed by the Commission. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission – Member Inga Goldberga.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U342	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government has examined the draft decision submitted by 34 members of the Saeima “On targeted action of the Government in overcoming the crisis caused by the rise in energy prices”, which is in line with the interests of the State of Latvia. After hearing the representatives of municipalities, the Latvian Municipal Union, the Latvian Association of Great Cities, the Latvian Association of Heat Companies and getting to know the information provided by the Ministry of Economics about the planned aid, the Commission decided to reject the said draft decision and to submit the draft alternative decision prepared by the Saeima for consideration by the Committee. The alternative draft decision drawn up by the Commission intends to instruct the Cabinet of Ministers to develop and submit to the Saeima within one month appropriate proposals for actions to overcome the crisis caused by the rise in energy prices, thus providing clear support of the Saeima to the government, working in this direction. On behalf of the Commission, I call on the Commission not to support the draft decision submitted by 34 Saeima Members, but to support the draft alternative decision drawn up by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U343	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U344	Dear colleagues, First of all, thank you for your understanding. I also think that such a draft decision, which obliges the government to work on additional forms of aid, will give further motivation. But, as our colleague Vjačeslav Dombrovskis said in another debate today, a number of commissions are already looking at the potential new support mechanisms and forms of the government. In this case, however, I would like to say that, of course, we are all familiar, and not just in a single presentation, the Ministry of Economics has already presented these, so to speak, new forms of aid, but I call on colleagues not only to get acquainted with these forms, but also to try to calculate and read what these potential new forms... How they will reflect... for example, how much will it actually cost the two-room apartment in Bauska - how much will electricity cost, how much will it actually consume and what will it cost? If we look at the government's proposal originally submitted, then the Ministry of Economics is already on board these documents... The documents attached show that from June there is a significant increase in costs – both tariffs for district heating in Riga have risen significantly in many regions, and electricity prices have fluctuated significantly. It is absolutely clear that the aid package adopted is completely inadequate. To be honest, people will not even feel it. If the rise in energy was about two billion at the beginning of the summer, then this package, which was about 650 million, will unfortunately not bring any tangible benefits to the people of Latvia. For households, this burden will also be too high. If we get to know this new offer, which would be additional aid per block, 50... 11 million, then, in my view, the government should continue to work, because I think there is a new situation. Economists already estimate that the rise in energy prices - there are different calculations - is now far from two billion. It's different... It will cost our economy today from two and a half to three billion. Mr Dombrovskis's name of 800 million will not, by its very nature, help to address this situation. If we look at this compensation up to 100 kilowatts, this fixed tariff... and then 50 per cent of the increase, for households it will be still difficult to raise. A number of households will also find it difficult to pay. Everyone has forgotten about the business environment at the moment. All these signals... Is it the small brewery industry that today signals that they are likely to have to stop production, or are they the big companies that are just doing this 200 million aid... So to say, it disappears. I think that a number of our exporting entrepreneurs - those are those that we should think about first and that should provide additional support so that these sectors do not lose their export potential. Colleagues, I call not only on this draft decision to support the government coming with additional financial instruments as soon as possible (they are needed), but also to listen... and to think that the fiscal amount of this funding is too low. It is quite simply to add another 150 million to what is already in place. That's too little - if you add 150 million - price growth has risen significantly, there's another half a billion to a billion. What will this 150 million bring? They will likewise disappear, and no one will feel them. Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore call on you to work with your ministers so that a decision that is in the interests of the people comes from the government - a decision that will really make life for our people a little simpler than it is now. At this point in time, I think that people will not simply feel these kinds of support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U345	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U346	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, It is interesting to see how different the number of speakers on this subject is - the energy crisis and state aid - and on the previous topic. I look forward to coming Thursday, colleagues. But that's the subject. It is not quite my job - to talk about the planned support of the Ministry of Economics in the field of energy, but it still has a parliamentary secretary of the Ministry of Economics... and so on, but nevertheless, I would like to point out some serious inaccuracies in what my colleague Valaiņš said. First of all, aid to companies is foreseen - aid to exporting companies is envisaged, and this aid has already been worth EUR 100 million, and now, if we are accurate, perhaps even 50, and about 100, all... to all legal entities. Additional aid is also planned for exporting companies. Support for small and medium-sized enterprises is also planned for the second time, which is also completely correct. Therefore, your claim that no aid is planned for companies is not true. We can talk about how adequate this support is and how specifically it needs to be supported, but then I would also expect some proposals on the substance, which you do not agree with in the proposal of the Ministry of Economics and what specific and why you offer. As regards aid, if we are talking about the heating sector and the gas ceiling and the electricity price ceiling, then also - what exactly do you propose, how much will it cost to the public budget? We need to understand that all the state aid that will be provided is that we are talking only about debt. Given that interest rates are rising throughout the euro area, it seems, according to today's news, that growth is going to be even faster than expected so far, it is clear that every euro borrowed will have to pay no interest rate, as it were, close to zero, to which we may have been accustomed in recent years, but perhaps three, perhaps four percent. As I said, it would be good if we had some more discussion on the substance of such issues than on the issues we have just heard about - how many were there? - more than an hour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U347	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U348	Colleagues, if by nature, certainly 850... the approximate 800-850 million aid, which is now planned, against the increase of two and a half billion, in my opinion, is not enough. If we look at the next budget, of course I agree with Mr Dombrovskis: the next budget will certainly have to be planned with more or less deficits to cover it in some way. But now we can't afford more than... This can be about two billion euros in energy resources that we are planning to put on our citizens and businesses. That's impossible. If we are talking about some kind of support programmes, price caps, as I have already mentioned, we can model these offers. As soon as you wake them up, so you realize that that man, that house, that payment will not be paid. Do they pay right now... For private homes, when the bills come for 700 euros... If €700 were to be replaced by €500, this does not change the substance, nor is it an invoice for the household. The aid currently proposed - the 800 million package - is too small, it should be many times larger - is many times larger. That is what the government needs to be aware of. The second option of how we get to these decisions will be when people get these bills and force them... get out of the streets and force him to pay... force the government to take these decisions. Why do we have to wait for the moments when society is reaching this result forcefully? You have to be able to count a little as well. All these calculations could be made already in June, could be made in May! All of this was known. Unfortunately, the government has not done its homework at the moment. And now too, when we are standing in front of the heating season - which has already started elsewhere - and energy costs are rising, we still do not see government decisions on the substance. With such figures, the energy crisis and the whole weight of the population of Latvia will be carried out by Latvian entrepreneurs, because this support is simply insufficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U349	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U350	Dear colleagues, Once again, however, I would call on my fellow Members... Well, if you say it's not enough, then say it's enough? For example, if we're already talking about numbers and so on... How will you look in our heating season, so say, the typical month? We're in one month's consumption... demand is about 650 gigawatt hours. During this heating season, thanks to the fact that gas purchases were as they were, we entered the semi-empty Incukalns. Our TEC and HES produce so little that we will need almost half to import. That would be about 300 gigawatt hours. This means that if prices are EUR 300 per megawatt-hour, we will have to pay EUR 90 million each month for imported electricity. It's gonna be half a billion in six months. If you offer to compensate completely for this, then, of course, this means that neither households nor businesses will have any incentive to save. Then the question is: how long will we pay half a billion a year in this way only in the heating season for imported energy? And it is not written, as I said, what are borrowing costs and so on. That is why I would call for a really concrete... What is the alternative that you are proposing - specifically. You're not satisfied with the ceiling today, if I don't beg you, 170 to... 100 kilowatt hours a month. Offer yours. ( Internouncing call.) The parliamentary roll of order guarantees that this is my last speech on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U351	Thank you. Mr. Pimenov, will it be enough for you to stop? Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U352	Colleagues Dombrovskis is surprised at why no one has applied to speak about the document. Because the document is very simple, it does not require any analysis or figures for the time being, it is simply a decision to ask the government to draw up and then also to report on how the government can and will address the problems facing the state and society. We are not demanding anything else now. I call on you to support our draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U353	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added on behalf of the Commission? No, not to be added. But there are two draft decisions. It would, however, be desirable to report on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U354	Colleagues, I would like to remind you that, by nature, we debated these issues very widely both in the sub-committee, dealing with everything that relates to municipalities and in two committee meetings, and that is why an alternative draft decision was created, which I call for support, but... and it contains both a specified text and a specified task for the Cabinet of Ministers. On the other hand, I call for the draft decision tabled by Members to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U355	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft decision presented by Members “On targeted action by the government in response to the crisis caused by the rise in energy prices” (No. 986/Lm13)! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About -4, against -69, refraining from -6. The draft decision is rejected. Please call me! We will vote on the alternative draft decision submitted by the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government “On actions of the Government of Latvia to overcome the crisis caused by the rise in energy prices” (No. 996 Lm13)! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The decision has been taken. ( Milestones.) Next, consideration of Members' requests. Opinion of the Appeals Board Member Viktors Valaiņa, Jānis Vacāns, Karina Sprūdes, Jānis Dūklavs. , Ieva Krapāne, Ramonas Petravičas, Ralfa Nemiro, Alda Gobzema, Julia Stepanenko, Edgars Tatars, Māra Kučinska’s request to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “On the delay of Minister of Education and Science A. Muižniece’s discussion with LIZDA and prevention of teacher strike.” On behalf of the Commission, Ivars Puga, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U356	Hello, colleagues! Consequently, the opinion of the Requesting Commission. The inquiry panel examined the request made by Members Viktors Valaiņa, Jānis Vucanas, Karina Sprūdes, Jānis Dūklavs, Ieva Krapāne, Ramonas Petravičas, Ralfa Nemiro, Alda Gobzema, Julia Stepanenko, Edgars Tatars, Māra Kučinskas to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “On the delay of the Minister of Education and Science A. Muižniece to discuss with LIZDA and prevent the strike of educators” (No. 85/P13). By voting six for, eight against and one Member, the Commission found this request rejected. Moreover, as is well known, the strike prevention process has not come to an end in favour of a strike. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U357	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the request made by Member Viktoras Valaiņa, Jānis Vacāns, Karina Sprūde, Jānis Dūklavs, Ieva Krapāne, Ramonas Petravičas, Ralfa Nemiro, Alda Gobzema, Julia Stepanenko, Edgars Tatars, Māra Kučinskis to the Prime Minister (Noise in Hall. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “On the delay of Minister of Education and Science A. Muižniece’s discussion with LIZDA and prevention of teacher strike”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 32, against - 54, abstaining - not. The request is rejected. We shall proceed with the agenda after a break. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name For Inese Voika to read the registration results.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U358	Colleagues! Not registered: Uldis Augulis, Boriss Cilevičs, Gundars Dauge, Jānis Dūklavs, Artuss Kaimiņš, Ieva Krapāne, Armands Krauze, Ainars Latkovskis, Jānis Urbanovičs and Jānis Vucāns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U359	Thank you. Interruption until 3.30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U360	Dear colleagues, I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber. We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - reports from the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Law on the State Defence Service” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Against” has applied to speak by Ivan Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U361	Dear colleagues, ‘ The Social Democratic Party is opposed to the way in which the government and the Saeima coalition are moving towards the introduction of a mandatory state defence service in Latvia. After the Government's plan, the State Defence Service will gradually be implemented from 1 January 2023, but according to officially disseminated information, the Minister of Defence will have to submit to the Cabinet the legislative act necessary for the implementation of the SRD by the end of September. I guess they did it. Similarly, by the end of September, working groups will need to be set up to decide on the organisation of civil service and VAD databases. It will also be established by the end of September. In turn, the Ministry of Defence intends to submit the costs of introducing mandatory service in Latvia to the Cabinet of Ministers only by the end of the year. I would like to remind you that we will have elections on 1 October, next 14 October. Saeima - starts its work from November 1. As long as we elect the government... Four years ago it took almost three months, and you can't know how long it would take 14. In the family. When we have the budget, a big question. Such an approach indicates that the establishment of the state defence service is hasty, and this suggests that it is aligned with the electoral term of the Saeima, rather than being implemented in a targeted and planned manner. ‘ The Social Democratic Party points out that strengthening national defence capabilities is a systematic task, not a campaign-like one. This requires a serious dialogue with society, and it should be a public-accepted solution rather than a forced one, and provide clear answers on how the interests of students will be protected, the young families with children, the elderly, who are the only people to be called, and so on, and so on. The public also needs accurate information on the costs of implementation of the SRD. Instead, the public messages focus on the punishment measures that will be used to avoid the designation. This does not promote citizens' trust and support for the proposed concept of national defence. ‘ The Social Democratic Party calls for the hasty implementation of the SRD to be postponed, first of all developing a detailed regulatory framework, carrying out detailed financial calculations, widely discussing the state defence services in society and receiving clear support from it for the reforms planned. Today we will vote against. We cannot support the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U362	Edwin Schnore, a Member, has applied for the floor.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U363	Hello, dear colleagues! Once again, it is absolutely clear that this issue cannot be postponed, as the previous speaker has called for here. We know that Russia announced the mobilisation yesterday, and it is absolutely clear that Latvia must respond and be prepared to respond adequately to this. And the national defence service is, in my opinion, a very adequate response. I am pleased that this issue has finally been on the Saeima's agenda, because the National Union, I remind you, has already tabled a similar draft law in 2017. That was then rejected. But I thought... It was also clear at that time that we would certainly come back early or late, and now we have come back to it. I firmly believe that this draft law should be supported. It is also absolutely clear that there can be no comprehensive national defence without a mandatory military service - a national defence service - and without any young man, a young citizen, having acquired military skills. I therefore call for this draft law to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U364	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Law on the State Defence Service” to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 57, no, 18, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions” presented by the Cabinet be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Official Electronic Addresses” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law of the National Armed Forces” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Against’ applied to speak Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U365	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I have the honour to work within the Strategic Communication Commission, which concerns the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption. Unfortunately, we do not see either Mr Pabrika or Mr Garison in these months. Why could the Minister and the Secretary of State not have been able to talk to the Members and explain to them their vision of how to offer the public this contentious project? I think this is because Mr Pabrika is a very decisive candidate Prime Minister, dealing with his political PR, meeting with Arestovič from Kiev, but Garison is very busy with real estate management. As a matter of fact, I perceive the package of draft laws of the state defence service as such a convulsive attempt to create at least something pre-election in the situation of stress and military psychosis, which has been deliberately created in Latvia over the last seven months. I cannot agree with Edvīna Šnore's statement that this is the answer to the mobilisation started by Russia, because the rumours about the military service introduced in Latvia have been wandering for several weeks, in fact months, but in Russia their campaign... He only did yesterday, last night. We will decide for ourselves what will be with the structure of the Latvian armed forces after the adoption of the law. In Latvia, the two-speed army will actually appear, there will be a hybrid system where soldiers of one military grade will have both a 10 year-old difference and a three-fold difference in salaries. And I think that this environment is ideal for so-called non-regulatory relations. Can we teach young people to use modern military equipment within three months? It is this period of training that is intended for the called contingent. If I am not mistaken, then it was precisely the complexity of NATO-compliant weapons that was one of the reasons for the transition to a professional service several years ago. But the Ministry of Defence, led by Artis Pabriks, is unfortunately unable to meet the demands of the National Armed Forces for their staff - either uncompetitive salaries are offered to soldiers, or social guarantees are not being fulfilled in the Ministry of Defence, or the level of patriotism in our society is not as high as the number of Members say from this tribunal. The Ministry of Defence came up with a simple solution - if you don't want to go by yourself, go from the bottom of the stick. After all, we are not Lithuania, where in the army 98 percent of vacancies are filled by young volunteers, but the remaining vacancies are filled with a computer program, regardless of students. About university students. The military restaurant did not see many objections of the Latvian Student Association. The number of military training places offered to university students is small - only a few hundred. It was in the totalitarian times of the USSR, for example, that I and other Members studied RPI - the Riga Polytechnic Institute - and went to the military department in Kipsala. Now students will just order to wear boots. Instead of the Minister of Defence, I would first do something else - not the formation of a mass army, but the protection of the people of Latvia from weapons of mass destruction. Our republic needs to rebuild the bunker network, in which all citizens could hide from the shock wave and from the radioactive precipitation - as has been done in Finland. Finland has already discovered its bunkers and is preparing for nuclear war. In a possible war between NATO and the Russian Federation, the use of nuclear weapons may not be the last but one of the first arguments. The times of the Latvian People's Front should be remembered when all the progressive minds fought for the demilitarisation of Latvia and hid young people from calling in military service. Now we're back in that situation. Please do not vote in favour of this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U366	Mr Janis Dombrava has applied for a speech about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U367	Dear Saeima, I will remind you that calling military service during the Soviet occupation was a violation of the Geneva Convention. The same as Russia is currently implementing in the occupied regions of Ukraine - one against one. Therefore, the People's Front also fought against it. This is about the service in the National Armed Forces of Latvia, where many different alternatives are offered, which will also be combined with studies at the university. One of these alternatives will be the Earthguard service, where, in fact, during the summer holidays, young people will be able to undergo military training for a period of five years, and all this will be fully connected to university studies, as is already the case for many young people who have volunteered in Earthguard. I call for support for the bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U368	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the National Armed Forces” to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law on the Prosecution of Military Persons” be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Military Disciplinary Liability” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Administrative Penalty Law on Violations in the Field of Administration, Public Order and Use of State Language” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Administrative Penalty on Violations in the Field of Administration, Public Order and Use of State Language” to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On State Pensions” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Military Service” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Mr. Clementyev, you will speak. I. Klementjev: “ Against” )... ‘to’. So "no" has applied to speak to Ivan Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U369	The National Defence Concept and National Armed Forces Development Plan for 2020-2032 set out that in 2027 the National Armed Forces' numerical composition should reach 20 400 soldiers. And, of course, those soldiers must be professional. A lot of work is also needed to prepare professionally. We, the Social Democratic Party of the Accord, are not against the fact that we will have such a... that we will be prepared for a comprehensive society and public administration... ready to ensure as fully as possible all functions of everyday life also in the context of war, while at the same time being able to take care of their safety and provide support in defence efforts. We agree with this. To achieve this, we need to work purposefully today, we also need to increase physical fitness for all – not only for athletes, but also for Latvian citizens, especially for young people, those who will be those potential soldiers from the age of 14. I have referred to this many times. We need to pay more attention to what is happening in sports lessons at schools, by children on holiday and what training camps are organised for children to spend their days on... vacation or summer time purposefully to raise your physical development. And, of course, we need extra funds for these guys and boys, and the girls, too, when they're 18, when they're ready... Now, by statistics... Well, according to one thing... I am sure that 33 to 43 percent of Latvia does nothing with sport, does nothing! Others - many percent - do maybe once twice a week, which actually does not give anything, because we need to work four times a week with something at least one hour, then there are some results. According to the other data - even when accepting cadets to the State Police College, we see that there 40-44 percent of people have been rejected immediately because they can't... does not meet medical haracterics. And then there is a physical fitness exam, where a certain percentage falls away from those who have joined the State Police College. These are the actual figures, and these are the indicators for people who know that they want to join the State Police College and want to spend the next 10 or 20 years as a police officer, and who should be as a benchmark - look very strong and be convincing. So that the Social Democratic Party is in favour of everything I have said, but cannot support this hasty package of draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U370	Jūlija Stepanenko, Member, has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U371	Colleagues, I am convinced that those who support this draft law have not really imagined the situation we are now facing - the departure of young people from Latvia and the support of young people. Those who have made this bill, those who will support it today and those who also want to have the support of the majority have not thought about the fact that there are really mothers who have brought up their sons... Year of birth: 2004; year of birth: This has been very recent, and these children are not state property. And these kids can't just take off a passport or issue a passport for the time they pass their obligations, because that's what you think... What do you think of young people? I am sure that those who support this draft law do not have young people at home who ask: ‘ Can I really not go to school? Do I have to serve now? for incomprehensible purposes?’ Do you really think that by interviewing young people and receiving mixed answers, you will be happy to move this draft law forward? ( Internouncing call.) Colleagues, we do not support this draft law, but you will certainly support it, because you do not have to answer what their future will be for young people. For you these young people are simply state property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U372	Mrs Stepanenko, I would remind you that you have applied to speak on the referral of the draft law to the commission. ( Internouncing call.) Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law "Amendments to the Military Service Law" to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption, making it a commission responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Patients’ Rights” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Support Act”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U373	Good afternoon, colleagues! Thus, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Support Law” at second reading. We have received six proposals. 1. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare, Zalīte-Gross. The deadline for access to long-term social care and social rehabilitation services is clarified. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U374	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U375	2. - Member Znotiņš's proposal. Special rules for the application of personal income tax shall be established, providing that “a natural person who obtains income from the lease of real estate to a Ukrainian civilian and has not registered in the State Revenue Service as an economic operator in accordance with the 12th paragraph of Article 11 of the Law “On Personal Income Tax” shall be exempt from the obligation to pay personal income tax from the income received”. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U376	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U377	Dear colleagues, Let me tell you the situation and try to give you a few examples to understand why such additional regulation is necessary. A part of the Ukrainian civilian population was welcomed by Latvian households by renting a dwelling or part of it belonging to Ukrainians. Renting contracts are possible in two ways. One - the municipality has concluded an agreement on the accommodation of Ukrainian civilians in private households. And this individual can receive up to 300 euros per month for the living room, and it is available in principle for 120 days, with some exceptions. The second possibility is that a private person rents his apartment to a Ukrainian civilian, in which case (after a proposal) a discount would be due. Discount - these 10 percent, which we normally pay as personal income tax when renting property. So why... What is the reality, and why? As you know, often those Ukrainian civilians who have arrived are mothers, for example, with two children, and consequently, starting to work, they're usually income around 600-700 euros. This is a common case. Accordingly, in order to pay rent in Riga, in particular, to do so by concluding a contract for a shorter period without knowing when they will be able to return to Ukraine... This causes various problems and, of course, also the level of income... And the rent level is, let's say, inexpensive. In reality, it is also not logical for the renter to rent... If he has someone who is willing to pay more, then it is not logical to rent a Ukrainian civilian, say, for a lower amount or for a shorter term. This tabled proposal in principle motivates private individuals to rent apartments for Ukrainian civilians. And here, too, we need to point out the letters from NGOs that we have received. I think you've got it, too. They point out that this is a real problem. Even though six months have passed since the first refugees arrived, there are problems with access to housing, such as access to housing, especially in Riga, which these people can afford to rent. This proposed support works on a temporary basis - until the end of 2022 (i.e. two more months, a little more than two and a half months) - and would provide an opportunity and additional motivation for private owners to provide Ukrainian civilians with rental real estate. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U378	The name to the Member is Att Zakaitistov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U379	I will call for the draft law not to be supported. The issue of Ukrainian refugees is always emotional, but in this case we will follow it for money. The money comes to the renter, the renter takes the money from his Ukrainian family with two children. The renter protects himself by means of a rent agreement and does not pay taxes. If you rent a German, you pay taxes, you rent a Tajik, you pay taxes, you rent a Ukrainian, you don't pay taxes. And that's all the grace that comes from thinking about the Ukrainian family with two children... is used to benefit from who of its Ukrainian families with two children takes their money. I think it would be more sensible if we rejected it, and then everyone would have the same right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U380	Debate... Not yet closed. The name to Member Rainis Znotiņš for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U381	The previous speaker said that there are different situations. Then we rent out to Tajik or someone else, and in this case we put Ukrainian civilians in a different position or perhaps give them the opportunity to rent this property for a lower amount. Yes, that is precisely because, colleagues in Tajikistan, there is no war at the moment, but there are many civilians out of Ukraine and, yes, we want to support them more than the other immigrants who are coming to Latvia at the moment and are here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U382	The name to the Member Reject Zakaistov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U383	Here we do not support Ukrainian refugees. Here we support those people who take money from those Ukrainian refugees.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U384	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U385	The majority of the Commission decided to support proposal 2.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U386	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Member Znotiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -62, for -1, for -15. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U387	3. - Mr Zakatistova's proposal. Plans changes in the regulation of donations and will allow “Riga Transport” to donate 10 new buses to Ukraine this year, subject to the regulation of donations. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U388	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U389	4. - the proposal of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, which was made when listening to the Bank of Latvia. The proposal is supported. The proposal provides for the right of the Bank of Latvia: “The Bank of Latvia, based on the decision of the Council of the Bank of Latvia, has the right to donate (donor) part of the income from the sale of the euro collector coins and commemorative euro coins issued by the Bank of Latvia... in general support to Ukrainian society.” The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U390	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U391	5. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. This is a proposal of a terminology nature. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U392	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U393	And six. - A proposal from the Ministry of Health. It is expected that Ukrainian civilians will be able to continue receiving compensation for the purchase of medicines or medical devices after six months... This was already provided for in another well-sponsored draft law, which the Commission decided to include in this draft law. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U394	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U395	I call on the Saeima to support the draft law on "Amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Support Law" at second, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U396	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on "Amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Support Law" in the second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Finally, the amendments tabled to the Bureau's agenda. Members Kaspars Ģirgens, Ēriks Pucens, Karina Sprūde, Ramona Petraviča, Lubova Švecova and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” (No. 1647/Lp13). ‘ For” applied to speak Member Kaspars Ģirgens.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U397	Colleagues! Today, we have spoken very passionately about the language, but we all understand very well that this energy crisis will leave a deep impression on our business. On Monday, the Latvian Restaurant Society, the Association of Latvian Hotels and Restaurants, the Association of Latvian Travel Agents and Operators, as well as the Latvian Congress Office invited all political forces to discuss value added tax for catering. One of the most important issues is the question of support mechanisms for electricity. And this was a question that the coalition forces were unable to answer, that is, in simple words: let's think, let's see and see. Such an answer, I think no businessman would be satisfied because they have to pay bills now, especially for August... For example, in May the cost of electricity had to be 1500 euros, whereas now... August already had 9,000 euros to pay. And how will you respond to business today? What support mechanism would now, now, already in September, be to help overcome this crisis? It is no secret that bankruptcy waves are approaching and competitors, especially from Lithuania, are buying Latvian companies. It is like a wave - without granting discounts, without granting support mechanisms, Latvian entrepreneurs become less competitive and disappear. We can already see that cafes, restaurants, sell their stuff because they can't get these bills any more. The bills have doubled, the bills have four times, but the support mechanisms are not yet being followed. It is necessary to help now and now. And one of the solutions... Today, too, we have mentioned the money that has been borrowed, that this is not the best option. One of the best options is to reduce value added tax. Eating companies have been calling for this for several years. We can see that the community pandemic has undermined companies, halving the number of companies. Food companies pay more than EUR 200 million per year. This was roughly the case with the aid received in the co-crisis but not with the support mechanisms to help become more competitive. I would like to see the businessmen who would get, go to the streets and demand that they be allowed to work. Many of them are thinking now of how to draw ends, but we also need to think about the future. I believe that the catering companies, hotels and tourism in this Saeima were not provided with the support mechanism that was necessary. I very much hope that 14. There will be heard ears in the family. We see that coalition parties, which were able to sign a memorandum in the past, are currently avoiding and putting their eyes down because they are unable to help these companies in any way. Unfortunately, this is a terrible truth, and we are expected to have a very bad time when a very large wave of bankruptcy will be expected. Therefore, even if you do not support it today, I nevertheless call for an assessment of this possibility of reducing value added tax. On television today, too, the political forces said: 'We are 'for' by the coalition, but we are not.' It is now clear to the business community - let us support or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U398	Do Members object to the inclusion of a draft law on the agenda of the sitting? ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Please call us! To be put to the vote on the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax (No. 1647/Lp13) on the agenda of the sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 32, it's against - 50, it's not. Draft law shall not be included on the agenda of the sitting. Members Ēriks Pucens, Kaspars Ģirgens, Karina Sprūde, Ramona Petraviča, Lubova Švecova and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the law on extraordinary increases in energy prices”. ‘ Ēriks Pucens, a Member, has applied for this.”
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U399	Hello, dear colleagues! I can congratulate you - we are in the first place in Europe: we have the most expensive electricity in Europe! But, as I can see, the coalition doesn't even worry about it. Perhaps the next government will have to take these concerns on board and address this issue? Currently, the population is unaware of how much one kilowatt will be paid next week, the next week, in a month. ( Milestones.) And if we cannot find a solution, more and more people will not be able to pay for electricity. I therefore call on my fellow Members, in the Commission, to work on freezing these energy prices, not just to reject them... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U400	Are Members against (Interface: Vote!) ) draft Is that so? Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of including the draft law “Amendments to the law on exceptional increases in energy prices” on the agenda of the sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft law shall not be included on the agenda of the sitting. Members Ralph Nemiro, Ramona Petraviča, Maris Možvillo, Kaspars Girgens, Eriks Pucens and others are asking to include on the agenda the draft decision on the application of contractual penalties to citizens for late payment of energy resources. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Ralph Nemiro.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U401	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! This draft decision is a call to the Cabinet of Ministers to draft regulatory acts and take other necessary actions so that energy companies that are Latvian state or municipal companies do not apply contractual penalties to citizens during this heating season. I would like to inform you, for example, that in Jelgava the price of the megawatt-hour is EUR 85 ( plus VAT), in Dobele - EUR 96, in Ozolnieki - 150, in Jēkabpils - 100, in Izcuel and Marupe - EUR 320... approximately 200, in Rezekne - EUR 200 per megawatt-hour. Colleagues, this draft decision is not fiscally influential, because the contractual penalty can be applied, but it can also not be applied. But at the moment the energy companies... Either, for example, those for whom the shareholder, the shareholder, is the State... may give rise to the task of not imposing contractual penalties on citizens in the already very difficult situation with regard to the rise in energy prices. That is why this proposal is now in the right place. This is a call to the Cabinet of Ministers to take such action, and we give such a delegation to deal with this issue. The heating season is, in fact, only now starting, and citizens will feel more and more these bills. It is all clear that the cost of electricity and heating will rise for citizens and, of course, we need to act quickly enough. If the government is working on various support mechanisms - and, as we know, the parliamentary commissions will also talk about this - then, of course, at some point we will expect one solution or another to help citizens in the context of energy prices. However, this does not prevent individual energy companies providing both electricity and heat from imposing contractual penalties on citizens. ( The ring of noise.) Colleagues, I believe that this is not a moment for us to be able to... you are in such a situation. In my opinion, it is time to give energy companies the task of acting in good faith and not imposing contractual penalties on our citizens if they cannot pay these bills. It is clear that the level of inflation is rather high, which reduces citizens' access to and payment of first-pricing goods - food and others -. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call on you now to take active action, to take such a decision - to call on the Cabinet of Ministers to lay down appropriate rules and to instruct these capital companies not to impose contractual penalties on citizens if citizens are unable to pay for electricity and heating in time. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U402	Do Members object to the inclusion of the draft decision on the agenda of the sitting? ( Interface: “Let’s vote! ” ) Please call us! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft decision on the application of contractual penalties to citizens for late payment of energy resources on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft decision shall be placed on the agenda of the sitting. Dear colleagues, The draft decision is an own-initiative proposal and should therefore be placed on the following agenda: reports by the Bureau on its own-initiative proposals submitted. Members Ralfs Nemiro, Ramona Petravičs, Maris Možvillo, Kaspars Ģirgens, Ēriks Pucens, Ainārs Vilciņš, Viktors Valainis, Uldis Augulis, Jānis Dūklavs and Edgars Tavars have submitted their own proposal – draft decision on the application of contractual penalties to citizens for delayed energy payments. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? ( Internouncing call.) We will therefore decide on the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of the next sitting. Members have not applied for a speech. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft decision on the application of contractual penalties to citizens for late payment of energy on the agenda of the 29 September sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 35, no, 47, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft decision shall not be placed on the agenda for the next sitting. Are there any proposals for referrals to one of the commissions? Please turn on the microphone for Ralph Nemiro.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U403	I call for a budget and financial (tax) commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U404	Please hand over to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. There are no other proposals. So there is a proposal to refer the draft decision to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Please call me! We will vote for the transfer to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission of the draft decision on the application of contractual penalties to citizens for late payment of energy. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ( Internouncing call.) Decision adopted. This own-initiative proposal has been referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda of the sitting has been examined. On today's plenary session to answer Members' questions. Member Ramonas Petravičs, Erika Pucena, Ieva Krapāne, Kaspars Ģirgens and Māra Možvillo Minister of the Interior “On the use of resources (material and labour) to ensure the security of Riga Praida event in 2022”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister shall inform him that he is unable to appear and give an oral answer. Member Jūlija Stepanenko, Alda Gobzema, Karina Sprūde, Lubova Švekova and Ainars Vilciņš Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development “On Disconnection of Skulte and Cleans villages from Power Supply”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister shall inform him that he is unable to appear and give an oral answer. Member Arthur Rubika, Valeria Agešina, Jānis Tutina, Vitalis Orlovs and Jānis Krišāns question to the Minister for Economics about Latvia’s “Emergency Action Plan”. The written replies received are not satisfactory, but the oral Members do not wish to ask questions. The question to the Minister of Economics “On Compliance of the Implementation Procedure of the LNG terminal offered by the Government with the interests of Latvian society” was discussed by Member Arthur Rubika, Ivana Klementyeva, Vladimira Nikonova, Ivana Ribakova and Nikolaja Kabanov. The written responses received are not satisfactory, but Members do not want to ask further questions. For the member Ramonas Petravičas, Māra Možvillo, Kaspars Ģirgens, Ralfa Nemiro and Ainārs Vilciņš, Minister of Health “On number of Covid-19 vaccines reserved, purchased and delivered and their use”. No written reply was received. The Minister shall inform him that he is unable to appear and give an oral answer. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda of the sitting has been examined. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name For Inese Voika to read the registration results.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U405	Colleagues! Not registered: Boriss Cilevičs, Gundars Dauge, Jānis Dūklavs, Ilmārs Dūritis, Artuss Kaimiņš, Ieva Krapāne, Armands Krauze, Ainars Latkovskis, Maris Možvillo, Karina Sprūde, Jānis Urbanovičs and Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-22-PT13-2408-U406	Thank you. I closed my session on September 22nd.
