ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2387-U1	Dear colleagues, We will begin to examine the agenda of the sitting of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 26 May 2022. First of all, the amendments tabled to the Bureau's agenda. The budget and financial (tax) commission is asking to include in the agenda of the sitting the draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to reallocation of appropriations laid down in the Law “On the State Budget 2022”. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Juris Pūce, Aigars Bikše, Dace Rukšāne-Ščipčinska, Mārtiņš Bondars and Inese Voika are asking to include in the agenda the draft decision “On Revocation of the Saeima Member Juris Pūce from the Commission of European Affairs”. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Juris Pūce, Aigars Bikše, Dace Rukšāne-Ščipčinska, Mārtiņš Bondars and Inese Voika ask that the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Jurs Pūce to the Commission for Sustainable Development be put on the agenda. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Marija Golubeva, Aigars Bikše, Dace Rukšāne-Ščipčinska, Mārtiņš Bondars, Inese Voika and others are asking to include on the agenda the draft decision “On the election of the Saeima Member Marija Golubeva to the European Affairs Commission”. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Marija Golubeva, Aigars Bikše, Dace Rukšāne-Ščipčinska, Mārtiņš Bondars, Inese Voika and others are asking to include on the agenda the draft decision “On the election of the Saeima Member Marija Golubeva to the Legal Commission”. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Please call us! We will vote for the draft decision on the election of Ms Marija Golubeva, Member of the Saeima, to be on the agenda of the sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft decision shall be included in the agenda of the sitting. National associations “All for Latvia!” - "Fatherland and Freedom/LNNK" is asked to exclude paragraph 17 of the draft law on Civil Union from the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Draft legislation shall be excluded from the agenda of the sitting. Members Karina Sprūde, Ēriks Pucens, Ieva Krapāne, Kaspars Ģirgens and Ramona Petraviča are asking to include in the agenda the draft decision on state-paid catering for learners. ‘ Karina Sprūde, Member, has applied to speak about”
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2387-U2	Dear colleagues, Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Clearly, we made very important decisions today. We appointed two ministers. We supported the Ukrainian civilians. But I would like to remind you very modestly today that we have not solved one thing that will be very important on 1 September. It's a weekend at school. In order to save money in the state budget, the coalition decided in 2020 to save on children by stating that for the smaller classes of the holiday class 1-4, the state will in future finance only part; at least half will have to be financed by local governments. For other classes holiday - it is a municipal initiative. This has undoubtedly led to inequality, because one municipality can afford to spend the weekend also for high school students, but the other unfortunately cannot. For example, the resort town Jurmala can afford to feed all children, while in Babīte parish holiday is available only for Class 1-4. In the other classes, the parents pay for lunch. But is the child more hungry in Jurmala than the child in Babite? And is the nine-year-old more hungry than the fourteen-year-old? As a result of the rapid rise in prices, both energy and food prices, school catering is no longer able to get into the student’s lunch funding per student. This is why municipalities have already asked for an increase in national targeted grants to schools. What will happen if we do not react now? Yes, the law states that municipalities will still have to provide holiday for the smaller classes, compensate for the rise in prices, but... Older children will be taken away, because municipalities will not be able to carry all the price rises on their shoulders. We're gonna have to take off the weekend for senior class students. People's getting their beaks up now. What happens if, from 1 September, parents pay more for their school lunch? People will not afford it, children will not even have one warm meal a day. Warm and affordable meals at school are essential for both health and development. In addition, the free meals the child receives at an educational establishment also serve as social support for families. Children's rights must be guaranteed to every child - without exception and regardless of the number of children in the family. This is in the common interest of the State. The country must take care of all children - children who grow up in wealthy families as well as children in socially vulnerable families. The country must take care of children in Jurmala and Babite, Cesis, Talsi, Rezekne... This draft decision is that the state must take responsibility so that children can learn - to think about mathematics and literature, not about their empty stomachs. This draft decision is about hearing teachers’ voices during school hours, not children’s deaf stomach. This draft decision concerns the fact that when we invest money in school meals and buy products from the country, we must, as a matter of priority, buy them from local producers so that this investment remains in our own country. I call on you not to regret the money for your children, because while Members of the Saeima may have time and money to cook their beards in the morning with milk, butter, maybe some smell or jam, while the rest of the family is starting to work from five o'clock in the morning, working in two or three jobs... And now they're gonna have to think about some extra work... This is a very important issue. I know now... It's summer, but all the meetings... Our political party meets people, with experts, we have negotiations... The meeting begins with negotiations about the economy, about agriculture, but ends with stories about children fainting... We cannot say that children need to be provided with post-school groups so that they are busy in sports so that they go to camps. And the whole human conversation ends... Some more camps if children can't even... has no power even run to the square and play football! They're not funny when I'm called by a family doctor and they say you can don't just donate some new things, or something that's garnished, used, but also socks with holes... because children after school come to a family doctor for a drink of sugar and some biscuits to get. That is the fact. They call me and tell me they don't give me anything that's possible...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2387-U3	Thank you. ‘ Aldis Gobzems, the Member against’, has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2387-U4	There is no doubt at all about this: this is not a decision on stones, on lifeless things, this is a decision on living people, on children. I would like to remind you: if history does not lie - and I think it does not lie - one of such great, historical politicians (his name is Mannerheims) introduced a free lunch in Finland for children. He was a great man. This was the beginning of the road leading to Finland now having the best education system in the world. ( Internouncing call.) Feeding children in schools free of charge, from kindergarten to graduation in the last 12th class, is what determines the future of the country. And the vote on it is much more important than the vote on stones. Free education and free catering with free education – these are crucial things; it depends on whether Latvia will exist or if Latvia will be. Why? Because it is not just a matter of social assistance. First of all, it is the question of teaching children health. It's about giving children the brain what they need, because this food, I'm sorry, doesn't have to be at the pigs (as it is in some places), but at the restaurant. And for public money, for taxpayers' money. Education begins with the thorough feeding of children with the best - with fresh fish, with fresh vegetables. And you can laugh and yell a little, but it's crucial for children's education. It has a direct and clear link with health and physical development. It has a direct relationship with Latvian existence in the future, because the fact that in Latvia do not care about children and do not love children is why children are not born in Latvia. This question, even though it's inserted... At the very end of the sitting... This issue, on which we will not discuss, on which the coalition will immediately vote 'no' ( Dep. (D. Schmit’s intermediate call.) , is much more important than monuments, Didji Smit. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. (D. Schmit’s intermediate call.) And I call on everyone to vote against the future of Latvia, that is, against children, because children are the future of Latvia. Not the stones, not the flags, but the children are the future of Latvia. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstin’s intermediate call sign.) And for the children of the holiday... from the kindergarten, from the first class... from the first steps in the kindergarten to the graduation in high school (Interface: “Aldis is against catering in schools!” )... is about (Interface: “Gobzem is against the children!” )... You can, of course, try to stop me, but the vote will show - the vote will show! - that it is you who, the UKP, will vote against the children. You will vote against the children, not me. ( The internouncing; dep.) S. Riekstins: “You are in Spain. What are you worried about? You're in Spain, what are you talking about here now? Go sit down! Turn around to listen.” ) If you turn around to listen, Riekstin, put the Member's mandate down and stick!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2387-U5	So one Member has spoken 'for', one for 'no'. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft decision on state-paid catering for learners on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 38, against - 48, abstaining. The draft decision shall not be placed on the agenda of the sitting. Members Jānis Vitenbergs, Raivis Dzintars, Ilze Indriksone, Jānis Dombrava, Jānis Iesalnieks and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft decision “On election of the Saeima Member Jānis Vitenbergs at the Saeima Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy”. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? ( Interface: “No. ” ) There are no objections. The agenda has been amended. Members Jānis Vitenbergs, Raivis Dzintars, Ilze Indriksone, Jānis Dombrava and Jānis Iesalnieks are asking to include in the agenda the draft decision “On election of the Saeima Member Jānis Vitenbergs to the Saeima Public Expenditure and Audit Commission”. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. Members Jūlija Stepanenko, Karina Sprūde, Lubova Švecova, Maris Možvillo, Ramona Petravičs and Aldis Gobzems ask for 27th part of the agenda – draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals in the draft law “Law on Civil Union” (No. 1380/Lp13) for the third reading until 30 October 2022” - review before paragraph 17 of the draft law “Law on Civil Union”. Whether or not Members have objections to such an agenda (Minimum.) ... Is that so? Yes, this does not prevent this matter from being included, from changing the agenda items... Yes, this draft law was excluded from the agenda of the sitting, but this does not prevent us from deciding on this proposal. ‘ Jūlija Stepanenko, Member, has applied to speak about”
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2387-U6	Colleagues! We called for this item on the agenda, which extended the deadline for tabling proposals to this scandalous - now scandalous, Mr Butan! - for the bill... To make this bill to the next Saeima. And then just... perhaps honest Members could decide whether this draft law is necessary or not. Without technical breaks, without yelling to Mr. Geodans and without Mr. Bhutan's participation in the Legal Commission. ( Insight: “I can promise Mr. Geidan that he will not shout. ” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2387-U7	Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Members wish to vote. Please call me! We shall vote on item 27 of the agenda - Draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals - Law on Civil Union (No. 1380/Lp13) for the third reading until 30 October 2022.’ What's happening to us now... 17. ... to be examined under item 16 of the agenda! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 26, for - 40, for - 1. No amendment to the agenda shall be approved, the agenda of the sitting shall not be amended. We begin to examine the agenda of the amended sitting. On the agenda - reports from the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Bureau proposes to refer the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media” to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? Mr. Cilevič, will you speak against? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. B. Cilevičs: “ Against”. ) Boris Cilevičs has applied to speak against.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2387-U8	Dear colleagues, It is a bad practice that the amendments to the law are submitted by commissions other than those normally dealing with the laws in question. We see that the quality of the draft law suffers significantly from it. First. In fact, we already have responsibilities under the law for the installation and use of illegal equipment for commercial purposes; recently we have also responsibilities for the user. It is not clear from the wording of the draft law what the added value of the draft law is. Secondly. This draft law creates a confusion with definitions, in particular in the context of the Copyright Act. Article 1(12) of the Copyright Act contains the definition of ‘publication’, point 14 — the definition of ‘publication’, but in that draft law, the term ‘publication’ is, in fact, used in the sense of the Copyright Act. And that's actually more... The norm of liability for breach of the restriction on the notification of the programme is also proposed for cases where the programme is announced to the public, for example at a place of public entertainment or during a public event, and is addressed to several persons outside the usual family circle. But the Copyright Act provides for a different term for such an activity – “public performance”. This is paragraph 15 of Section 1 of the Copyright Act. This creates contradictions. I do not entreat those officials who will have to apply these rules. Thirdly. Article 2 of the draft law... it is very short, but forbids to engage in a business that provides access to a programme that is not included in the list of programmes to be re-broadcasted in Latvia. And that's what it's meant to be looking at satellite-free programmes. But it has nothing to do with business! If a person perceives a program straight from the satellite, there's no businessman in the middle. Fourth. This is all the more important: the draft law actually mixes piracy, i.e. the violation of economic nature, with the proliferation of propaganda content prohibited. But, colleagues, hateful propaganda cannot be effectively combated on the basis of copyright protection, because in this case, in the case of propaganda, it is, to say that the rightholder has an interest not to earn but to distribute his content as much as possible without any restrictions. Thus, these are two completely different situations and no restrictions are possible. Five. This is even worse: it seems that the authors of the bill are still living in the past century and they have a weak picture of modern content distribution technologies. The Tricolor boxes that... it's mentioned in the annotation... Yes, it is still used sometimes, but prohibited content is mostly distributed via the Internet or satellite. For example, more than 20 Russian propaganda channels are currently broadcasted from large-capacity satellites to the entire territory of the European Union in an uncoded manner, and they are freely, free, free of charge, perceived - even without a satellite receiver directly on the television. It is not possible to stop this dissemination by administrative means. Colleagues, I am very much in favour of combating piracy, hate speech, propaganda and false news, this is a legitimate aim, and restrictions are justified and necessary, but they must be effective, consistent with the rules of other laws and relevant modern technologies. Unfortunately, the proposed amendments do not meet these criteria. And that is why I cannot support this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2387-U9	Andrey Judin has applied for a speech about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2387-U10	Colleagues, I call for support for this draft law. In my opinion, one argument that needs to be followed is very important. We have been thinking for a long time about what to do if people, let us say, do business and allow other people to watch illegal content (i.e. satellites, Tricolor boxes), and now this draft law offers a solution. And I think the solution can be very effective. Although Mr. Cilevičs pointed out that the person who looks... then not in business... Yes, it is true, and here the question is not about this particular person. The issue is for those who offer such services, who are willing to offer equipment, software at an appropriate price. And if we adopt appropriate amendments, then the law will include a ban on doing so. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Article 208 of the Criminal Law provides for responsibility for prohibited business. We have been talking for a long time about how to act so that responsibility is not disproportionately broad. And this solution, in my opinion, allows us to act selectively in cases where we cannot ignore the fact that people are carrying out harmful activities. Please support the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2387-U11	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Legal Commission the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media”, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 64, no, 17, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes to refer the draft law submitted by the Cabinet to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible for the management of the economic consequences of the sanctions and countermeasures imposed against Ukraine. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes the Member Andrejs Klementyeva, Janis Krišāns, Vitaly Orlova, Valija Agešina and Arthur Rubika’s draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Pensions” (No. 1478/Lp13) to the Commission of Social and Labour Cases, establishing that it is the committee responsible. ‘ On” applied to speak Member Jānis Krišāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2387-U12	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Dear colleagues, Members of the political group, who are watching the current situation where inflation is rising rapidly, prices are rising for food, medicines, energy, and the despair of the most vulnerable people about the cost of life, understand that there is an urgent, urgent need for state support. I think that we should not be late with this. It is only a pity that the ruling coalition and the Cabinet of Ministers have put it somewhere further in the drawer, because they have to share their ministerial posts there, even though we have more important things in the country. The political group SASKĀJA has developed proposals to improve pension indexation by submitting a draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Pensions”. The draft law submitted provides for pension indexation to take place on 1 September and 1 April if the average level of consumer prices between 1 August of the previous year and 31 January of the current year is equal to or greater than five per cent. Go on. We propose that, starting in 2022, the indexation of pensions, if inflation exceeds five per cent per year, be subject to an inflation rate for persons with a pension size of less than EUR 500 who are most at risk of poverty as a result of rapidly rising inflation. Currently, in our country, the average pension size for pensioners is just over 400 euros and for disabled people - 236 euros. This is the average amount of a disabled person's pension in the country. We believe that, in the current context of high inflation, not only the low-pension beneficiaries should be supported, but also... In the index formula of 2022, the pension is indexed to 100 per cent for pensioners with a period of employment of over 45 years, the pensioner with a period of employment of between 40 and 45 years - 90 per cent, the other pensioners - part of the pension... up to EUR 500... of the amount I don't know what's going to happen in the autumn, because pensions are such that they're hardly going to be able to pay out the communals... You know how many pensioners can buy food today and how healthy food we are talking about? And the other thing is that pensioners, seniors, people who are of a respected age also have various illnesses. Yesterday I had a conversation with the medical staff in this regard. Pensioners can no longer buy medicines. They cannot understand what to do: to use pension money for food or to make payments for public utility services in a conscious manner. The pensioner comes to the doctor, the medicine doesn't buy, the second time comes, the third time... and then he gets to the hospital. He can't buy drugs. And then all this costs the country much more. And so, honourable Members and honourable Members, please let us not postpone the question of pensioners for a long time! I understand, the summer vacation is about to start... And what? What are we gonna do in the autumn? Please support me. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2387-U13	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Please call us! Vote on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Pensions” (No. 1478/Lp13) transfer to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, establishing that it is the committee responsible! ( Milestones.) Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 34, against - 45, refrains - not. The draft law has not been referred to the Commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Pensions” presented by Member Viktors Valaiņa, Ulda Augulis, Jānis Dūklavs, Janina Jalinska and Armands Krauze (No. 1479/Lp13) to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2387-U14	Dear colleagues, The previous speaker has already told me that I think it is quite, quite detailed about the situation of seniors. I can only join every one of his names. However... This proposal is in a way devoted to the party association Development/About! and their government members' public rhetoric, Development/About! for the rhetoric of politicians, when pensions should be indexed. This week, the government adopted a decision on faster pension indexation - from 1 October to 1 September... That's right. In our view, it could have been on July 1. More recently, the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, a member of the government, has publicly stated that it should, in his view, take place on 1 July. Other government politicians have also expressed that this should take place as early as 1 July. No matter how great a challenge it would be technically to do it on 1 July... we offer a really practical case - the indexation of pensions by August 1. Colleagues! I call on you to support this draft law and indeed to start doing so at last and not just talk in public space about the date on which pensions should be indexed. The government has offered September 1, but Development/About! politicians believe that this should be on 1 July. In the government debate, we heard nothing from the fact that it should be faster, and the draft law is now being drawn to the Saeima on 1 September. Colleagues! I call for support because it makes it clear that - on August 1. Colleagues, we need to record pensions faster. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2387-U15	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Please call us! Vote on the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Pensions” (No. 1479/Lp13) transfer to the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 32, against - 48, refraining from - 1. The draft law has not been referred to the Commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Personal Documents” submitted by Member Viktors Valaiņa, Ulda Augulis, Jānis Dūklavs, Janina Jalinska and Armands Krauze be referred to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2387-U16	Dear colleagues, This proposal has no budgetary implications. I call on you to weigh it very seriously. We see and everyone, I think, sees the tension that has arisen in the capital with regard to identity documents. To get them, we have to stand in a series of months. We offer to those who are 15 years of age or older (at the moment they are required to have their identity document, ID card, receive it), at least to postpone this deadline for another year in order not to create additional tensions. For us, the news was that 18 thousand Latvians would not be able to participate in the Saeima elections. Much has been said about the need to increase activity on the elections, but unfortunately we do not see any real action. In our view, the work of the Authority for Citizenship and Migration should be delayed - at least in the way we offer it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2387-U17	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( The utterances: ‘ Vote! ’) “Yes!” ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Documents of Persons” to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 37, for - 45, for - 5. The draft law has not been referred to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes to hand over the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Law on Facilitated Procedure for the Construction of Wind Power Plants for Energy Security and Independence” to the National Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Environmental Impact Assessment” be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Pollution” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Road Traffic Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Next, on the granting of leave. For granting unpaid leave to a Member, Mr Raivis Dzintars, from 13 June to 17 June this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Raivy Dzintar, requesting him to be granted unpaid leave from 13 June to 17 June. We must vote in favour of granting leave. Please call me! We will be voting for the granting of unpaid leave to Member Raivis Dzintars from 13 June to 17 June this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The leave has been granted. For unpaid leave granted to Mr Janis Dombrava on 19 May this year. The Bureau of the Saeima has received an application from the Member Jānis Dombrava requesting him to be granted unpaid leave on 19 May this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. Hereinafter referred to as ‘the election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust’. Draft decision on the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Juris Pūce from the Commission of European Affairs. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Juris Pūce from the Commission of European Affairs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Jurs Pūce to the Commission for Sustainable Development. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Juris Pūce to the Commission for Sustainable Development! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member, Maria Golubeva, to the European Commission for European Affairs. Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft decision on the election of Ms Marija Golubeva, Member of the Saeima, to the European Commission for European Affairs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of Ms Marija Golubeva, Member of the Saeima, to the Legal Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Ms Marija Golubeva, Member of the Saeima, to the Legal Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Draft decision “On election of the Saeima Member Jānis Vitenbergs to the Saeima Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy”. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Saeima member Jānis Vitenbergs to the Saeima Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Draft decision “On the election of the Saeima Member Jānis Vitenbergs to the Saeima Public Expenditure and Audit Commission”. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Saeima member Jānis Vitenbergs to the Saeima Public Expenditure and Audit Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, Members Juris Pūce, Krišjānis Feldmans, Raivis Dzintars, Atis Zakaistovs and Kārlis Šadurskis are asking to announce a break to the Saeima sitting until June 2. Please call me! Let us vote for a break to the Saeima sitting before 2 June of this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Honourable Members! I must inform you, in connection with the sitting scheduled for today, of the answers to Members' questions. On behalf of Karina Sprūde, Julia Stepanenko, Alda Gobzem, Ramona Petraviča and Māra Možvillo, Minister for Health “For the Amount of Donation of Covid-19 Vaccines purchased”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informed that because of the illness it is impossible to arrive and give an oral answer. As a result, replies to Members' questions will not be given today. New questions have been put to Members. Members Rubiks, Tutins, Ribakovs, Kucins and Lochmele presented the question “On the readiness of the Latvian Government to help Latvian society to overcome the expected global food crisis”. We hand it over to the Prime Minister for a reply. Members Rubiks, Tutins, Ribakovs, Kucins and Lochmele presented the question “On the readiness of the Latvian Government to help Latvian society and the economy in a meaningful way to overcome the energy crisis”. We hand it over to the Prime Minister for a reply. Members Rubiks, Agešins, Tutins, Kucins and Clementjevs presented the question “On the use of Latvian biomass in energy”. We hand it over to the Prime Minister for a reply. Members Rubiks, Agešins, Tutins, Kucins and Clementjevs put forward the question “On heating energy consumption and energy efficiency measures for buildings”. We hand it over to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ilze Indrickson, for a reply. And Members Lochmele, Tutin, Cabanov, Niconov and Dolgopolov asked: “On the continuation of the Latvian energy independence course by the Minister of Economics Jānis Witenbergs”. We hand it over to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ilze Indrickson, for a reply. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name Inese Voika to report the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2387-U18	Colleagues! Not registered: Uldis Augulis, Iveta Benhena–Beeken, Aldis Blumbergs, Ilze Indriksone, Janīna Jalinska, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Armands Krauze, Romanas Naudiņš, Didzis Šmits. ... Šmits is, Edmunds Teirumnieks, Jānis Urbanovičs and Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2387-U19	Thank you. Interruption until 9 a.m. on 2 June this year. ( Interruption)
