ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U1	Dear colleagues, We will begin to review the agenda of the second remote emergency session of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 10 February 2022. On the agenda - reports from the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Proliferation Management” presented by Member Edgars Tatars, Ulda Augulis, Viktors Valaiņa, Raimonds Bergmanis and Armands Krauze (No. 1331/Lp13) transferred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the Commission responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Edgars Tavars.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U2	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, With the spread of Covid-19 virus, the new variant of omicron, which now, according to experts estimates, accounts for up to 95 percent of the total number of infected, the decision to withdraw certificates is logical. The absence of a square code can no longer be the main reason for various restrictions and services. Sickness has now become the main motivation for obtaining a certificate. It is no secret that many employers continue to employ people who do not hold this interoperable certificate. And that's understandable because there's a lack of hands. We are also well aware that very many people cannot work at the moment and cannot fully obtain services because they do not have this certificate. With the new version appearing, it is logical that we no longer need this square code. Now... There has been no epidemiological justification for both red and green regimes for a few weeks. Infects and diseases are both vaccinated and unvaccinated. Of course, by returning to normal life without zones and regimes, people must continue to remind that it is necessary to respect distance, hygiene requirements, not to deliberately provoke... to avoid becoming infected. But again, both vaccinated and unvaccinated people are sick in red and green zones and regimes. As a result, people are now also going to pass tests at the slightest cold. These tests are often... are still waiting for a week in the queue, and then for several more days are waiting for the test results to get this... the fact of overloading, but often at this time we are in a situation where a large proportion of society is at risk or has been at risk. What we see very well - according to our daily statistics - is that now QR code - a square code or this fact of certificate - no longer protects against infection. Therefore, colleagues, in view of these support programmes, which end on 1 March, taking into account what has been said, inter alia, by representatives of the government, including members of the coalition, given what our employers, our society are calling for, we can send out a clear signal that we hear them hear that we can listen to them that we can take this decision - by 1 March to stop internally for our people to be required to produce a QR code so that they can work so that they can get some services. We are also sending out a clear signal that we will have similar conditions in other Baltic countries, that we no longer require certificates in our country at all with these specific dates, so this proposal is absolutely logical and rational. We can support this proposal today. In turn, if the government has the intention that we can make reliefs in part by 1 March, we can do so, but we have made it clear that with 1 March in Latvia - all Latvia, domestically - we allow people to receive all services, we allow them to work without requiring this certificate, which is absolutely logical, taking into account the new circumstances that have arisen in our country. Therefore, dear colleagues, I call on us to support this draft law and to instruct the Cabinet of Ministers to take all the other steps so that we have completely renounced this certificate internally by the prescribed date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U3	Thank you. The vote is requested. Please call me! Vote on the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on the Management of communicable Diseases” (No. 1331/Lp13) transfer to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, making it a responsible commission! Please, let's vote! On - 34, against - 42, refraining - 5. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the Member Evija Papule, Vjačeslava Dombrovskis, Romana Naudiņa, Edgars Tatars and Ingunas Ribena refer the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On State Social Insurance” to the Social and Labour Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Evija Papule, a Member, has applied to speak about’.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U4	Good morning, Madam President-in-Office of the Saeima. Colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I would like to thank those colleagues who supported this proposal, both because already in the budget debate - both on this year's budget and the medium-term budget - such a proposal was based on proposals from the trade union of teachers, and it is also justified to find funds for it, both because, when quoting the Prime Minister, "the money is as much as ever". Clearly, the omicrons have spread rapidly in this situation, and we hear that the prevalence is mainly from schools. So educators are in the environment (not only these two years, working carefully, especially at pre-school level, but also now) where health risks in one way or another, including for comma reasons, are actually very high. The state has not given too much support to teachers who have been working quite consciously and quite diligently in the chaos package for these two years. There are some premiums which are not comparable to the forms and amounts of aid granted to other sectors and businesses. With this proposal, we would actually show both an assessment of our work and the fact that we care about the health of educators, so the country can afford... support teachers by the state. I think that such support is important at this point, even though the financial burden on local authorities is very, very high in terms of supporting their citizens. It is clear that health insurance is almost in the list of all municipalities and in financial publications, but not everything. And at this point again! - that in the omicron situation... the morbidity is very high, we would show support for the teachers, and we would also give additional support to the municipalities so that they can channel their financial resources to other aid programmes, in particular to disadvantaged or vulnerable groups. I call for this proposal to be supported and for solutions to be adopted and found in the budget group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U5	Thank you. The vote is requested. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On State Social Insurance” to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! For - 37, for - 47, for - 2. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Immigration” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U6	Good morning, Madam President-in-Office of the Saeima. Good morning, colleagues! Sitting viewers and listeners! I encourage the Saeima to support the draft law “Amendments to the Immigration Law” supported by the Cabinet of Ministers. As the media reported during the last days, Latvia is taking a wide-ranging step towards introducing a digital wanderer or a toddler visa with this draft law. The aim of the draft law is to facilitate the entry of highly qualified persons into the Republic of Latvia. In a context of globalisation and the spread of Covid-19 infection, there is a growing tendency to take advantage of the possibility of remote employment in a profession that allows for such opportunities, such as the provision of various advisory services, the information technology sector and so on. Studies show that countries with more open immigration policies have on average higher gross domestic product, lower unemployment, lower government spending and a more educated society. The long-stay visa will allow third-country nationals to work for an employer not established in the country where the employer is based. For example, a U.S. citizen who works in the field of information technology for a registered employer in the U.S. is working away from another country, such as Estonia, which issued him with a digital or notary visa. Countries that have introduced or intend to introduce such a regulation indicate that such a solution facilitates the entry of highly qualified immigrants. With Covid–19 there are also new challenges in the field of tourism, which could contribute to human influx, and more and more companies are becoming open, allowing employees to work from anywhere, including Latvia, which is a safe country in the European Union with wonderful nature and relatively cheap living costs. In order to reduce the potential risk of abuse of immigration conditions, the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers under the Immigration Law will have to provide that the person must prove employment with a foreign employer who has been at least six months old must have at least 2.5 average wages, and visa recipients will not have the right to work, and they will not be socially insured in Latvia. It is expected that the remote working visa will not only facilitate the re-entry of Latvian citizens - the remote working workers - from third countries, but will also create favourable conditions for their spouses to carry out their remote working duties legally when working from Latvia. It is planned that after the expiry of the visa period, you will also be able to apply again for a visa for a further one year. This initiative of the Ministry of the Interior is based on the recommendations of the Diaspora Advisory Council, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Riga City Council, with the involvement of other ministries and experts. Thank you to all those who have put their hand in making this regulation, also to colleagues in the Saeima. Overall, remote working visas have been introduced relatively recently as a regulation in a number of European countries. In this respect, Estonia had started by introducing a digital wanderer's visa in 2020. Estonia was followed by several countries, both within the European Union and outside the block. Further work is needed to make Latvia a more attractive environment for highly skilled workers in the fight against competition. This initiative is also supported by business organisations, which indicate that this will be an opportunity not only to attract highly qualified third-country nationals, but also to promote re-migration through this remote working visa. It was not for nothing that the initial impetus for the initiative on the need for a nomadic visa came directly from the Diaspora. Organisations also point out that this modern regulation will allow us to attract a highly skilled workforce and enable our entrepreneurs to develop. I call on the Saeima to support the handover of the draft law to the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption and, later, to support it in the sittings of the Saeima. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U7	Thank you. ‘ Against” applied to speak Member Jānis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U8	Dear colleagues, The idea of such nomadic visas is good and correct, but the realisation offered by the Ministry of the Interior is very hasty and sufficiently low quality. Let's start with an annotation. Is it really about immigration... on a new visa regulation, on a long-stay visa regulation, it was necessary to put in place politically loaded texts that are actually contrary to what is currently defined in the Constitution as being family. Next thing. The immigration rules themselves. I would also be very happy if one of Canada's, America's or perhaps Brazil's IT specialists could travel to Latvia and work from here, bring a contribution to the Latvian economy, but let us be realistic - this regulation will apply to the whole world, and this visa will look most attractive to, for example, the citizens of India, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Russia and other countries, third countries. I would like us all to vote in favour of creating these visas, but there are too many gaps now. The first is tax optimisation. This draft law provides for the possibility that a conscious, circumstantial Latvian firm will go to a more exotic country, where there are lower taxes, set up a company there, attract local IT specialists... or maybe in another field where remote work can be created, will help these persons move to Latvia. It will be formally estimated that these people are working in a company in Bangladesh, but in fact they will sit in one office building with this company in Latvia, who will have a cooperation agreement on authentication of a particular service. In this way, it will be possible not only to attract cheaper labour but also, in fact, to optimise taxes. If these transactions take place somewhere in Bangladesh for the employee, no one can even fully trace the amount of the salary to be paid. Also, if we look at the country and, in particular, the municipalities, the benefits of such noodles are very small. It would be only right that, for example, five per cent of income should be included in the budget. And maybe even most of this money would be passed on to local government budgets, because these people will live physically in Latvia, use Latvian infrastructure. It seems to me that it would only be fair for municipalities to have the opportunity to benefit - tangible, tangible - from these people. Indeed, it seems to me that when we open a new provision on immigration law, we need to act with caution, especially in this geopolitical situation. Therefore, it would perhaps be more correct in the first step to foresee that this rule would apply only to the citizens of OECD countries or NATO countries and that it would not apply to all countries in the world. We look at how this norm works, we look at those who are trying to get into Latvia, if there are any security risks, and only then we expand the list of these countries. As I said, the bill is hasty. In fact, it can be tried to correct at second reading, but it would be better to reject it and recycle it and resubmit it to the Saeima. Perhaps this can also be done by a commission when it examines draft laws at first reading, then this draft law has, as I said, the need to correct both conceptual things and annotation, but now I myself and my fellow Members will not support this particular version of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U9	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law on Immigration to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption, making it a responsible commission! Please, let's vote! For - 68, for - 9, for - 5. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Tax Application in Free Ports and Special Economic Zones” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Official Electronic Addresses” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Energy Law” presented by the Member Ilze Indricsone, Krišjānis Feldman, Kārlis Šadurska, Gata Zamuras and Jānis Dombrava be referred to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, stating that it is a commission responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Next - Transfer of draft laws to commissions and consideration at first reading. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Freeport of Riga Law” presented by the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission be referred to the Commission for Economic, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Let us start with this at first reading. Member of the Commission responsible: Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U10	Good morning, Madam President-in-Office of the Saeima. Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues! In the Saeima, I remind you, the examination of the draft law "Amendments to the Ports Act", which is also on the agenda of this sitting of the Saeima in the next section and which we will see at third reading. When examining this draft law in the Commission, it was supported by the proposal of the Minister of Transport, which states that the State and the municipality are entitled to dispose of the immovable property belonging to it in the territory of the ports, either by transferring it to the municipality or by transferring it to the municipality free of charge. Therefore, two draft laws - this and the next draft laws - were created within the Commission to ensure consistency between the laws and regulations. For, you see, the first paragraph of Section 4 of the Law on Freeport of Riga currently in force states: “The land of the state and municipality in the territory of the Freeport cannot be sold, given or disposed of.” This means that neither can the State transfer its land to a municipality, for example. It is therefore proposed to amend this version to read: ‘The state and municipality land in the area of the Freeport may not be sold, given or otherwise disposed of, except in the cases provided for in the Ports Act or invested in the share capital of the capital company created for the administration of the Freeport.’ The second amendment envisaged by the draft law relates to the fact that, therefore, in order to carry out a licensed commercial activity in the port territory, it is... The law continues to require a copy of the registration certificate in accordance with the current version of the Commercial Law... The claim is therefore removed as an unjustified administrative burden. Well, in this case, it should be abolished as such a small... essentially inconceivableness in this draft law as well. It is simply that this law has not been opened up to one such technical amendment. So, generally speaking, the commission looked at... Of those who participated, there was rather unanimous support... including urgency. I therefore call for the draft law to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U11	Thank you. Members have not applied to speak about urgency. Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Freeport of Riga” as urgent! Please, let's vote! For - 52, for - 12, for - 2. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U12	Thank you. I also call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U13	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U14	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, By getting to know this draft law and what the rapporteur has just announced, our group cannot support such a draft law, because, in our view, this draft law opens the way for such a peculiar injustice against both Riga and Ventspils city. The concept proposed at the moment, which is in the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Ports” and which is also trying to subjugate this draft law, will mean that, in essence, Riga’s assets will be invested in this new capital company and Riga itself will have very weak opportunities to influence these decisions in some way. By its nature, the draft law gives the State green light, including to the nationalisation of municipal property, in principle to take over such property in the hands of the State. The city dwellers themselves who have invested huge resources there - both in Riga and Ventspils - in developing the infrastructure, developing the territory, building it, grouping it together with all the rest of the urban environment... At present, quite simply all these investments, all this asset will be transferred to state ownership free of charge, in return for minority shares, capital shares and, in essence, the possibility of obtaining any income from these countries, as has been the case so far. At this point in time, I think this approach is wrong. I call for this draft law... At least our group will not support this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U15	Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U16	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Like the draft law on ‘Amendments to the Ports Act’... just like that, in fact, with the new draft law, which together with the next draft law “Amendments to Ventspils Freeport Law”... In fact, the ‘Amendments to the Ports Act’ were already at third reading at the last meeting of the Commission. The sitting had already begun... and received an effectively binding draft package when one was in fact almost adopted. If we are talking about the draft law “Amendments to the Freeport of Riga Law”, colleagues, I would like to remind you that this reform plans to completely separate the port from the city. If we are talking specifically about the Freeport of Riga, I would remind you that 1962 hectares are the port territory in Riga. It's Riga's stuff, it's townman's stuff. And what is most worrying to me, colleagues - I have repeatedly on the parallel bill, on the main one... This is the accompanying draft law, but to the main draft law - where is the decision of the Riga City Council? Because the Riga people elect their Presidents and the Presidents decide how to manage Riga. There is still no such decision from Riga City Council. What we have heard is that there has been some informal culinary talks between the Minister of Transport and one of the Vice-Presidents of Riga on an agreement on some kind of exchange, perhaps against some additional funding for an infrastructure, but we give up with a light hand, colleagues... I point to the risks that, in the long term, will carry not only to the Rigans, but also to the entire Latvian economy... I do not support this draft law, my fellow Members, and I call on you to do the same. In any case, do not allow it further in Parliament and do not accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U17	Thank you. I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U18	On behalf of the Commission, of course, we have these... So good. That would be more at the debate. On behalf of the Commission, I would remind you that there has been very good support for this draft law. I therefore call for support to be given to the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U19	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Freeport of Riga” at first reading! Please, let's vote! For - 51, for - 14, for - 1. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U20	The deadline for tabling proposals is 17 February this year, and the session of the Saeima is scheduled for 24 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U21	Thank you. Deadline for the proposals - 14 February this year, examination by the Saeima - 24 February this year. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Freeport of Ventspils Law” presented by the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission be referred to the Economic, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. I am sorry, we have been asked for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Freeport of Ventspils Law” to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! For - 53, for - 13, for - 1. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Let us start with this at first reading. Member of the Commission responsible: Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U22	As in the previous draft law, it is necessary to adapt the norm of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Ports” at third reading that the State and the municipality have the right to actually change the land or transfer one another free of charge. Thus, the first paragraph of Section 4 is also expressed here in a factually identical version, as is the case for the Freeport of Riga, and, of course, this copy from the commercial register will no longer be required. One nuance we found in the Commission - unlike the Freeport of Riga, where privatisation of the municipality's land was prohibited, Ventspils was regulated differently, so privatisation of the state land in the port area was prohibited. It turns out that so far in Ventspils it has been possible to privatise, now, dispose of, the land of the municipality. Of course, in the end, regardless of how it has been, the final amendment that we offer in this draft law is identical: “The state and municipality land in the area of the Freeport may not be sold, given or otherwise disposed of, except in the cases provided for in the Port Law or invested in the share capital of the capital company created for the administration of the Freeport.” That's, yeah... Well, I think it's very, very understandable. There was also good support, practically unanimous, of those who participated in the Commission, so we also decided on the urgency given the small amount of the amendments. I propose supporting the urgency of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U23	Thank you. Members have not applied for urgent measures. Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to Ventspils Freeport Law” as urgent! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U24	I therefore call for support to be given to the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U25	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Gundars Many.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U26	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The draft law “Amendments to the Ventspils Freeport Law” provides for a ban on the municipality as owner to freely dispose of the property of the municipality. Currently, the municipality may sell, give or otherwise dispose of its land in the territory of the Freeport of Ventspils. In the event that the property in question is necessary for the performance of port functions, the Ports Act grants pre-emption rights to the port authority. Thus, the law currently strikes a reasonable balance between the rights of the municipality and the interests of the port. The draft law to be discussed, together with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Ports” on the agenda, will completely suspend the right of the municipality to dispose of its property in the entire territory of the Freeport of Ventspils... and Ventspils Municipality owns 42 percent of the... I'm sorry, the Freeport area is 42 percent of the municipality's territory. The municipality will be prohibited both from carrying out its projects on its land and from selling its land to companies operating in the port for investment and production and economic development. In addition, the whole Freeport of Ventspils, which covers 42 percent of the territory of Ventspils, is planned to be transferred to the full and unlimited state capital company by means of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Ports”. The state capital company will be entitled to use this territory of the municipality and the property of the municipality in it worth about 150 million for income, and this income will be spent for any purpose anywhere in Latvia or even abroad. But the question is - why is it necessary, and is the country alone capable of ensuring the full functioning of the Freeport of Ventspils? The facts show that - no. Until 2019 the Freeport of Ventspils was managed in equal parts by the municipality together with the state. Each of them had four seats on the Freeport of Ventspils Board members. First changes to the Freeport of Ventspils administration were made by the Law of 18 December 2019 on Amendments to the Law on Ports, fully excluding the municipality from the port authority. This action was called port reform, but the consequences of such reform have been catastrophic. If about 20 million tons of cargo were transhipped in 2019 at the Freeport of Ventspils, then in 2021 – only about 11 million tons of cargo, that is, only half. If in 2019 port fee deductions in the budget of Ventspils Municipality were 1.26 million euros, then in 2021 - only 680 thousand euros. The number of employees in the port companies has also decreased, and the Freeport of Ventspils Authority is already actually operating in the country. It is not possible for the municipality to obtain complete information about what is happening to its properties in the free port area. Currently, any economic activity of Ventspils municipality in the territory of the port has actually been suspended. Several port merchants have applied to the municipality for a request to sell the land under the buildings owned by them, but it is not possible for the municipality to carry out these transactions because the Freeport of Ventspils Authority objects. The municipality would invest these funds for the development of commercial activities in the Freeport of Ventspils territory, but this is not possible at the moment. Ventspils State City Municipality owns 1330 hectares of land in the Freeport of Ventspils, which is more than 54 percent of the total port area. By denying the municipality to dispose of this land, the industrialization, industrial and industrial development successfully launched in Ventspils will be stopped. The investment environment in the Freeport of Ventspils will not be attractive, as investors will not be sure to keep investments made on municipal land even after the expiry of the lease agreement. Moreover, in such a situation, the land will not be used to raise credit assets, as there is a prohibition on the disposal of the property, meaningless for any potential mortgage. For example, in 2012, a built-in plot of land owned by Ventspils City Municipality was sold in the auction. It was bought by the international company Bucher Municipal for more than EUR 4 million in the auction. This company has been successful and has contributed to the Latvian economy for almost 10 years now. In 2021 the turnover of this company was 64.1 million euros, social tax - 2.18 million euros and personal income tax - 1.06 million euros was paid into the state budget. The implementation of such a project will no longer be possible. Leave without investment, there will also stop the creation of new jobs, which so far have gradually developed both in Ventspils High Technology Park and in the industrial area of Ganību Street. The Freeport of Ventspils Authority has already refused to implement the project and the European Union funds linked to it in the amount of EUR 1 million, which would result in the creation of new jobs again. The current Ventspils Freeport Law allows the municipality to dispose of land under a private person's building, but now amendments proposed in the draft law do not allow it. How, then, will the liquidation of shared property promoted by the Ministry of Justice remain in Latvia? Will the Freeport of Ventspils be an exception, and with these amendments of the law we will strengthen the directly divided property without the right to terminate it at any time, because the municipality cannot sell land in the Freeport of Ventspils? I don't understand. As a Ventspils citizen, I do not understand how essential strategic resources such as port activities can be reformed if there is no assessment of the proposed action at all. Who can now say and prove that ports will work better after reform than before? I have been comparing the results of Ventspils Freeport activities in the past two years since the municipality was completely excluded from the port authority. And I have to say that these results are not in favour of the new governance model. At the moment it seems that ports are reformed only once, but no one has actually even tried to assess whether and why the new port model could be better than the existing one. I therefore call for the vote to be taken against this draft law at first reading, as well as against the adoption at third reading of the draft law on ports. So I call for the vote to be taken against the draft law on Amendments to the Ventspils Freeport Law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U27	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U28	Our commission was rather surprised to learn that in these related laws the Freeport of Riga has so far worked under different terms than the Freeport of Ventspils. And the Freeport of Riga has worked quite successfully. Of course, another issue is the cargo portfolio, where these so-called fossil resources have now fallen for objective reasons... these transhipment volumes, but thus generally successfully worked without any right to sell land to private individuals in the port area. Well, let me remind you that a port is only possible where it is possible geographically, as you say. That's why... And we do not have a very large number of such places in Latvia where large ports are possible, in this case deep-water and non-free ports such as Ventspils. Well, we don't have too many. Thus, we were really surprised in the Commission that the municipality was trying to transfer the land located in the port area directly to each manager for privatisation. And more. I must point out that, as regards the involvement of the municipality in the draft law that we are going to see, the amendments to the Ports Act... We are calling on the local government to get involved... Thus, with the involvement of the municipality, both these dividends, apart from any deduction of port charges... Ten per cent of port fees... There would also be a right to appoint their own people to the boards, including the board, so to participate in these selections. And basically also the shareholder has all the information and... But, of course, it's the difference that... Thus, the equity company model ensures transparent governance. The business model here is not changed in any way. And one more thing. Yes, regulation will also provide that if there is a situation in which the municipality needs to dispose of some investment projects, for example, at any price, in the territory of the port... Now in the port territory... the existing land will, of course, be able to exclude it from the port area. So it could be, of course, a joint decision between the municipality and the state... Thus, the port area is reduced, and the municipality can act at its discretion with this land. But the port is a strategic object whose borders should be changed by each wind, I think it would not be acceptable, therefore, I also call on Ventspils's intention to work constructively and to participate as quickly as possible and take decisions in favour of Ventspils residents, not in the interest of Ventspils's so-called establishment. this new port management model. Consequently, I will have nothing to add on behalf of the Commission. I will then call - again - for support for this first-reading draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U29	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U30	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Dear Mr. Feldman! Of course, you can speak wisely about this bright future. Unfortunately, not only the people of Ventspils, but any citizen of Latvia now sees and suffers from the way in which you manage ports. It's so smart that... We can compare. We can compare at the level of the Baltic States, we can look at the success of Lithuania, as Estonia is doing, at the same conditions, in the same geopolitical situation, at a much less efficient transit corridor... they are able to manage their transit business more effectively and essentially contribute rather than damage to the public budget. That's what you're doing right now... Within three years... For more than three years... and over two years in full control... Totally, one hundred percent, controls taking over these strategic assets... What is the result of your action? The objective is that neither the Ventspils residents nor any other citizen of Latvia, who sees and analyzes this situation, has become the recipient of money by the “Latvian Railway” from the company, which was an annual supplement to the budget... From a situation where cargo volumes have fallen... round... Two times... drop in cargo volumes... You are telling me that you will benefit from this situation. You are telling us that this new capital company, which will now put these assets in, will win. But when you see how you have been working for several years, it is quite understandable that the municipality will still have to pay - just like Ventspils, like Riga. Ports from the fact that they bring the municipality into the budget, bring funds to the state budget, create infrastructure, will become... is approaching to become a grantable company very quickly. Just as it is with the company “Latvian Railway”. Colleagues, transit business you have just broken down and continue to undermine it. We can compare these data, and the data shows that everything goes down in Latvia. Lithuania, Estonia have even managed to raise cargo volumes in some sectors. We? Let's just go to the oats, if you can say so. Colleagues! The UKP has unfortunately shown by driving the transport sector that inconceivable things can happen - inconceivable things! Even in the nightmare, it could not be imagined that Riga Airport would lose Lithuania and Estonia. How is this even possible: after all the hundreds of millions of investments invested there, both in airBaltic and at the airport itself, they lose their competitiveness?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And the same thing is happening at the moment with our ports. Colleagues, let us be honest: a coalition blindly goes along. October will come, and everyone will have to sit down and pick up those patrols, and think how to turn it back, how to save this one more. We invite you to wake up now and look. If you criticise the fact that something has not been done in Ventspils as needed, look objectively. Business development indicators, business attraction indicators - show where it is better! Show me where there are better indicators! Transforming the port business model... It is already done in Ventspils in 10-15 years. Related companies, multinational companies... Show in which port of Latvia it has been done better! There is a clear involvement of the municipality itself. Related investments - both structural and private business investments... maybe also selling municipal land somewhere... But we see the result, we see thousands of jobs created. This is the result of this kind of policy. It's all down now. We do not see any added value from what has now happened. ‘ The port of Venta’ is mentioned as an example of a capital company... Colleagues, this example is simply criminal! What exactly are they doing? What is their added value? Freeport of Ventspils right now... That's something... a good example? It would be a shame to mention such an example even! The figures show that everything goes down there. No prospects for development. The dispute between the state and the municipality. There would have been some attempt to reach consensus. The municipality offers an opportunity to develop, the port - blocks. Who needs this? Colleagues, a normal model worked. We have clearly shown how the operating model can be destroyed in one day - come here, clean everything, take control of it... without any sense of how this business is organised, how this cooperation between the municipality and the state takes place. Now we see the result, here it is - our transit business sector has gone far down... A row of numbers has gone down. We see that our country's companies operating in this business have to be given, and we are at a distance until the ports have to be given. And at this point in no way can I be convinced that there will be any bright future. Colleagues, this is a unique case. We are not changing the model of managing ports, saying, in essence, today: from tomorrow the municipality will no longer be there, we will take everything in our hands, and now we will show how it should be done. Colleagues, you have been showing us how to do this for two years, and your results are devastatingly bad. That is what you have achieved now. And now you're telling me that we'll make a capital company and everything will be beautiful, rosary, and the municipality will be able to live happily, have dividends and get to know something else. Colleagues, there will be nothing! There will be nothing to this kind of governance. And at one point the municipality of Riga will also understand that they are actually deceived in this offer. And when they realise that they do not have dividends, there will also be a dispute, and we will have to thoroughly reform this reform. And instead of thinking about attracting investors, about strategies, about how to make our transit corridor more successful, we will be forced to continue thinking about how to organise this management, so that the state and municipality work as a team to attract investment. Now it's ruined - it's ruined in the very foundations, and you're going to go on escalating... That is what I cannot understand, and that is why I also call on colleagues to reflect, to look at the real, actual situation. Many of you colleagues have been in Ventspils and have seen these industrial parks that have been established. This is also the case in Liepaja. We see good examples. The drivers of these successful examples... Now it's going to be the year you've been calling... Please let them work further and stop the bardaque that you are currently building with all your reforms... port reforms, management reforms, with various... with these beautiful principles. In the end, Latvia's population is the biggest loser. And this is a very large budget revenue that we lose. Instead of creating some kind of contribution from this sector, we are simply losing. We allow us to say that the transit sector - that is already history. And that's not what somebody says... But that's what the Minister says! That is what the Minister says! Where have you seen it in Lithuania or Estonia?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I think that a certain good minister will soon be given an order by our neighbour to promote their economic development with all these statements. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call for this draft law to be rejected and for it to appear at some point. We need to open our eyes and understand how deep we are in the pit and with what capacity we destroy our own assets, our work that we have invested in order to get Latvian taxpayers something from these assets. We see that all this is being undermined - it is being undermined with slogans for better governance. You've been in control for two years. Where are the results? No results. Zero! The results are minus... to be divided into two. And don't tell me that there's a geopolitist here... Where, then, is its geopolitical policy for Lithuania and Estonia? Where is their geopolitika then? They are under the same conditions. Our transit corridor is much more competitive from a cost point of view. This has always been the case. All this ended when this power began to implement its vision of managing ports and our transit business. At the moment the Minister said that the transit business was not a priority for him. Here's the result for you! Here's the result for you! Instead of building schools and paying teachers, we pay the “Latvian Railway” for it to function. Instead of getting... thousands of employees are dismissed, not run by this business. Colleagues, I call on you to listen and not to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U31	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue the debate after a break. There's also a record of Members. Members' registration is over. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U32	Dear Members and honourable Members, We shall continue the examination of the agenda of the second remote extraordinary sitting of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 10 February 2022. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to Ventspils Freeport Law”, first reading. We are continuing the debate on the draft law. The name to Member Gundars is a second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U33	Dear President, Honourable Members! I would like to comment on what Member Feldman said in the debate. I understand that Mr Feldman does not understand that a port free - it is not just a port. In particular, the Freeport of Ventspils, which covers 42 percent of the territory of Ventspils, consists of a port and an industrial zone of the Freeport of Ventspils, where 20 new companies and 20 new production facilities have been established, which have created two thousand... more than two thousand new jobs. And from 2002, when it was 7 million, production has increased to 250 million in 2020. And that is why it is important to maintain this right to privatise the land. It is not the land facing the river and the port. It is the land under the company that produces, develops and has a long-term rental right. But, of course, in any case, the owner's sense of security is at the moment when this land is his property. And in principle it is only in the interests of the Latvian economy and in the interests of Latvia's competitiveness. Therefore, we should not mix two different things. And that is why I believe that this draft law should not be supported at first reading, because it will simply undermine the interest of these investors to build businesses in the industrial area of the Freeport of Ventspils. I call for no support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U34	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U35	Dear President, Dear colleagues, Reflecting on what Mr. Feldman, Head of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, from the New Conservative Party, I have to remind you if we are talking about Ventspils (this time about Ventspils), Ventspils City Municipality's right to manage an area of 2451.39 hectares (or - 42.37 per cent of its administrative territory). You know, colleagues, it's not just a port terminal area that maybe... Just... Mr. Feldman thinks it's all an industrial territory. And the territory of the port terminals in the port of Ventspils is about 550 hectares. So, colleagues, you need to understand what we're talking about. This story is not about ports; it is about industrialization of the city. Mr. Kariņš calls it smart industrialisation. These are workplaces, this is a zone where there is also a special tax regime, so that people work so far from Riga; to develop... to have jobs, building on this port’s potential and close cooperation with the city. And what I mentioned on several occasions, including the port law itself... many times - from the first reading, from the very beginning... I ask the Ministry of Transport to show what economic justification is; where is the business plan that really from this reform... with all the accompanying norms, the accompanying draft laws... life in the country will be better for the population, and life will be better for the urban population. The reply was that there was no such assessment. There's no evaluation! And here we are dealing with the package... zero, as in fact almost adopted at third reading, one draft law that we will look at today... But new draft laws come with you... in an emergency... without assessment. Why are we not going to look at these city dwellers? We tell them that life will be better. On what basis can they maintain a better life? Colleagues! At present, these port management laws... It is not just a change in governance, it also means that this system changes... from a public derived person whose task was also to work for urban residents... This means that we will work on completely different rules - on the basis of commercial rules; there will therefore be business secrets and everything that results from it. To the previous one. In this regard, for example, I also contacted representatives of Riga City Council. Clearly, there was no decision for the Riga City Council, but I received... the benefits of urban people, the amounts received each year by the city of Riga and, above all, what additional development projects have been promoted in our capital outside the port area. I am not only talking about city holidays; I am also talking about infrastructure. In the case of Ventspils, this is even more pronounced, and Ventspils residents have to look very critically at this situation. And for good reason we, all Members, have also received the decision of Ventspils City Council, which we can get acquainted with, these arguments. And if Mr. Feldman of the New Conservative Party calls... that they are not arguments that it is demagogy, then, please counter argument this! Here's a list... exactly from every law... for every article - what this means, and what is the danger for the urban people of this. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call... I certainly join my colleagues in saying that we cannot adopt such a law, because it will not benefit. There is no evidence that it would benefit, right on the other hand - there is evidence that it would not benefit the Latvian economy or the Latvian economy, where it would still benefit the city of Ventspils and its residents. I call for the 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U36	The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U37	Hello, very respectable chair of the sitting! Good afternoon, dear colleagues, honourable colleagues! You know that I am a ventspils, and therefore, this time too, I cannot talk about this draft law, which is very important for the whole city of Ventspils. First of all, a few words to Mr Feldman, Head of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. I understand that you are fulfilling the political task and trying to do it as you can. You are covering up with a phrase written in Karina's government declaration and you are also formally referring to port management practices in OECD countries - with the help of commercial companies - but on all this basis you are doing something different, by nature you are doing something different. You try to nationalise the two big ports of Latvia - Ventspils and Riga - as if formally allowing municipalities to be minority shareholders. But what a minority shareholder means is very well understood by business people - it is an opportunity to participate, but it is not an opportunity to set a agenda. You have often positioned yourself as an economist, and economists usually work with macro-economics. And I don't want to blame you in particular, but in this case, as my colleagues have already said, we are basically talking about business management and not only business management, but in general about management in a complex situation where public and private interests are faced, because public persons - and in this case Ventspils City Council - are interested in attracting entrepreneurs in their territory who provide jobs that also create national gross output in the country. The municipality does not receive taxes from it, but the municipality receives taxes from personal income tax, i.e. it is such a good... Let's not say, good, but it's such a complex circle as this whole system has been built. In Ventspils this system, this new system, has been built since 2000, when Ventspils had a problem of being such a transit city of oil, a transit port of oil, one of the main transit ports in Europe, and when these volumes fell and the city switched to an industrialisation project, and what Gundars Multie spoke about earlier... are these results from the implementation of the city’s industrialization project, which is due to the need to attract foreign direct investment, these are direct negotiations with investors who can choose Liepaja as well, will be able to choose Riga, you can choose Tallinn, you can choose Klaipeda if they are interested in the port as such. And always the question of what is at stake (I have been in such negotiations) is the question of a long-term perspective, so what will happen if the company comes in if it starts to work successfully and the company realises that it stays there for a long time. This is very important for local authorities and also for local people if a company remains for a long time, because it means long-term stability, it guarantees stability. And the criterion of whether the company stays for a long time (in Latvia we have also had negative examples)... The criterion is whether this company is prepared to invest in real estate or simply rent land and rent a building for production, or whether it starts to buy something itself. And it is often quite important because the company wants to optimise its cash structure, and then this potential acquisition of at least some kind of real estate - what is under the buildings in the situation of Latvia - is completely logical. And everyone is interested in this. As Gundars Dauge has already said, these industrial areas in Ventspils, which are part of the free port area, are large enough and, for example, those large, developed companies are located in exactly the part of the airport or the part of the Perventa. Mr Feldman, I have met you several times in Ventspils and I know that you are planting in front of this Ventspils layout, and I also hope that you know how the Ventspils hosts. So maybe this is also my turn to you as the head of the committee - we should not try to change the usual order that has worked well, change it, or change it from time to time. I am not saying that there can be no cosmetic change, but to undermine it - I do not see a rational basis for this. The other thing. And now I turn to all the Members of the Saeima... how my colleague Edgars Tavars just showed you... Yes, indeed, we are all Members, perhaps today... I received at least today a letter signed by the Chairman of Ventspils City Council Jānis Vītoliņš, which is an appeal to all 13. Members of the Saeima with a presentation of the situation and also with the text of the decision of 8 February of Ventspils City Council. This letter sets out the basic facts that Gundar Many talked about, those figures and... these things, but there's something else. If you look at this decision of Ventspils City Council, you will see that there is really a lot... I really say that there are a lot of additional things that, in connection with the introduction of the norms envisaged in the Ports Act, are related to changes in either other laws, or to the work not done by a ministry or by the whole Cabinet of Ministers, so that the whole thing can move forward. All of this is reflected in these decisions of Ventspils Council. I really call on you, as far as possible... because we're looking at all these issues today one after the other... read and try to understand the complex situation in which we are set up and in which... At the moment, even in such an urgent regime, we are invited to act, as this particular draft law is a draft law on Ventspils... on amendments to the Freeport of Ventspils law - it is only to eliminate one of them or part of them, let us say, non-compliance with the whole planned system... which in Latvia has been active in the area of free ports and interferes with the adoption of the Ports Act in its intended version. Therefore, we are also being rushed now to adopt it quickly so that we can move forward - at third reading - with fewer complications towards the adoption of amendments to the Ports Act. In the light of all the things I have just said, I call for it to be imperative. - do not support these amendments to Ventspils Freeport Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U38	The debate is closed. Mr. Feldman, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U39	On behalf of the Commission, I can only ask for support at first reading. Thank you for the debate, we also heard something similar in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U40	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to Ventspils Freeport Law”! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading and the date of the sitting of the Saeima for the second, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U41	Time-limit for the submission of proposals for second reading - 17 February this year, second, final, reading by the Saeima - 24 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U42	Thank you. So there are no other proposals. The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 17 February this year, and the sitting of the Saeima on 24 February. The agenda of the next meeting was the Bureau's reports on own-initiative proposals submitted. On the agenda - the own-initiative proposal submitted by Members Viktors Valaiņa, Ulda Augulis, Armands Krauze, Edgars Tatars, Janina Jalinska, Gundars Dauges, Māra Kučinska, Jānis Vacāns, Raimonds Bergmanis and Jānis Dūklavs - draft decision on the non-application of penalty interest in the Republic of Latvia in the event of an emergency situation. Dear Members, Honourable Members! Do you object to the examination of this own-initiative proposal at this sitting? Please log in! So, Member Puce objected. We must therefore decide on the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of the Saeima's next sitting. One Member can talk about this, one against and one against. Mr. Valains, you're going to talk... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U43	‘For’.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U44	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U45	Very respectful Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, I am surprised by the unwillingness to look at this issue today, but I very much hope that you will agree, at least next week or next sitting, to look at the substance of this issue, as the current situation with electricity bills and support instruments... One is that these support instruments are insufficient, which I have already emphasised. The second is that they are focused on tomorrow, they are not focused on the situation, for example, for entrepreneurs, these bills, which are four five thousand, even EUR 10 000 - for manufacturing entrepreneurs, for whom this is a very heavy burden. I had a meeting last week with the Council for the Cooperation of Agricultural Organisations and a number of farmers' organisations where we discussed this issue and where there was a range of issues, calling for no penalty interest, at least in this way, for state-owned companies to come forward with examples - namely municipal companies that have already taken such a step, which are already coming against entrepreneurs, citizens. It is not a story that we are reducing bills, it is a story that we are not imposing penalty interest during this time of crisis, we are not imposing any additional burden. That's a story about it. In contact with a number of regional business organisations, looking at this issue in various formats, we came to the conclusion that such a decision by the Saeima is vital and it is now very necessary to give a clear opinion by the Saeima to all state-owned companies operating in the field of energy - not to impose these penalties, not to impose these penalties. Colleagues, if an entrepreneur who had previously had an electricity bill of EUR 1000... and now he's got an invoice of 400-5000 euros... one is to think about how to pay this 400-5000 euro, but he can't immediately collect it all, but if we, as a country with our capital companies, come and impose an additional burden and start at the expense of this 5000 euro... pay another... he's fined his interest for not paying in time... It is natural that they will not be paid in time. In the present situation, this is normal. At the moment, the government is not proposing any solutions to reduce these bills. We call, at least we don't put a percentage on the penalty! Under the current framework, every state-owned company in this situation will simply account for the interest on fines. In our view, this is not normal, it affects our competitiveness, it affects our entrepreneurs' ability to continue to produce and to think about how to produce, instead of thinking about how to pay bills as soon as possible... on the other hand, in return for a penalty interest. Colleagues, I think this is an unsolved thing that now... We are very lacking, and just like we have introduced various moratoriums on insolvency and all kinds of support for entrepreneurs, which perhaps not just budget payments, but... such a clear vision that we are not imposing any additional burdens. At the moment, this burden is, in my opinion, severely, overstated. These are entrepreneurs - these are our Latvian entrepreneurs, manufacturing entrepreneurs - who want to continue working, but when they receive a message from the Latvian company Latvenergo or another company operating in the field of energy, with this penalty interest premium - it is not normal, you will agree, it is not normal. The municipalities are already doing this! The municipalities are already doing this. I would also call for this to be done at national level and for it to be established that this is also what we are... The Saeima's decision we offer. Colleagues, we have this question... If you reject it today, we will not leave it alone. We will come and continue until you listen to this problem. I therefore call on Mr Pouce to say that if once Mr Pouce objected to it being placed on the agenda today, perhaps Mr Pouce will apply and next week in the debate on the draft decision itself... or at the next sitting when it will be held, we (not to be heard) ... we will debate this and find the best solution. I call for support for inclusion in the next sitting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U46	Thank you. We will vote for the inclusion of the draft decision on the non-application of penalty interest in the Republic of Latvia during the extraordinary situation on the agenda of the next sitting! Please vote mode! On - 36, against - 46, refraining from - 1. The draft decision is not on the agenda of the next sitting of the Saeima. Do Members have proposals to refer the draft decision to one of the commissions? Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U47	Colleagues! It would be only normal if we did not reject it in its entirety, but instead hand it over to a very respected Budgetary and Financial (Tax) Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U48	So there are no other proposals. There is a proposal to refer the draft decision to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Please call me! We will vote for the transfer of the draft decision on the non-application of penalty interest in the Republic of Latvia during the extraordinary situation to the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission! Please vote mode! On - 37, against - 47, refraining from - 1. The own-initiative proposal has been rejected. The next item on the agenda of the Saeima sitting is the own-initiative proposal submitted by the Members of the Saeima Ramona Petravičas, Māra Možvillo, Karina Sprūdes, Alda Gobzema, Julia Stepanenko, Kaspars Ģirgens, Lubovas Švekovas, Ieva Krapāne, Ingunas Rienas and Ralfas Nemiro – “On task for the Cabinet of Ministers to stop using Covid-19 certificates in the Republic of Latvia”. Are Members opposed to the examination of this own-initiative proposal at this sitting? Please log in. So, Mr. Valaiņš has applied. Members have reservations. So Members have reservations, so we have to decide to put this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of the Saeima's next sitting. ‘ Ms Ramona Petraviča, a member of the Bureau, has already applied for the inclusion of the draft decision on the agenda of the next meeting. Please also apply electronically. Please, name!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U49	Dear President, Dear colleagues, The draft decision shall be adopted within one week of the adoption of the decision... immediately waive the use of Covid-19 certificates and remove any restrictions on persons without Covid-19 certificate. The government's current possible plan from 1 March to remove the requirement for a digital Covid-19 certificate for retail sale or to facilitate access to services only for vaccinees is late, insufficient and ignores at least 62 000 people who have had to give up their ability to maintain their families or move freely for the entire duration of the emergency. I have already pointed out in the past that the government's vaccination policy, which will be a priority in the future plan, puts people in an absurd situation: they want and are looking for the opportunity to become infected with Covid-19 in order to burst home rather than go to vaccination. And all this is done to get a certificate. This is a rough pressure to vaccinate. The solution to this injustice must be immediate, even for two reasons. First. Certificates illegally restrict unvaccinated rights. And it should be noted that from 15 February at least 50,000 additional people without a booster dose will be placed in the same adverse situation as unvaccinated. As has been shown, vaccination is likely to cause serious side effects, and vaccinations may give rise to doubts and even fear of further vaccinations. And the rhetoric of the government in this respect has been limited to the promise of compensation; the government has no attempt to ensure the safety of the vaccinated. In addition, everyone is ill, both vaccinated and unvaccinated. The recipients of the booster vaccines are also infected and the disease has nothing to do with the certificates. In such cases, there is a need to ensure a fundamental right of choice by giving people without certificates the same rights as others. Western European countries and neighbouring countries, which are comparable to Latvia's situation in terms of morbidity and vaccination, are already implementing this by following the European Union resolution on the impact of Covid-19 measures on democracy. For this reason, I believe that the government's late action is unjustified. Secondly. The main purpose of the certificates has become obsolete. I will illustrate just one of the government's planned policies in the context of Covid-19 certificates. From 15 February service providers will be allowed to work without a vaccination certificate, but recipients will need it. This and similar policies will never reduce morbidity and hospitalisation. There is an increasing tendency for the majority of vaccinees to become ill or to become hospitalised. This will not contribute to people’s desire to be vaccinated; this is seen in the shrinking daily vaccination coverage. The only role of certificates in this situation is a marked discrimination against people without QR codes. A decision was recently made in the United Kingdom to reduce self- isolation from 10 to five days, as the disease rate proved to be almost independent of vaccination. At a time when the certificate system does not provide a logical justification, its use must be discontinued immediately and not after two months. For too long, Covid-19 certificates have been unduly divided by the public and have left a large part of them without work, means of subsistence or access to basic services. As has been said from the government, the policy of restrictions must be the same... the way in our neighbourhood. So how can we do that? Calling Lithuania to renew certificates? With this approach, we are only heating our neighbouring economies and continue to hold our sectors hard, paying benefits. Well, of course, we are a rich country. I therefore call for support for this draft decision to be put on the agenda for the next sitting if it was rejected and if there is no talk about the need to discuss it at today's sitting. Please support the withdrawal of certificates.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U50	Mr Gobzem, you want to talk about the inclusion of a draft decision against it on the agenda of the next sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U51	I would like to say 'no' to the fact that the draft decision is on the agenda of the next sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U52	Please, you have a name.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U53	Dear people! I would like to ask you to understand that this issue has not been carried out, and that is why I applied to speak against postponing the next Saeima sitting. The certificates must be cancelled now - immediately. Let me explain many reasons. I just... All Latvia knows this - I was just, literally, last weekend, in England. In England, there are more people in any cafe than in all Latvian supermarkets together. I'm not going to talk about supermarkets; I'm not going to talk about four-storey shops, where life is full of people, no one walks with masks. QR codes need not be displayed anywhere, no one has asked or asked anywhere, absolutely nowhere. The only place where the QR code was required - to board a airBaltic flight without a mask if you drink water all the way. By the way. Because the viruses don't stick. Dear people! Wherever I have been in the world, QR codes are not required anywhere. There's nowhere. People are moving freely. I meet my acquaintances, London's acquaintances who say they've never worn masks in these two years. And it's forbidden for any representative of power to ask a man why you don't wear a mask. It is not there that punish people for not wearing masks, as it is in Latvia, but those who allow them to ask such a private question as why there is no mask. Yes, perhaps someone can be offered. And the argument didn't have to be at all about you having some consylium or something. The argument that it's hard for you to breathe in that mask is enough. Hundreds, thousands of people - crowded shops, crowded streets! Happy, free people! Dear people, I want you to open your eyes: with us all this farce is just because the coalition of power wants to pull it along, because there's only business back there. All the restrictions are business. Theft of money to put Latvia down the bubble completely to harm our country, both economically and in every other way. All the restrictions are in favour of a very narrow group of people - all those who will vote for certificates not to be withdrawn. Those who... By the way, also Member Andris Skride, who has received from Pfizer's money... The “Pfizer” website contains... they are listed as vaccines. There's no need for anything... you have been vaccinated or have not been vaccinated. I haven't vaccinated. None... You go abroad to the concerts, the floors are collapsing with other people - everything is fine. Formally, you have to pass some test, but no one is interested in any tests. No one sends any tests, no self-checks. Life's going on! It's just happening! People live, the economy happens, they start to live at least; it's not like the whole of Riga looks like the apocalypse. Enter the largest city of Latvia - everything looks abandoned. Looks like there's been a third world war here. You, those maids vaxers, open your eyes too. There's an afer. That's it. You can try to pull it all along, but it's over. Most are ill or ill as with common flu. The whole world refuses all this, but we... No, we pull the length, because some need to steal a little more. That's why I'm against postponing for some time. You must remember that, in every sitting, there will be this issue on the agenda of each sitting. You will all the time be reminded that this criminal regime must be rejected. This stolen, criminal regime will be established, and they will be judged for harm to Latvia. It is open-minded on all issues, damaging the economy, damaging people's lives, and it will not be forgotten! It's almost the whole bank that's going to play on all sides. We know that you too - closing, for example, me out of the Saeima sittings - but you too will be on the whole bank, and that day will come.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U54	Time. One Member has spoken 'yes', one has spoken 'no' to include the draft decision on the agenda of the next sitting. The decision must be taken by vote. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft decision “On task for the Cabinet of Ministers to terminate the use of Covid-19 certificates in the Republic of Latvia” on the agenda of the next meeting! Please vote mode! For - 36, for - 49, for - 2. The draft decision is not on the agenda of the next sitting of the Saeima. Do Members have a proposal to hand over the own-initiative proposal in question to one of the commissions? Please log in! Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U55	Colleagues! I'm more... Also on the procedure, so that it does not repeat the next draft decisions... I did not object to the examination of this draft decision... inclusion on the agenda of today's sitting. This information shall come from previous votes. So here we have to think about the procedure - what to do right now. Because before the previous vote... It's... Well, I didn't mind, neither did anyone else object... Just this system reveals the issues of holding a sitting... These were the previous issues where we debated 'for', 'no'... and so on. Because I had not applied as a opponent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U56	The name Ramon Petraviča is for the commission proposal. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U57	I call for the budget and financial (tax) commission to be handed over.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U58	So there is a proposal to hand over the draft decision - the own-initiative proposal - to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Please call me! We will vote for the transfer of the draft decision “On task for the Cabinet of Ministers to terminate the use of Covid-19 certificates in the Republic of Latvia” to the Committee on Budget and Finance (tax)! Please vote mode! For - 39, for - 49, for - 2. The own-initiative proposal has been rejected. The next item is the own-initiative proposal by Karina Sprūde, Alda Gobzem, Romana Nadiņa, Viktora Valaiņa, Māra Možvillo, Kaspars Ģirgena, Lubova Švekova, Julia Stepanenko, Ieva Krapāne and Ralfa Nemiro, on the draft decision on the task of the Cabinet of Ministers to abolish the requirement to wear masks for children. Are Members opposed to the examination of this own-initiative proposal at this sitting? Please log in! Members have reservations. We must therefore decide on the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of the Saeima's next sitting. One Member can speak 'for', one for 'no'. Mr Gobzem, are you going to talk about it or 'no'?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U59	I will talk about it. But I can also speak against postponing - as you would like. I will talk about it. In short, the story is: I am impressed by Juris Pūce, who also has children, but who wants children as concentration camps... go to school with masks. Children develop language skills by looking at how a person speaks and how his mouth moves. You don't know that? That's why most coalitions are silent - probably they've been sitting in masks not only for these last two years, but for the rest of their lives. For children masks keep - it's a crime against children. It is a crime against humanity. It is not a single person but a group; it means a legal crime against humanity. There is no need to wear masks in the normal world. You're leaving there -- nobody has a mask, everyone walks freely -- normal, free people, not... Children like we sent to the graves to school. Then they come out, go into public transport or go somewhere else and continue to be in the mask. Children who suffer the most easily from this flu, this type of flu... You all have children... Well, not all in the Saeima, but one part. Those who vote against every child... Do you not feel sorry for your children? I really... 400 schools are closed to us. We all want to make it in our country? Obviously, the goal is to destroy everything: transit is destroyed, the roads are destroyed, the students are also being destroyed, the children's training is also... Let's just get worse, let's just get worse in our country. Are you paying for it? Apparently you are those globalists pay. Or, you've just been so impressed with that stealing mania... But it's over. I have to repeat to you, dear friends, to steal, enough! Run! You will also be caught if you don't escape. Stop torture the children! You want to sit at that Bureau in those scafandroes - sit at the scafandrobs Office, but leave our children alone! Put things on top of your children, but put the others in peace. Let us, as free people, live in a free country! And if you don't allow me, we'll punish you -- sooner or later -- you're very harsh. I recall that crimes against humanity are not prescription. We'll find you sooner or later. Do you imagine that you will always be in power? That's not gonna happen. At one time it meant “Latvia’s way”, at the time it meant “The People’s Party”... Who else did not think that he would always be in power. The Communists also thought so. You're acting like Communists, by the way. Even when the monument of Gunar Astra was unveiled, you behaved like a Communist, making his brother stand behind the fence... with all the codes. The last moment you've seen is. You think you buy TV and radio advertising campaigns, where you will invest our taxpayers' money, to win elections just because you have an artificial face... SKDS or other surveys now show you some ratings that you will win. I advise you to go talk to ordinary people, then you will see what the true rating is for all of you - power, for all of those 49 who vote 'no'... or 50... everyone sitting in the Bureau with or without scafands. What'd you just put on one round? Put on another five! And what kind of people are you listening to? Wouldn’t it be time to realize that all trojanski, rebels, and like ones have made a total mistake all the time? And if they were wrong about what they had said earlier, is that not what they said about masks and everything else? Of course it does. Run! It's high time to run away, the last months. Run until you can get away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U60	Mr Pucene, will you say 'no' to the inclusion of the draft decision on the agenda of the Saeima's next sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U61	Yes, I will speak against.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U62	Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U63	Hello, dear colleagues! I will say 'no' because this item on the agenda... this draft decision had to be examined several weeks ago, because we see that children are not carrying... does not suffer from this disease so severely. They are not so sick, so to speak, and these moves of the government are incomprehensible, because in reality the situation is completely different. These children meet after school, and they still have contact with them. I would like to emphasise that all Latvian parents know: the Member who objected to this issue is Juris Pūce from Development/About! . Listeners, citizens, come to this Member when he wants to suppress our children! This issue must be resolved immediately. And I have a suggestion. I have just seen a study that best protect myself from the coronavirus by wearing FP2 masks and tights. Maybe in our Bureau... must we take an example? People, I call for this matter to be dealt with as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U64	So Mr Gobzems spoke about, Mr Pucens spoke against the draft decision “On the task for the Cabinet of Ministers to abolish the requirement to carry children a mask” on the agenda of the next sitting of the Saeima. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft decision “On task for the Cabinet of Ministers to remove the requirement for children to wear masks” on the agenda of the next sitting! Please vote mode! For - 37, for - 45, for - 4. The draft decision is not on the agenda of the next sitting of the Saeima. Do Members have proposals to hand over the relevant own-initiative proposal to one of the parliamentary committees? Mr Možville, you have the floor on the proposal for a Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U65	Hello! I have a proposal to direct this draft decision to the Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption Commission, where we are looking at all these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U66	Thank you. Mrs Papules, the word for your proposal on the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U67	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have a proposal to direct the Education, Culture and Science Commission to decide on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U68	So we have two proposals for two commissions. We will vote in the order of motions. Let us first vote on the proposal to refer this draft decision to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Please vote mode! For - 30, for - 47, for - 3. So the draft decision is not passed on to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption. Members proposed that the draft decision be referred to the Education, Culture and Science Commission. Please vote mode Please vote mode! On - 34, against - 44, refraining - 4. Thus, the draft decision is not transferred to the Education, Culture and Science Commission. This own-initiative proposal is therefore rejected. The next item is the own-initiative proposal submitted by Members Karina Sprūde, Māra Možvillo, Ramona Petraviča, Lubova Švekova, Armanda Krauze, Alda Gobzema, Julia Stepanenko, Ieva Krapāne, Kaspars Ģirgens and Ralfa Nemiro - Draft decision on the task of the Cabinet of Ministers to abolish and repay applied fines for non-use of facial masks. Does any Member object to the examination of this own-initiative proposal at this parliamentary sitting? So, yes, Members have objected to the system. One Member may speak in favour, one may speak against the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of the Saeima's next sitting. So Members do not want to speak. So, please, let's vote... Mr Gobzem, it was time to apply. Let's assume you're driving in the car and maybe this signal comes slower. You want to talk about whether or not to include the Saeima on the agenda for the next sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U69	‘For’.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U70	'About' - the name of Member Aldim Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U71	I will speak shorter on this issue for a very simple reason. So in any case, absolutely all people who have been fined for not wearing facial masks or any other punishments related to allegedly these “infringements” in the last two years and which this criminal regime has applied... they will be abolished for a very simple reason... because analogous penalties are not imposed on Bordan, Minister of Justice, President Levit, who does not wear masks at public events. ‘ One law is one truth for all.” Minister of the Interior Golubeva, among other things, did not wear mask at the last meeting of the Cabinet. There is no penalty for her 1500 or how much for the euro, because she is a position Member, she is not a member of the opposition Gobzem. So that “one law – one truth” means it... We have precedents - Levit, Bordan, Golubeva, who do not receive any penalties for wearing their face masks... It will have a legal basis. Also when you are punished, dear people, respond to these examples, do not be afraid to appeal... Appeal before the court, give these examples... publicly our senior officials, who are not punishing the wearing of facial masks as dramatically as you are. All the penalties... In any case, Gobzem will come to power and the party “For each and every one” will abolish the fines imposed on each and every one of them in full and repay them from the state budget. Then they will recover from all this criminal regime, personally they will recover from those people who have harmed the Republic of Latvia during these two years. Very dramatic attitude will be towards all those who have harmed every small business, every larger business, every person, every person's health and who have forced vaccination - all of these people will have to respond to the law. It's just a matter of time. Do not be afraid, men, that they are still trying to do something in the last agony. That's about to end their time. It's like the Soviet Union collapsed. They asked for some kind of victims, they asked for you to be restricted in some way, to be hit by stacks or something like that... Flee at the Freedom Monument and so on, laughing at you. In Soviet times, the opposition was also imposed in psychiatric hospitals and where it was not. Sending them to Siberia, weighing others as we know, unfortunately others were shot as well, but that is the political fight. This regime is also coming to its end. You don't feel that? I feel it completely. I feel this when I go anywhere where I meet ordinary people of Latvia. It is quite clear that this regime will soon end and that people will have to respond to it, but no one will forget it. And they shall answer very hard, and they shall answer them very cruelly before the law. The law will be harsh against them, just as they were harsh against the fate of people in Latvia. That's why they're afraid of Gobzem, for example. So they're gonna close him out of the sittings. Because they think they're gonna get tired... that will take away the money or something else. Yeah, it's the price for the fight for changes in the country. Unfortunately, someone has to pay the price. But all these penalties will be abolished. And all who have punished shall be punished themselves. It's happening in life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U72	Mrs Strude, you wanted to talk about whether or not to include the draft decision on the agenda of the Saeima's next sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U73	I will say 'no'.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U74	The word 'no' - Member Karina Sprūdė.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U75	It is today that I would like to say why I will speak against. I can't understand why we're all spending time now. Why are we not responding to the expert... on statistics... to our experience... what is happening in the neighbouring countries. We have a lot of evidence that for us Inga Spriņģe made a very good study... Today, I just wanted to talk about one of these studies. For example, on 18 May 2021 there was already a very good study - what is happening in the Baltic States. Well, for example, what else did this study show? That the number of penalties applied for breach of Covid-19 restrictions from January to May 2021 in Estonia was only 24 penalties - 24! For example, in Latvia there were 26 406. I think we should respond. It's not a difference, one percent, ten percent, that's... Well, the numbers are thousands, the 10 thousand difference. Something should be done. Why didn't we do that one year ago? It's not clear. The other thing I wanted to mention. In Estonia, people were punished just... could only be punished by the health authority, it is the centre of disease control in Estonia, and it could only be punished for breach of restrictions. The police were rarely involved, as the belief that it was more effective to give the offender a mask than to punish him for not wearing it. Well, very logical. In general, everything is very human. But we started our pandemic fight with the fact that our homes... The poor could not buy masks at all, because there were speculations and until these speculations were resolved... These masks were also expensive. We are talking about the fact that some people had to stand at the urn to get some used mask and enter the store, and we punished them for that. We punished people a lot and a lot... with large penalties. People couldn't work, but we punished them. People couldn't get paid. They can't go to work, they can't go to training, they can't go to the hairdresser. They have to pay for electricity. But we punish them, and we punish them, that there is no mask on the nose. And where's the logic? For example, if you meet people at Alpha, you have a penalty of 30 euros, a penalty at the Central Market of 1000 euros. Explain, well, there's gotta be some kind of system! I had the experience of working in an administrative commission, there was some system, such as a man, one infringer... There's a warning, there's a conversation... If for a long time... A man doesn't reap grass for ten years, okay... But what are we doing? What are we based on? All of us now come from the Cabinet of Ministers and worry about the fact that statistics are produced from chronically ill... But you know that members of the opposition have been saving for two years, collecting a large amount of paper on statistics, on how the community's sick are diagnosed, on how statistics and panic have been produced, and we are continuing to request information to date. We're not doing this because we have a lot of free time, we're sitting at home, no. We know that you violate human rights. And every person has the right to be a citizen of Latvia and a non-citizen... There must be some foundation written in the Constitution - both free movement, free speech, thinking, expression. Why do we punish people? You make mistakes, and you understand that now. Looking for the guy to write down everything. Yes, we can, of course,... All the people are not so naive, but they realize that this Nikitta Trojanskis, a very young boy, was written down, but you, the people who made the decisions to punish... They have names, surnames, they sit in the Cabinet. No matter how you try to hide them, there will now be names and surnames known to people. I call for support for this draft decision and for the abolition of penalties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U76	Thank you. I would remind you that Member Gobzem spoke of the inclusion of the draft decision on the agenda of the Saeima's next sitting and Member Sprūde spoke about the inclusion of the draft decision on the agenda of the Saeima's next sitting. The decision must be taken by vote. We will vote for the draft decision “On task of lifting and repaying the imposed fines for non-use of facial masks”! Please vote mode! We will vote for the draft decision to be included on the agenda of the Saeima's next sitting! Please vote mode! For - 22, for - 48, for - 3. The draft decision is not on the agenda of the next sitting of the Saeima. Do Members have a proposal to include the own-initiative proposal in question... by handing over to one of the Saeima commissions? Mr. Gobzem, you have a name. Mr. Gobzem, you're not in the system. Apparently, Mr Gobzem has left outside the Internet reception area. Other Members have not applied to refer the draft decision to the Commission, so this own-initiative proposal has been rejected. Mrs. Scratch, it's too late. Dear colleagues, The next section of the agenda to be discussed at the sitting of the Saeima shall be ‘Conclusion of the election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, trust or distrust’. On the agenda - draft decision “On the dismissal of Jeanette Vēvere of the judge of Riga regional court from the office of a judge”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U77	Dear President, Dear colleagues, During the meeting of the Legal Commission on 22 January, the draft decision “On the dismissal of Jeanette Vēvere from the position of judge of Riga Regional Court” was reviewed. The members of the Commission unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I am inviting to release Žaneta Vēvere, a judge of the Riga Regional Court of February 28, 2022, from the office of a judge at his own wish due to his retirement pension.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U78	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the dismissal of the judge Jeanette Vēvere from the office of judge of Riga Regional Court! Please vote mode! For - 84, for - no, for - 1. Decision adopted. On the agenda of the next sitting of the Saeima is the draft decision “On the dismissal of Aija Mikelsone, a judge of Vidzeme district court from the office of a judge”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U79	During the meeting of the Legal Commission on 22 January, the draft decision “On the dismissal of Aija Mikelsone, a judge of Vidzeme district court from the office of a judge” was reviewed. The members of the Commission unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I invite Aija Miķelsoni, a judge of Vidzeme district court, to be released from office of a judge at his own wish due to his retirement pension.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U80	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On Release of Aija Mikelsone, a judge of Vidzeme district court from the office of a judge”! Please vote mode! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. The next part of the sitting of the Saeima - "Review of draft laws". The second reading of the draft law on programme management for the European Union's Cohesion Policy objective "European territorial cooperation" (Interreg) 2021-2027. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U81	Dear Chairman and colleagues of the Saeima sitting! The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission examined before the second, final, reading draft law No. 1283/Lp13. In total, 17 proposals have been received, mainly from the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development or the representatives of the Law Bureau. The proposals are mainly of a editorial or technical nature to ensure better legibility and terminology accuracy. Let us start examining the proposals. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable, specify the title of the law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U82	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U83	2. - The proposal of Parliamentary Secretary Zamur. It provides for clarification of the terms and definitions used by law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U84	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U85	3. - The proposal of Parliamentary Secretary Zamur. _Other Organiser the new term ‘project file’ and its definition. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U86	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U87	4. - also the proposal of Parliamentary Secretary Zamur. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U88	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U89	5. - The proposal of Parliamentary Secretary Zamur. Also of a editorial nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U90	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U91	6. - The proposal of Parliamentary Secretary Zamur. It is also editorial. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U92	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U93	7. - The proposal of Parliamentary Secretary Zamur. It's also editorial. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U94	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U95	8 / 8 - The proposal of Parliamentary Secretary Zamur. Technically. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U96	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U97	Nine are also involved. - The proposal of Parliamentary Secretary Zamur. Technically. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U98	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U99	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of Parliamentary Secretary Zamur. Explanation of the editorial nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U100	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U101	11. - The proposal of Parliamentary Secretary Zamur. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U102	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U103	12. - The proposal of Parliamentary Secretary Zamur. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U104	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U105	13. - The proposal of Parliamentary Secretary Zamur. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U106	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U107	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of Parliamentary Secretary Zamur. Editative clarification. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U108	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U109	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - also the proposal of Parliamentary Secretary Zamur. Technical, appropriate references shall be included. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U110	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U111	16. - The proposal of Parliamentary Secretary Zamur. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U112	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U113	Final - 17. - also the proposal of Parliamentary Secretary Zamur. Article 20 of the draft law is foreseen to be excluded, as in proposal 8, we already supported the agreed language of the programme. The Commission was therefore supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U114	Members support proposal 17.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U115	Therefore, colleagues, we have examined all the proposals. The Commission generally supported the progress of this draft law in the second, final, reading session of the Saeima. I call on you to do so, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U116	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second final reading of the draft law on programme management for the European Union's Cohesion Policy objective "European territorial cooperation" (Interreg) 2021-2027! Please vote mode! For - 83, for - no, for - 1. The law is passed. The next item is the draft law on the automatic recognition of higher education qualifications, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member Atis Lejiņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U117	Thank you. Highly honored Head of the Saeima sitting! Members! The Foreign Affairs Commission received only one proposal, which concerns the title of the law. It is therefore a technical proposal. The law is entitled ‘Treaty on the Automatic Recognition of Higher Education Qualifications’, but the proposal suggests that it should be worded as follows: ‘The Treaty on the Automatic Recognition of Higher Education Qualifications’. And that was something we unanimously supported in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U118	Members support the proposal of the Legal Bureau.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U119	Thank you. I call for my support for the draft law at final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U120	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the second, final reading of the draft law on the automatic recognition of higher education qualifications! Please vote mode! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law in the second, final, reading has been supported, and the law adopted. On the agenda of the next meeting – draft law “On the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Denmark, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of National Defence of Canada and the Canadian Armed Forces, the Minister of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Supreme Command of Europe on the activities, composition, financing, administration and support of the Multinational Division Headquarters “North””. Draft law at second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U121	Madam President, I have a very respectful sitting. At its meeting on 9 February, the Foreign Affairs Commission examined draft law No. 1236/Lp13 for second reading. Two proposals were received for the second reading. Both proposals are interrelated. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Legal, technical editorial clarification. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U122	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U123	2. - also a proposal from the Legal Office. As I said, it is about the proposal that has already been approved. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U124	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U125	We have therefore examined all the proposals that have been tabled. On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U126	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on draft law on the support of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Denmark, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the National Defence Department of Canada and the Canadian Armed Forces, the Minister of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain, the Ministry of Defence of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Supreme Command of Europe on the activities, composition, financing, administration and support of the Multinational Division Headquarters “North” in the second, final reading! Please vote mode! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The law is passed. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax, third reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Jānis Cielēns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U127	Hello, honourable leader of the Saeima sitting! Dear colleagues, At its meeting on 2 February, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission examined and prepared for consideration at the Saeima’s sitting the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” (No. 1191/Lp13) for the third reading. One proposal from the Legal Office was received at the third reading. The proposal is very technical. While the draft law was in the Saeima, the law has been amended and the numbers of the transitional regulations contained in the draft law need to be clarified. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U128	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U129	The Commission unanimously supported this draft law. On behalf of the Commission, I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U130	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax". Please vote mode! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda of the next sitting – draft law “Law on Good Will Compensation for the Jewish Community of Latvia”, third reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U131	Madam President, Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, We are looking at the draft law “Law on Good Will Compensation for the Jewish Community of Latvia” at third reading. We have received 33 proposals. The applicant has been both Jānis Dombrava... a lot of proposals, Mr. Kirstein... Proposal, National Association, Legal Office, Minister Reirs. We looked all over. There was a wide-ranging debate and finally we adopted the law at third reading. Maybe let's start looking at all the proposals in turn. 1. - Mr Kirštein's proposal. Associated with the name of the law. The proposal was not supported by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U132	We launched a debate on proposal 1. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U133	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Honourable Members! My proposal is because the current title of the law is absolutely untruthful. It is not an act of good will, it is not returned to the Jewish community of Latvia, because about two thirds of this only society is arrived from former republics of the USSR, mostly from Russia, and it is not returned, this property is also not returned to all Jews, for example to the same “ŠAMIR” society. Look further. I think I have made a rather political proposal, because perhaps it would be better to write "forced"... So my proposal is "forced payment". There's nothing to pretend about. For 30 years Latvia has been addressing these issues, and we are constantly blackmailed from various international Jewish organizations, where these Jews from Russia complain that they do not give back the Jews of Latvia or the believer of Moses... political correction can be said to be Jewish property because the persecution of the Jews did not take place on an ethnic basis, but on a religious basis, which, by the way, is dealt with in this law. You could name this draft law on the blackmail payment to the Jewish community for the property that was not returned to the Soviet occupation during the 47 years, because it has not been returned by the Soviet regime, not by anything, let's say, there... The State of Latvia or something else. It should also be recognised here that it is not, in any case, a payment of good will, as I said, and the Communist property could actually have been returned for 47 years, because let's remember, between 1940 and 1990... The German occupation lasted only for about three years and four months, so it would not be right and could not agree with the video of the Minister of Justice, Youtube, where he says that the Nazis took away all their property. It is completely wrong and foolish people because, first of all, “on the land of Latvia”, as the Minister of Justice says here, Jews were destroyed. It was in fact, de facto, Ostland, not Latvia. You see, if we say “on the land of Latvia”, then the word “land” does not understand. For example, people living abroad understand that in Latvia, and indirectly so we seem to take some blame. Therefore, once again, I could also say: “The payment of good will from Russia to the Jewish Society for the decongested property of the Communists to the Latvian Moses believers”, but let it now remain. I think I've written some political corrections. I call for support. And here we may prevent... Even if we write that it is a forced property, there would be no problem, of course, for the President of Latvia not to sign it and for the next Saeima to refuse it if it is accepted, because there is a mistake here. For example, the annotation refers to the Teresin Declaration, not saying that there is no word in the Teresin Declaration about the deprived property of the Communists. Then there are such foolish things that the state and local government of Latvia, not the Jewish community, benefited. In the Constitution we have only Latvian people, there is no Jewish community, the Latvian people are all citizens, including Jews. Jews also benefited from the unrecovered property. So here is already a plain false annotation written. Mr. Bordan has already been mentioned. And there is no Jewish nation here either. The Jewish people are all over the world. There are only Latvians and ethnic communities in Latvia, let's say... whether they are ethnic groups of the population. If we're talking about the world... The Jewish people, then again - we must follow the religious principle because... I would advise the writers of this law to see a book published by the University of Kansas, called Hitler's Jewish Soldiers. From this book, we can find out that about 45 thousand soldiers of Jewish origin in the war vortex - at the end of the war. They were not deprived of any property. And here are a variety of interviews, by Brian Mark Rigg, who has interviewed many outstanding Jewish officers like admirals...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U134	Mr. Kirstein, time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U135	I'd like to combine...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U136	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U137	So this book has a great interview... and also described such careers... As a feldmarsal Erhard Milh, who received the Condor Division Commander for the Norwegian Battle, who was sent by Hitler to Marshal Franco, Helmut Wilberg, the admiral Paul Asker, admiral Bernhard Roge, who received the Brunisic Cross. And the greatest joke is that in 1939 the Nazis printed a poster for the ideal German soldier - in reality, he is! This soldier lived more than 100 years, died... a few months ago... just in our YouTube and all the news you could see, read... He lived for over 100 years. His name is Werner Goldberg, and by origin he is a Hebrew. Poster name - “ideal German soldier”. Why do I say all this? By this I want to show that the Jews are neither better nor worse than the Germans nor the Finns... in which Jews fought Stalin and Bolsheviks... Not for Latvians... in which people fought on both sides. And it is extremely useless to highlight some one chosen nation in this way, opposed to the whole of Latvia's Constitution as such. That is why I am calling for my proposal to be supported so that we do not become embarrassed. I call for support to be given to this title of “forced payment”, so that the President of Latvia has no problem with sending it back or with electing it, say, for the second term, because the President of Latvia declared in his own time that he was in no way... A few years ago he announced that he would never support such a law, because these issues have been resolved for a long time. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U138	Dear Members, Honourable Members! It is time for the current parliamentary break, so we will continue the debate on this proposal after the break. Only registration of the presence of Members. Registration has been successful. So we're back to the Saeima sitting after the break, at 13:30. Thank you. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U139	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! We shall continue the sitting of the Saeima on 10 February 2022. We continue to work on the draft law “Law on Good Will Compensation for the Jewish Community of Latvia”. We are following the debate on 1. - Mr Kirstein's proposal. Name to Member Aigar Bikšem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U140	Hello, honourable leader of the Saeima sitting! Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, Commissioner Kirštein's proposal changes the substance and meaning of the law, in my view. This proposal seeks to distort, suppress and conceal the purpose of the law. I would like to remind you that during the Holocaust Latvia lost four percent of its citizens. Among them are thousands of competent industrialists, traders, craftsmen, financiers, hundreds of doctors, educators, artists and lawyers. Among those killed there were almost a thousand participants in the struggle for freedom of Latvia - the Lacples War Order and the three Star Order cavaliers. These were people who had proved their loyalty to the state of Latvia and for whom the state of Latvia had expressed its appreciation. But today, when we decide on compensation, we, the state of Latvia, will not pay compensation for this colossal crime against humanity. We do not compensate for the pain or foolish fate that struck these people at that tragic period of history. Compensation is granted for the properties that these people owned and now these properties are owned by the Latvian State. Some of my friends, neighbours, ask: Why do we have to pay such compensation? I can say that if you had a small summer house and a small land platter, because the family of all the neighbors and relatives to whom it belonged, someone who would have killed them bloodily, killed all children, women, girls... no official relative anymore, and the property is now in your hands... then one day ex-neighbourly remote relatives who do not have a legal basis on this property ask you to compensate for the value of this property, not because you would be guilty of what has happened, but because the property is now owned by you, and these people say that with this money they will support the remote relatives of the killed people and bring together the memory of the survivors. Would you really not want to close the bills once and for all with terrible history? Would you really not want to get up and lie down with this story about how this property is made and leave this story to your children and grandchildren? I wouldn't. In my opinion, this law concludes the bills with the past - and not because we would be responsible for this, but because we have inherited this land from our ancestors - with all the nodes, including the nodes of pain and abuse, which are in the hands of foreign powers. In my opinion, it is our duty, as owners of our land, to divide, not to make these nodes even more difficult. I therefore ask my colleagues not to support this proposal, which I believe is trying to lead us away from the clarity and purpose of the draft law. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U141	I closed the debate. Please, Mr Bondara, what will you say on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U142	Thank you, Madam President. The proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U143	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Mr Kirstein's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, 15, 52, abstaining. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U144	2. - That's Mr Dombrava's proposal. Also related to the title of the bill. This proposal was not supported by the Commission either.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U145	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Janis Dombrava. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U146	Dear colleagues, I would like to start by quoting from the book Salom, Siberia! which summarises the Latvian Jewish memory stories of the repression by the Soviet Union. At the time of dispatch Silva Haitin, a Latvian citizen, was nine years old, says: “I remember a Latvian woman with a baby on the floor of a wagon. She had been sitting for three days, squeezing, and grooming. She had a baby in her body. There were many children in the wagon, and we asked her to let her play with a little baby. Then it turned out that her baby's been dead a long time ago... She didn't have milk. Then someone said it to the mercenaries. We were sorry to throw the baby away... They came in, took the baby out of her arms, and threw the glue out behind her leg. The train started to move, the door was open... She had no reaction. I remember Mom told her that she obviously lost her mind if she hadn't responded once when she threw her baby... “ It was a memory story of small girls - Jewish Latvian girls who experienced these terrible events with one Latvian family at the time. During the Second World War and 45 years after the war, Latvia was one of the countries hardest hit. Two totalitarian regimes have broken the fate of countless families. Latvian citizens were murdered in Central Prison, Rumbula, Baltezer, Biķernieki and elsewhere. Thousands were arrested, summits in wagons, and deported to Siberia. A healthy generation of young men were illegally summoned by two totalitarian regimes in the troops and remained in the battlefields forever. Those people... and the family... who, after the war, resisted the occupation regime, were murdered or tortured in the Czech home. The lives of countless families were damaged. The Federal Republic of Germany should be held guilty of these crimes as heirs of the rights and obligations of the USSR as Nazi Germany and the Russian Federation. After restoration of independence, Latvia has, as far as possible, ensured the protection of the interests of all persons politically oppressed by Latvia, regardless of their ethnic origin. However, at present, the majority of the Saeima is directing the adoption of a draft law which will actually recognise that only one ethnic group has been affected. More specifically, a group of people who claim to represent the whole ethnic group. The question is: does Latvia have to take responsibility for the crimes committed by two criminal regimes? The majority of the Saeima, at least after the first and second readings, considers that there is. I believe that many of the Members of the Saeima are not indifferent to this issue. If Members of the Saeima are willing to make good the damage caused to the victims of totalitarian regimes, please give support to those who are politically oppressed, including the Jews of Latvia - everyone, not to some! At the moment, there is an opportunity to vote for a conceptual change of the law, providing that all these Latvian people - politically oppressed - will receive a reward. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U147	I closed the debate. Please, Mr Bondar, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U148	In the Commission, proposal 2 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U149	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Dombrava's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U150	3. - Dombrava's proposal. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U151	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Janis Dombrava. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U152	It is very sad to me to see that the majority of the Saeima does not want to make it clear that you will treat all those who are being persecuted equally - without any racial or ethnic differences. More! I believe that the draft law-makers from Development/Par! has submitted the very, very misleading title of the draft law – “Law on the Compensation of Good Will to the Jewish Community of Latvia” – saying that this is a compensation of good will to the Jewish community of Latvia, while at the same time providing for the payment of this money to a particular foundation, not... Something mystic... The whole Jewish community of Latvia, because it is simply impossible to do this, because there is no consensus among the organisations of the Jewish community of Latvia, and it was also clearly marked at the meeting of the commission. So you can't lie and you can't say that this is a reward for the whole Jewish community of Latvia. As I have already said, the draft law is now designed to pay this money to one foundation, which, according to the Register of Enterprises, is led by three persons - Dmitri Krupņikov, Vladimir Fogel and Leonid Kihl. Taking into account that the Saeima has repeatedly adopted various draft decisions, the name of which is used by the names of different persons (e.g. Alexey Navalny or Savchenko... name, surname), then, too, it would be right not to lie here! At least those who support a cube of this bill - this law does not provide for compensation to be paid to the victims of repression or to the entire Jewish community. The draft law, as advocated at first and second readings, provides for this money to be paid to a narrow group of people - to be more precise, one foundation chaired by three persons. I therefore call for such a proposal to be supported if you considered it unnecessary to make it clear and clear that this compensation is payable to all those who are being persecuted - without ethnic differences.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U153	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U154	Dear President, Honourable Members of the Saeima! I can't say much. I think Mr Bikše described the situation very well. I could agree with him at all, just... he did not say one thing: the law must be precise and cannot in any way distort concepts. In other words, the property was not taken away, as I said, from the caric Russia, from Germany on an ethnic basis, but only on a religious basis. And Latvia has given up and has no problem giving back their property to Latvian religious organizations, churches, associations - hospitals, churches, synagogues and so on. And I don't think that there is any religious property that the State of Latvia would like to retain to the faith of Moses. So here we must be precise, we must not deviate from precise terminology. Now... Why should they be returned? Should they be returned to the ethnic Jews, or should they be returned to the Jews? In 1935, Germany adopted so-called Nuremberg laws, which led to Latvia and other occupied countries, because German troops or various penal units that repressed people, economic organisations that tried to confiscate something there - they didn't know who the Jews were there, which was not the Jews; all happened when they looked at the documents registered in the synagogues. I'm looking at the Nürnberg law. It is very simple to say that if all four of the grandparents are Jews, then the man is subject to persecution, as he says. If Moses is only one believer, then he is recognized as a foreigner and protected. If there are two of Moses’ believers, he will see who his parents are. If they do not go to the synagogue, he also belongs to the outsides and no repression takes place. In the same book, as I said, Brian Mark Riga has a precise quote. Then when Hitler came to power, the Nazis began to make various remarks about the fact that the German encampment of the First World War... And after the war several hundred thousand... the Jewish soldiers, of whom... Most of them were Jews, or Moses ’ believers, and then General Deimling wrote a report that he sent to the Vermaht’s general government, where the words (I quote) were: “To thousands of Jews went to war on a voluntary basis. Remember that thousands of heroes died in death as their fatherland, thousands became maims for the rest of their lives. In my body, the Jews fought as courageously as their Christian companions, and many of them I presented the Iron Cross.” You see, there's not even said, "Germans; they "fighted as bold as"... not as Germans, but as Christians. So this dividing line goes between Christians and the Jews. And you should remember that. And now let's think about why these concepts are mixed here. Very simple. So if we mix these concepts, then the Communists who could not have been... Let's say they didn't recognize Judaism... to which everyone had some... or called 'Jews'... of course are eligible for the old Latvian fence property. In any case, they are referred to as Jews in legislation. And the law seems to give those properties back to some mystical Jewish community, although there was no community here before the war, there were different game organizations and there were different political... Let's say, the right and left organizations, and only the left called themselves Jews. The Jews were, by the way, Hasaris. If we look at the Jewish little encyclopedia (Jevrejskai encyclopedia), which is translated into Russian ( 12 volumes), it is said that, for example, Hasars... That's, Karaims, forgiveness... Karaim is a Jewish sect who was expelled from Palestine because they did not recognize the second part of the Hebrew Scriptures - Talmud, that is, they recognized the Torah - the Old Testament. Please combine with two minutes more...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U155	Yes, your times are united. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U156	So the soldiers out of Palestine who were the real Jews (Hebrew)... and to Mr Bikše, I would recommend that I look at the Encyclopædia Britannica, where it is explained in detail that the Hebrew - these are Palestinian Jews, and there is the origin of this word, that is, "the ones who live behind the Euphrates". And yews or Jews - they are believers, regardless of their ethnic background. That's something we need to remember. So - these soldiers were evicted, much of them lived in Crimea, mixed, of course, partly with the Turks, but kept their Judaism branch, now called the Karaim religion. And the Lithuanian Grand Duke, Vitaut, counted a great deal in his camp. And, as you know, there's a Traķi village near Vilnius, where during the war the Germans were banned from wearing their finger. Latvia had Mikepars - tobacco factory, a millionaire... No property was given to him by the Germans. The Russian Jews, in turn, are hassars; it is a kaganate of the people of the Tjurks of Pievolga - the Hasars - which was destroyed by the Scandinavians of Kiev. In Kiev, already in the 10th century, there was a spider in the gems... They have nothing to do with the Jews. And then here... The name that Mr Dombrava has presented is much more precise. He shows exactly who the money would then be counted, because those who claim to be Jews are, in principle, most of the Hasars who have come from Russia. And they want to get compensation in some way for the Jewish or Latvian forest property, as the politicians call... We call what we want... or the property of Moses ’ believers. Therefore, I would remind you that let us now be correct, let us not confuse the concepts of the law so that the President of Latvia is not ashamed to sign this law. And so let's not tell the story that some Jews are given their property! They are not returned because they do not have to be returned to any soldiers, as I said, because no one gave them property. We can talk only about the properties taken away by the Jews of Latvia. And so the name must be accurate - show who the money will then be credited. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U157	Name to Member Janis Butan. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U158	Hello, colleagues! I would like to oppose my colleagues - the previous speakers - and disagree with this proposal and say that the cost of funding is reserved for these three parties only. If we look at the proposal in the table, then... The following are the proposal of Minister of Finance Reira, proposal 31 on the arrangements for the payment of funds. As we know, at first... the principal financial means shall be deposited with the Treasury. In turn, the disbursement takes place in accordance with the established procedure, which is developed by this fund and is coordinated with the Ministry of Finance. So the financial resources are paid for certain projects, so the whole Jewish community. There will be arrangements for applying for these funds and how they can be used, how they will be monitored. Moreover, the disbursement of funds as such does not occur if it is not decided in the annual state budget. So to claim that any kind of allocation of funds to three particular persons... and that, therefore, the law should be named after these three persons - these are absolute lies. In my opinion, this discussion on the proposal in question is unconstructive. I call for a debate on the relevant proposals on the modalities of the disbursement of funds, not on this proposal. And I call for this proposal to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U159	Name to Member Janis Dombrava for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U160	However, I would like to point out that Mr Bhutan has not read this proposal carefully. No one is saying that the funds will only be paid to these three mentioned gentlemen... The proposal provides that the title of the law is changed to ‘the payment of funds to the foundation headed by Dmitri Krupņikov, Vladimir Fogel and Leonid Fill’. Well, tell me what's wrong here? The funds - according to at least the first and second readings - will be paid to the foundation led by these three persons and not to the Jewish community of Latvia. It is an absolute lie - to say that funds will be paid to the whole Jewish community of Latvia. Who can define it at all? Who could tell which organisation, for example, represents all Latvians living in Latvia? Who can say that? The following proposal has therefore been tabled: However, Mr Bhutan obviously did not understand the deeper. It's grossly unfair - to make legislation that prefers... where, under the same conditions, the gypsy living in Latvia (Roma) or Latvians have been oppressed... Granting a specific advantage to one ethnic group only to receive aid: it is a form of discrimination and such cases should not be supported. If, however, you want to move forward with this draft law, then say openly: there is no mythical Jewish community in Latvia to which the funds will now be transferred; these funds will be transferred to a three-person foundation.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U161	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mr. Bondar... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U162	In the Commission, proposal 3 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U163	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - Member Dombravas's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U164	Proposals 4 and 5 relate to the purpose and tasks of the law, both of which come from the Member Dombrava. In the Commission, proposal 4 was not supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U165	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Janis Dombrava. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U166	Article ‘The purpose and purpose of the Law’. I call for an examination of the first paragraph of this article. What is now... In its original version, it is said that Latvia is not responsible for the repression implemented, but at the same time... It is not really clear why we are now taking responsibility and actually making this financial cost. My proposal is to make it clear who is responsible for these repressions, so that sometime in the future, when there will be enough political will and strength, we can make demands on these countries very clear about this funding, which we have foreseen with the adoption of this law. So my offer is to say that: "This law aims to be based on the fact that the Federal Republic of Germany, as heirs of the rights and obligations of the Soviet Socialist Republic, is responsible for the mass destruction and deportation of the population during the occupation of Latvia, the nationalisation of property and restrictions on human rights. This law eliminates the historic unjust consequences of the Soviet Communist and Nazi totalitarian regimes in the territory of Latvia.” It is clear and clear to say who is responsible, and then also potentially to send an invoice to Germany and Russia, which have officially said that they are the heirs of the commitments and rights of these two totalitarian regimes. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U167	I closed the debate. Mr Bondara, please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U168	In the Commission, proposal 4 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U169	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - Dombrava's proposal! Please, let's vote! - 15, 56, abstaining - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U170	5. - Dombrava's proposal. This concerns objectives and objectives. The Commission was not supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U171	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Janis Dombrava. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U172	The proposal 2 therefore had the opportunity to vote in favour of clarifying the title of the law. In theory, the law may remain under the name it was originally supported, which is not precise, but it does not change the fact that the very text of the law may have a completely different and much broader nature. This proposal is also related to a number of future proposals, which provide for a clear and clear definition that these funds are to be paid to all persons who are politically oppressed in Latvia, including to investigate the repressions that have taken place against the political oppressors of Latvia... and so on. We have enough members of the Saeima, politicians, local government Members, who often remember before the elections our political oppressors, go with beautiful, noble speeches - to say, for example, in Ikškile and elsewhere - so I really turn to these people: if you do not, however, support the fact that this law would apply to all the political oppressors of Latvia, it is not necessary to lie that our allies would like such discrimination to take place on the basis of ethnic characteristics. We, the Saeima, can make a clear decision that this law applies to all the political oppressors of Latvia, and that would be fair. Therefore, I really call on you to vote in favour of this proposal and future proposals, so I think that every Member of the other political groups will also be able to look into the political oppressors and not to avoid them, not to try to tell them why you believe that their suffering is less valuable than the suffering of one other ethnic group, which was in exactly the same circumstances - as I quoted at the beginning of the book, where there was a memory story from the experiencing deportations of the Communist regime. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U173	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mr Bondar!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U174	In the Commission, proposal 5 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U175	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - Dombrava's proposal! Please, let's vote! -17, against -54, refrains - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U176	The next three proposals are related to Article 3 of the law and are related to the reimbursement of good will... the total amount of reimbursement and the arrangements for payment. 6. - also the proposal from Member Dombrava. The Commission was not supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U177	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Janis Dombrava. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U178	So proposals 6, 7 and 8 offer to actually remove the fact that these EUR 40 million are transferred to a private foundation led by three persons (as I have already said, you can check it in the Register of Enterprises), but instead this amount of money is shown in the state budget as specially earmarked funds for the political oppressors of Latvia. And then there is your choice, Members of the Saeima, whether you see that this money - the 6th proposal is intended - would be diverted to the State Culture Capital Fund, which would further administer the cost of these funds; the 7th proposal proposes that this money be paid for various purposes through the Society Integration Fund; the 8th proposal provides that if you so wish, this money will not be transferred through these state institutions, but transferred to the Latvian Politically Repressed Association, whose reputation I think no one is in doubt, they will use these funds in good faith and responsibly. But so this proposal, 6 and I will remind you again, intends to create a special state budget programme for the politically oppressed and to implement this cost through the State Culture Capital Fund. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U179	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mr. Bondar... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U180	In the Commission, proposal 6 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U181	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - Member Dombravas's proposal! Please, let's vote! - 15, 56, abstaining - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U182	7. - Also the proposal by John Dombrava. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U183	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Janis Dombrava. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U184	Yeah, I'll remind you again. This proposal provides that the funds will not be paid to the Latvian Jewish community resituation fund, which is a private foundation, but will be paid through the Society Integration Fund. Perhaps this proposal is better than the previous one, because it removes any suspicion that the National Association could somehow have a negative impact on the cost of these funds, which was talked about in the Commission... they are the State Culture Capital Fund... The Society Integration Fund is managed, I would say so, Development/About! enough people, and there should be no concern that the National Association could have any negative impact on the cost of these funds, but it will certainly be much better if this money goes through a state purse than through this private foundation. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U185	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U186	In the Commission proposal 7 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U187	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - Dombrava's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U188	Proposal No 8 is also on the same subject - on the amount of the payment and the procedure for payment. That is also John Dombrava's proposal. This was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U189	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Janis Dombrava. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U190	Dear Members of the Saeima! In fact, the choice here remains completely simplified: do you want to entrust the cost of funds to the private foundation led by Krupņikovs, or do you want to entrust it to the Latvian Politically Repressed Association. Two options: the private foundation of Krupņikova or the Latvian Politically Repressed Association with a huge number of members throughout the territory of Latvia, including the Jews of Latvia who have suffered repression. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U191	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mr. Bondar... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U192	In the Commission, the proposal 8 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U193	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - Mr Dombrava's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U194	9. - Dombrava's proposal. This shall apply to Article 5 and shall be for the beneficiaries of the refund. This proposal was not supported by the Commission either.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U195	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Janis Dombrava. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U196	So with this, we are starting to look at who should spend this money on what objectives. In fact, this really is a very important section... where I want to talk at the beginning about one fundamental problem, which is the law built on the principle of ethnic origin, where there is also an obvious problem. Incidentally, it is strange that we have a Member in the Saeima, Andrejs Judin, and a number of other Members who usually oppose this form of discrimination - ethnic -... prevent... The question is: if any Jewish of Latvia who has suffered Communist crimes (or his relative), wants to hold a memorial event on 14 June, he will be able to do so or will not be able to do so? Because within the framework of that event... it will actually extend well beyond the Jewish community of Latvia. And here's the question: how will it be? For example, will a Jewish of Latvia, who was with the Roma, living in Latvia, be able or will not be able to form various commemorative events or activities aimed specifically at the memory of the Holocaust, which is related to the Roma of Latvia who suffered in the Holocaust - with them? Therefore, it would be a call to re-define the first paragraph of this Section 6 and say that “funds for the compensation of the good will of the politically oppressed persons of Latvia”... Thus, Latvia can be used for persons under political repression and measures that reduce the consequences of occupation. And then a list would follow. These funds could be used by all those who are politically oppressed, not only those who are ethnic Jews, and measures that mitigate the consequences of occupation in Latvia, no matter what this occupation... and crimes of the totalitarian regime were committed. Thank you, I call for your support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U197	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U198	Dear President, Honourable Members! Now I am panicy, and Mr Dombrava is so faithy and panicy, we already understand that if such a proposal is adopted, then no one will be able to get anything from the so-called Jewish community, because they have not already been politically oppressed. If we look at what those who claim to be there - different organisations. Those who have been at the Jewish museum on Skolas Street - you can already look, there, let us say, the veterans of the Great Patriotic War, citizens of different nationalities from the USSR. They already have nothing to do with the repression suffered by the Jews of Latvia. This is a very dangerous proposal, I agree. So if it's politically repressed... they could have been repressed only by the Soviet system, but in no case could they have been repressed by the Germans or by the Nazis because they did not, first of all, live here. They didn't have any property here during the war, and they don't have any right to that property, and they don't... as I said, at least during the Soviet period, they could not afford to be representatives of religious organizations, because many of them, as members of the parish, were not allowed to be believers at all. Maybe someone secretly built his faith, but most of the time... So they also called themselves Jews. And if now, let's take... It would be extremely interesting... For 47 years, Communists have not given up any property. These Jews who came from the republics of the USSR did not ask for anything, they did not want them to be given their property. Let's have one. If you were the live members of the politburo, Kaganovich, who led the USSR... as a country... or Andropov, they could now come to Latvia (if they lived more than a hundred years - as the famous German soldier Goldberg, who was on the Nazi poster)... they could also claim, but they could not claim, if they accepted this name of Mr. Dombrava, "politically oppressed", because they were not politically oppressed, they themselves repressed these people. If we look at Frank Gordon's book, he writes that in 1941, when these Latvian Jews were taken away by banks, industrial enterprises (which was also mentioned by the respected artist Bikše), five-storey houses... Communists... Gordon says that there were about 10,000 young Jews in the working camp. If they had been somewhere for a hundred years now, they would not be able to qualify because they were not politically oppressed. It is therefore necessary to give way to different ways around you to say what you are not, to name yourself as a Jewish and to apply to these properties. In any case, the name is very precise. I call on you to support Mr Dombrava's proposal, because he has cut down the ash from the grain. If we put that name in... not the name, but the fact that it is given to politically oppressed organisations or politically oppressed organisations, then the politically oppressed would be perhaps a few dozen people there. I am calling for this hypocrisy to be supported and abandoned by the return of property to those who do not have the least right to receive it under the law of Rome and the Civil Law, which had already been established here before the Second World War, to belong to the state. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U199	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mr. Bondar... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U200	In the Commission, proposal 9 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U201	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - MEP John Dombrava's proposal! Please, let's vote! 15, 57, abstain - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U202	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - my colleague Dombrava's proposal. This concerns Article 6. Neither was the Commission supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U203	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Janis Dombrava. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U204	So in this case too, it's about these... more precisely, so it is about using all these means in the future for all those who are politically oppressed. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U205	I closed the debate. For the Commission, Mr Bondara... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U206	This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U207	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - MEP John Dombrava's proposal! Please, let's vote! - 15, 56, abstaining - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U208	Next, all the proposals - up to proposal 23 - will be related to Article 6, to various parts of it. 11. - Dombrava's proposal. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U209	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Janis Dombrava. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U210	Colleagues, I would like to point out that this proposal provides for what money could then be spent on, and there is a proposal to add - this money could be used to preserve the memory of persons who are politically oppressed in Latvia, including burials, memorials and memorials. Let us remember the discussions we had at the time of the adoption of the budget in connection with the call by the association of the political repression of Cesis to finance the improvement of the memorial on the Amata side - to ask for money from Members of the Saeima, and then the budget... in the process, try to put these funds in some way into the public budget, which is, of course, wrong. In this case... We have had many situations in Latvia's history, when the Jews of Latvia together with others have been oppressed. We would then be very clear here that funding through these programmes would be used to support materially initiatives aimed at preserving the memory of politically oppressed persons, including burials, memorials and memorials. I don't know... If you believe that the funds should not be used to keep evidence of the repression of totalitarian regimes, or that they can only be used specifically for persons who were Jews of Latvia and places of their memorials and places of burial, but should not be used more widely, for example, for the improvement of the Torņakalns memorial site, where repression of both Jews of Latvia and representatives of other nations took place, then I do not know what meaning of this law is at all. Indeed, I am calling for this very logical proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U211	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mr. Bondar... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U212	In the Commission, the 11th proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U213	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. - MEP John Dombrava's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U214	12. - a proposal from my colleague, Dombrava. This was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U215	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Janis Dombrava. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U216	So this proposal is intended to make it clear that the funds are to be used for historical research in relation to the repression that has taken place in Latvia. I don't know... I would really like to hear one Member's argument as to why this proposal is not to be supported, because it seems to me that... if it is aimed at restoring historical justice, it would, however, be correct to also study history and understand it as accurately as possible, what happened in these darkest things of our history... pages. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U217	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U218	Dear President, Honourable Members! Only a small note to this proposal, 12. I think that the gypsy mentioned here is the only ethnic group that was persecuted because of its origin. Why? Because the gypsy could easily be recognized by their external appearance, some of them were nomadic, living in taboos, wandering, being able to collect them in some way and believing that they did not benefit the German Third Reich, which they could not say about the Jews, because the gypsy could not be, as I said, like Werner Goldberg on the Nazi poster as the ideal German soldier. His appearance would obviously not allow it, with little exceptions. The Roma were also the officers of the warmahta, they could not be admirals, feldmarsals or generals for various reasons... as some German officers of Jewish origin did, and they could... because these officers could be identified, as I said, only by documents recorded in the synagogues, but the chigans were very easily identified by their way of life. This is therefore a very precise proposal from the Member, Mr Dombrava. I call for this to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U219	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mr. Bondar... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U220	In the Commission, the proposal 12 relating to Article 6, first paragraph, point 2 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U221	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. - MEP John Dombrava's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U222	13. - Dombrava's proposal. Paragraph 3 of the first paragraph of Article 6 shall apply. This was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U223	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Janis Dombrava. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U224	I am a young man, but I have been a Member in several parliamentary term. In 2016, there was an event when this Council of Jewish Communities of Latvia... organizations... Last time... came to the Saeima and asked them to give back the property that the Saeima also gave back... and that it will lead to their resolution. At that time they had invited members of the Foreign Affairs Commission to their society's main property at Skolas iela 6. And this association's property... Here is also the... The first-reading version provides that money can be used to maintain the assets belonging to these organisations. What surprised me at the time when I visited School Street 6, the act hall (at least that could have been understood... whether the conference hall, I do not know exactly what the name is) was recently restored and the symbolism was preserved on the balcony. Specially restored, refreshed color to better stand out to be more visible. Guess, what was it about symbolism? It was a symbol of the sickle and the hammer, which had been preserved and restored to the place of glory in this hall. So we expect (or, more precisely, you colleagues, that) (A sound break.) ... This money would continue to be (A sound break.) ... Even more - I would like to note that Dmitry Krupņikov, the representative of the society, did not hide that they would also be willing to use one or the other property for commercial purposes - to restore, rent, so to say, earn money with them. Instead, in this proposal, I proposed that funding should be made available to organisations whose activities are related to maintaining the memory of Latvia's politically oppressed persons, and support for their activities. It could be the Association of Politically Repressed Latvia, the Association of Politically Repressed Riga and others. I call on you to support this proposal of 13.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U225	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mr. Bondar... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U226	In the Commission, proposal 13 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U227	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 13. - MEP John Dombrava's proposal! Please, let's vote! 15, 57, abstain - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U228	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Also the proposal by John Dombrava. This concerns point 5 of the first paragraph of Article 6. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U229	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Janis Dombrava. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U230	On this proposal, too, I call on Members to look at the wording supported at first and second reading, which says that these funds can be used to finance events and projects relating to religion, culture, education, science, health, history, sport and charity. My colleague, Edwin Schnore, asked questions in the Commission about how it would be that healthcare in the future will be provided on an ethnic basis - some will be provided, others will not. And this is not about those who have suffered repression, but all, theoretically, representatives of communities - on an ethnic basis. Here, too, Boris Cilevičs, as a very active speaker at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on the prevention of discrimination based on ethnic features, or Andrejs Judin, who also likes to be a anti-discriminationist, can tell us how it is to make an ethnic health check. The question of sport also raises a lot of questions – whether it really will be possible to finance the VEF Riga basketball team, for example, through this programme. Instead, I propose that these funds should be used to host documentary and artistic films, to publish literary works related to the crimes of the Nazi and Communist regime on the territory of Latvia. A clear goal, a clear goal, everyone can also test and verify its performance, I think it also meets the objective of the law on the restoration of historical justice in the most direct way. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U231	Name to Member Karl Shadursky. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U232	Dear colleagues, If Mr Dombrava's proposal had been to add paragraph 5 to the text that he has written into the proposal, I would be happy to support it, but unfortunately, when it comes to both this proposal and the other proposals made by honourable Members Dombrava and Kirštein, I have to say that there is more irony there than the wish for these proposals to be supported. Unfortunately, therefore, this proposal from Mr Dombrava, Mr 14, cannot be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U233	Name to Member Janis Dombrava for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U234	I think it would only be right to reflect a little of the debate that was in the Commission. And in the Commission these proposals as very harmful... not offered to add... The compromise could always be found very quickly there (I would, of course, have no objection to make it as a separate point), but Mr Krupņikov, to whom you are about to pay money... He already does not like these proposals: why should this money go for the following purposes? The only thing where Mr Krupņikov was somewhat prepared to make concessions is the point of the 18th proposal. With great pain, with great difficulty, he agreed that some of the money should still be used for maintenance and improvement of Biķernieki forest, Dreilini forest, Rumbula, Mežaparks, Chain dunes, Daugavpils and other Holocaust memorial sites. So that the emphasis on the Holocaust, not on maintaining and restoring the crime scenes of the Communist regime... Considering, however, that the law was built on the fact that this injustice was committed by the Soviet Union rather than by the Nazi Germany, which took away these properties first... which subsequently could not be recovered by Latvian Jewish descendants or other family members. That is why I say again: perhaps even this could be as complementary... No one in the Commission wanted to support this. Mr. Shadursky... including Members from the New Unity Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U235	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U236	Dear President, Honourable Members! There is also a small remark. I also agree with Mr Shadursky and would support one hundred percent of what he says if he agreed that property was taken away by the Communists and not by the Nazis. Mr. Shadursky knows history very well. I think Mr. Shadursky is not saying that on 1 July when the German troops enter... As I said, Jews who practiced Judaism had factories, multistorey houses, banks, and other properties. Why am I saying that? You see, it's irony... Whether or not there is... Wouldn't have been mentioned in Teresin's declaration... with a word... Communists. And I also fully understand that, in Western Europe, the Communists did not do any great harm to Jews or Jews. And logically, Teresin's declaration as such is meant and written, mainly out of the positions that were in Western Europe. Here could be criticised by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, headed by the party represented by Mr Šadurskis, who joined this declaration, not to mention with a word that Latvia does not have property that it would have taken away... Now I'm talking about big properties, not watches or stuff... So these real estates that have been calculated... all of them were taken away by the Communists. The law is translated internationally. So if we translate this law, to a certain extent, we will show interest in various American Jewish organizations, the Zionist organizations... Israel too has a great interest in this law. It will be translated, let us say, in English as well as in other languages, and in its annotation everyone will read the reference to the Teresin Declaration. But it's a cheat. But it must be corrected. We can't, let's say, have such an imprecise law, where there is no word for these Soviets... property in some way... which is the property taken away by the Communists, should be returned. We always climb, all the time so we are talking around; we confuse, as I said, religious affiliation with ethnic origin, we refer to the Teresin Declaration, which has nothing to do with this, and in this way we really create the impression that we are those evil people who, behold, do not want to give some Nazis... property, although we know that they were the Communists themselves, and the Communists themselves also gave them. Well, that's a little note. Therefore, of course, I do not think that these proposals made by Mr Dombrava or by me, or, let us say, by the National Union, can change the thinking of people who have already agreed. Well, some may be for a single right, some may be for a small but fair payment. But in any case, I think Mr. Shadursky will at least try to keep his honour - not to enter history as completely sold, say, a dandruff and will support... Overall, this draft law will not, of course, be supported, because, let us not be naive, to improve something in this draft law - that would be the same as improving the Ribentrop-Molotov Pact, let us say, to write down that the Soviet troops may come here one day later so that people can, understand, clean their teeth and pack the suitcases before sending them to Siberia. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U237	I'm closing the debate... with a request for mutual respect in the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mr. Bondar... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U238	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that... Yes, Mr Dombrava said that we should report more widely on what happened in the Commission. As rapporteur, I do not want to repeat, because in the Commission, when we were preparing the draft law at first reading, we agreed that we did not extend the scope of the law, and I do not want to say this to every proposal, including to this same point. And the 14th proposal was not supported by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U239	Thank you for your comment. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 14. - MEP John Dombrava's proposal! Please, let's vote! 15, 57, abstain - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U240	A number of future proposals relate to Article 6, first paragraph, point 7. 15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - That's Mr Dombrava's proposal. The Commission was not supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U241	Thank you. Members have not applied for a debate, nor have they requested a vote. Consequently, Members do not object. However, a vote has been requested, but it is overdue. Let's go. Let us see the 16th proposal. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U242	16. - National associations “All for Latvia!” - the proposal of the Group of the "Fatherland and Freedom/LNPC" which also concerns Article 6 (1) (7). This is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U243	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Edvin Schnorem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U244	Hello, dear colleagues! So what is our proposal going on? This implies that at least five per cent of this reimbursement - 40 million - is directed towards cleaning and repairing Jewish graves in a number of cities. So they list the cities where the Jews, whose money we currently share with this bill, lived. Why such a proposal? First of all, because in many of these places these graves look like... in a very pitiful state, and we were a little surprised that the draft law already in place did not include such a norm. That's why that's the motivation now. Secondly, we presented it now because last time we rejected the proposal to donate money for the maintenance of the Jewish memorial, the Holocaust memorial. Thus, many people in Latvia have the impression that the applicants do not really care about preserving the memory of the pre-war Jews and that this bill is not about restoring historical justice, but rather about the desire of one group of people - small but successful - to have access to money by means of the Holocaust, using a favourable political constitution now, and in this way getting to the means to use, not to preserve the memory of the Jews killed in the Holocaust, but to use for such very more timely purposes as, for example, providing their own health care. We believe that this, of course, is not good, it is not bad, and we call on our colleagues to change this situation, despite the fact that this proposal was rejected by the Commission. Mr. Krupņikov's sum was disliked (Sound break.) ... When, as they say, the exact amount... We said it was... may also be more, it is not necessarily, as you say, but now at least - at least! - Five per cent. Well, it wouldn't even be so much on 20 cities. Overall, since the idea was to be supported, the amount was not to be donated. I believe that this is, of course, not good. I call on my fellow Members to support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U245	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U246	Yes, when it comes to this proposal, I must however call for it not to be supported, because it is not clear first of all what parameters these settlements have been named. I have had the happiness of living in one of the cities of Talsi (now Talsi District) in Valdemārpils. By the way, a very cozy town, but also in Valdemārpils, there are Jewish graves; anyone can view them on the Internet. There are, of course, many places in Latgale... I've also visited... where both Jewish burials and, of course, Holocaust memorial sites are found. And in this respect, of course, such a proposal, listing precisely such settlements... It's grossly incorrect. I call for more support 18. - the budget and financial (tax) commission's proposal that its money is intended... including - maintenance and improvement of memorial sites of the Holocaust in Biķernieki forest, Dreiliņi, Dreiliņi forest, Rumbula, Mežaparks, Škele dunes, Daugavpils and other places. In Latvia, many memorial sites, which relate specifically to the Holocaust, are currently being maintained exactly about... or the plates even installed... for private funds. In particular, the State is not involved in maintaining these memorial sites. And that is why such a proposal - to support those who maintain these memorial sites throughout Latvia. Maybe we also have to create new... Either, for example, in Valdemārpils. Valdemārpils... specifically in the context of Holocaust events... I don't remember that someone would be marked there exactly as such a special memorial place. It is said that it is as if - with some two small memorial plates, but it would probably be for the Municipality of Talsi to correct the memory of Jews in Talsi municipality as well. And coincidence after the National Association is also in power in Talsi County. However, this proposal, at least initially, does not even mention Talsi. It seems to me that it is quite unbalanced with the community in Talsi. And I must also remind you that it was Valdemārpils (its former name - Sasmaka) that was the Jewish trade centre - with a very significant proportion of the Jewish community. There was also a synagogue, which is currently in quite a lick state and there's no more... Not a little bit of a synagogue. In Soviet times it was used as a... procurement, I think... or were there. And then, just taking over... I don't even know what later, when Latvia regained independence, the municipality did with that former synagogue building. It's hard to say. Here we go. And in this case... I call on you to support the 18th proposal, of course, by highlighting those memorial sites that are better known to the people of Latvia, I will say so. But let me say that in other such places too, this money can be invested, and that would be desirable, because there is such a saying... Both for native researchers and even for army officers... I thought it was even a motto: “Whoever explores the past will bless the future.” I also call for this principle to be guided. I call on you not to support this. I call for support for proposal 18. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U247	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U248	Dear President, Honourable Members! The proposal is very well-founded. And why? I recommend to everyone... well, I can suggest, I can't advise, nor is there any great interest in this... I think that the book Holocaust Industry (issued in the United States, by Finkelstein) can be found at the National Library. The book describes studies that the leaders of various Jewish organizations, associations, have received huge sums, some - several million. These amounts have been received from Germany, the Swiss banks, from French railways which have allegedly dealt with Jewish transport, and from various other organisations. The amounts have been calculated at that time... Mostly those studies are about the 60s, the 70s... By the 80s... in doičmarks - billions, but if you recalculate dollars or euros, it is still billions. And it turns out that a large part of the money has not been allocated to many of the Nazis' oppressed, ordinary people, and that money has not even been received by many of the victims of concentration camps who have been living for the time being - neither for medical treatment, for food, or for some help - but by the leaders of these organizations and their relatives, and so on. In fact, the same things that Brian Mark Rigg describes in his book - which has been in the vorta, served under good conditions as officers, and there were colons, admirals and generals, and then apparently have taken some of these compensations. That is why precision is needed. And I think it's the fact that here's where that money goes... As you say, there is always something in favour of firmness and control over the distribution of funds, so I call for support. I'm not saying it's going to happen to us, but I mean... if something is happening in the United States and a book called the Holocaust Industry is written about it, I have no doubt that the same can happen again in Latvia. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U249	The name of the Member, Ilze Indrickson. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U250	Hello, dear colleagues! I would like to make it clear why it is precisely the cemeteries of these settlements, the Jewish cemeteries, which are mentioned in our proposal, as National Associations, that are very precise. A list of properties whose cadastral value was converted into this 40 was presented to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. ... which will be paid to the foundation. And these cemeteries are directly connected to this territory... The Jewish communities are cemeteries - they are linked to the assets for which this funding was set, calculated and will be paid to the foundation. Maybe I'd like to take a closer look at why it's so important, too, in our opinion... It seems that this money should be invested, even at five percent, in the improvement and cleaning of these cemeteries... And also memories, you could say... and showing respect for the Jewish community directly from their settlements... whose assets will now be compensated. I can mention Talsi municipality as an example. Mr. Feldman probably doesn't know that Sabile and Suctur are also in Talsi. He said there was nothing to do with Talsi. These two graveyards - the Suctuary Cemetery and the Sabile Jewish Cemetery - are named in this proposal. And I want to mention precisely the Suctori cemetery, which is the Talsi suburban cemetery, where in fact the Talsu Jewish community looks very old tombs... I'm in a rather sad state. In recent years there cleaning work has been done, but... The first cleanup work there took place several years ago, one might say, a group of tourists - activists who came from Germany and, as they taught, as they knew, with axes, saws... Cut down the shrubs, shred them in abnormally large piles. In fact, the graveyard became a branched place in the outskirts of the forest, and after their departure the local society, the support society of the Talsi nature park, was forced to correct this inappropriate care and cleaning and arranged this graveyard with the support of the municipality... at least in a respectable manner... by removing all these piles of branches and correcting what had been done. It was more bad than good. At the same time, also in Sabile, with the support of the municipality and the support and initiative of the artist Mr. Feldbergs, a very beautiful memorial place has been created... About three years ago... It is in Sabile - the Jews and those, you might say, the tragic memories they had there. The event was also attended by the Ambassador of Israel. But unfortunately, we have not once felt that the Jewish community would also show interest in the clean-up and improvement of both small memorial sites and cemeteries. It seems to me that this would be one of the first and most important works and the most important investments - there this funding is to invest, because maybe it is these settlements and these cemeteries... that they are directly related to the reimbursement of the value of the property provided for in that law. I must also, of course, thank you for calling for support for the Commission's proposal. We called for this proposal to be made from the proposal of the National Alliance, without giving interest, but at least an ideal place for these memorial sites. Memorial sites are memorials, they are the largest and most important, but in every populated area where there has been a Jewish community or where there may be a small one, it is very important to show respect and honor and to assemble and improve these ancient graves so that they can respect the history and traditions of the community. So, I think, this proposal is very important. I call for support for proposal 16.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U251	The name to Member Edvin Schnorem for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U252	Mr Feldman referred to two reasons why we cannot vote in favour of this proposal. But Ilze Indricsone actually said what I wanted to say. So that it's not right to mention these settlements... Well, if colleagues got to know the bill... The draft law also contains an annex and lists the settlements that they want to compensate for and the Jews they once owned. And these graves we've submitted for... they are right there. So that if you want to take money, use this Jewish money, then it would be good to put their tombs together. I think that is quite correct. As for the second case, to Talsi, that it is not correct that there is no Talsi, there is no neighborhood... Well, there's one thing in Talsi, and Mrs Indricksone has already mentioned that. And since I planted this list myself, I got to know it quite in detail... And the brushes are the biggest... as far as I understand, also the Jewish cemetery in Talsi, so I think... If these concerns are now dispelled, then Mr Feldman and the UKP, I think they can probably also be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U253	I closed the debate. Please, Mr Bondar, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U254	In the Commission, proposal 16 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U255	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 16. - National associations “All for Latvia!” - the proposal put forward by the Group for Homeland and Freedom/LNNK! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time for a break. We will continue to see this draft law at 3.30 p.m. The registration of Members' presence is over. Interruption until 3.30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U256	Dear colleagues, we will continue after the break. On the agenda - draft law “Law on Good Will Compensation for the Jewish Community of Latvia”. Third reading. Mārtiņš Bondars, on behalf of the Commission responsible, namely the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U257	Colleagues, we are on the 17th proposal, which is on Article 6(1)(8). 17. - National associations “All for Latvia!” - the proposal of the Group on Homeland and Freedom/LNNK. It is partly supported and included 18. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U258	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edvin Schnorem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U259	Hello, fellow Members, again! Our proposal provides that no less than one percent of the compensation is used to maintain and improve the memorial sites of the Holocaust in Biķernieki Forest, Dreilini Forest, Rumbula, Mežaparks and Šķeķele. Why did we submit this proposal? Because the proposal to grant was rejected last time; it did not specifically list these memorial sites, but simply said - to grant Holocaust memorials in Latvia. And also because, at the very beginning of this draft law, we found that, in addition to all kinds of good things, such as, for example, our own health and sports, and various valuable events... in addition, there was no mention of Holocaust memorials. It was quite strange. That is why, for the third reading, we have now put forward a proposal which, to say, is limited to the minimum. If you don't want to spend that money for such purposes on a significant scale, then we mentioned at least one percent. That's not too much. Then there's 99 percent left - everyone can be spent. So both for the sick and, literally, for all the rest of us who have already been fought here. There you go! And there are only five places mentioned here that are already relatively well maintained, and so there would not be too much of that money. But now it's polite to... Considering that it really is actually the money of people who sleep there, that I think would be quite correct - to support the memory of these people. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U260	Thank you. I closed the debate. The debate has already been closed. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U261	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that proposal 17 has been partly supported and incorporated 18. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U262	As the speaker has asked for support in the debate, we must vote in favour. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 17. - National associations “All for Latvia!” - the proposal of the Group on Homeland and Freedom/LNNK! Please, let's vote! For - 15, for - 49, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U263	Thank you, colleagues. 18. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. This is, of course, supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U264	Members want to have a debate. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U265	On this proposal, I say immediately, I do not request a vote. It is very good that such a proposal has been developed by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission because people asked... I was asked by people whether it could be that the Jewish community did not hold the Holocaust's memorials, and said it definitely... From the rhetoric that came from known politicians and with such an antisemitic, say, mood, the impression that this did not happen may have arisen. It is now being removed with this proposal. Moreover, for the sake of order, I should point out, as I said in my previous debate on Jewish graves, that, for example, in the same vicinity of Valdemārpils... I have to note that there is also a memorial place for the Holocaust right next to Talsi County Medņu, and 56 Jews were killed there in August 1941. And in 2007 the Council of Jewish Communities and Communities of Latvia installed a memorial plate in this murder site and assembled their place altogether. And that, it should be noted, happened about the funds of this society. This is one example that more applies to my native side, so I... naturally, I am more interested in my own country of origin. I guess it's also... I know that there are also such places in Latgale where this has been done precisely by private means. Hence, any statement that the Jewish community would not care for its memorial sites is not true, and it is clearly misleading. That is why I repeat that I do not request a vote on this proposal, I support this proposal. For the sake of clarity, to be a rebuttal to the rhetoric of potentially anti-Semitic politicians, which is expressed in the public space of Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U266	I closed the debate. The vote on the 18th proposal is not requested and Members support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U267	19. - Dombrava's proposal. Associated with the second paragraph of Article 6. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U268	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U269	Colleagues! I even hope in some way that the Saeima will not support this proposal, given that overall the draft law does not support the proposals submitted by the members of the National Alliance, because this is a direct way, as that law may reach the Constitutional Court and lose... or the President of Latvia could not declare it. Thus, this part of the article states that the funds allocated to the Fund may also be used to provide social and material assistance to those victims of the Holocaust who live outside Latvia in the territory of Latvia. It would be very important here to clarify... of course, if someone has a wish that this law at least retains some hope, it would pass through the Constitutional Court... understand that we have a law on politically oppressed persons, where there is... This law is divided into two parts: the recognition of political repression, the recognition of the crimes of the Communist regime, and the recognition of the recognition of the political repression, the recognition of the recognition of the crimes of the Nazi regime. That is why I have tabled a proposal that - I repeat! - social, health and material assistance should be provided to persons who are politically oppressed in Latvia and outside Latvia, so both to those who suffered Communist regime crimes, to those who suffered Nazi regime crimes, to those who live in Latvia and to those who live outside Latvia. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U270	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U271	The 19th proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U272	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 19. - Member Dombravas's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U273	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - That's Mr Dombrava's proposal. This concerns the third paragraph of Article 6. This was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U274	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U275	Yeah... Well, I hope that colleagues from the New Conservative Group, the Young Unity, the Greens/Farmers' Union... Well, about “Development/About!” ... I'm less convinced of the possibility that someone could wake up there... But so... If this law was intended, at least initially, to create historical justice in order to compensate for the damage caused by the two totalitarian regimes, it would be only right if we were to make a clear distinction between the benefit of this law or funds in monetary terms (or otherwise) that former workers and agents of the repressive institutions of Nazi Germany and the USSR, as well as persons who were members of the National Socialist German Workers' Party, members of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. Thus, in simple terms, the Gestapo workers who carried out the Holocaust must not benefit from the Holocaust and the members of the National Socialist German Workers' Party (NSDAP) or members of the Communist Party who politically supported the genocide and the Holocaust must not benefit. I call for this very logical proposal to be supported. I would really call for someone to feel that this is not to be supported... I accept that, of course, it will be absolutely against it, because otherwise their representatives will certainly not be able to receive support, but for all the others I really do not see why they will vote against it. That is why I call once again for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U276	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U277	Dear President, Honourable Members! I would support this proposal, as we also supported the proposal of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, because the view is that the more precise the indications that should be spent on this money, the better. Why? Let me explain. If we... Well, many say that it is not necessary to specify in such detail the purposes for which the funds are allocated, how they are distributed (whether they are medical treatment, whether they are graves or religious objects), and that this fund, which will receive this money, will know itself. Unfortunately, that is not the case. For example, one cove: We refused to change the name of the law. Do you know: if this law is passed in this version, without details, then this money can be received, for example, by the Palestinian Society in Latvia? If you enter the Internet and see what the Palestinians are, then it's written here... I'm looking at Wikipedia now... that the Palestinians are autochthonous descendants of the Hebrews and that genetic studies point to the Hebrews as the most reliable of modern Palestinian ancestors, as confirmed by the Jewish practices that existed in the first half of the 19th century. Thus, the Palestinians are the same Jews (hebrew) who passed through Islam during the Osman Empire. I only mention it in order to show that paradox that by creating inaccurate laws and fantasizing... For example, when we write down religious property to an ethnic group, we can find ourselves in such a very deaf situation. As I said, Jews are both Karaims and most Palestinians. Of course, they are then confused with the Arabs and so on, but their traditions are different from those of the Arabs, and so they are called the Palestinians, although they are the same Hebrew by origin. And, as Wikipedia has mentioned, even after current genetic research, it turns out that they are the same Jews. So, prove me if someone doesn't like... that a Palestinian society established in Riga would not be able to claim or prove in court that they are entitled to part of this money if we write: only Jews. That is why I say once again: the more precise the law and the more indications - the better. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U278	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U279	This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U280	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 20. - Dombrava's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U281	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - National associations “All for Latvia!” - the proposal of the Group of the "Fatherland and Freedom/LNEC" which concerns the third paragraph of Article 6. And it is not supported by the Commission either.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U282	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edvin Schnorem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U283	Yes, this proposal is that we call for the addition of Article 6, which reads as follows: "The remuneration is prohibited from being used for the pursuit of an economic activity aimed at making profits." So this text was included in this version in 2007, when the Jewish community presented - as it seems to be the first time - a similar draft legislation in the Saeima, and that text was included at that time, so I felt that there should be no major problem with this text for the Jewish community and the applicants, too, this time. Unfortunately, this was not supported by the Commission, because Mr Krupņikov said at first that he had problems when I reminded him that it had already been his own, as he said, in the text years ago. Well, well, then, say, there was no problem that could if... But yet... However, the committee also voted immediately and rejected it. I think this would be welcome and it would also remove the concerns that many people have about the fact that this money can be used to make profits or to make something else... for other actions and objectives that are inextricable, say, the noble, good will that Members will express here. That is why we are calling for support for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U284	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U285	We have often heard here that the Deputy Head of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is being criticised, and I would even say that sometimes it is not deserved because... if they report such a point, it would still be correct to tell us why, compared to previous times when the Saeima gave one or other property to the Jewish community (so-called)... at the time this paragraph was to be included, but it is currently not to be included in the law. It would also be right to reflect the debate that took place within the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax), where Mr Krupņikov did not hide that the aim was to make a profit. Therefore, I think that if these really were noble objectives rather than profit, such proposals should be supported and made clear and clear that this money is not to be used to make profits.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U286	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U287	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say (in order to be correct, as Mr Dombrava said), that there was no talk about making profits and that the 21st proposal was not supported by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U288	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 21. - National associations “All for Latvia!” - the proposal of the Group on Homeland and Freedom/LNNK! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U289	22. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. The Commission is supported. This concerns Article 6(3) and involves the use of funds in subsequent financial years, where these funds have not been used in the current year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U290	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U291	Thank you. 23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Legal Office which, to a certain extent, complements Article 7 of the draft law with a new first and second paragraphs. And this proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U292	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U293	24. - the proposal by Member Dombrava, which is also about Article 7 of the law. This proposal has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U294	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U295	25. - the proposal by the Minister of Finance, Mr Reira, which is also on Article 7 and is expressed in a given wording. This is partly supported and included in proposals 23 and 28.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U296	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U297	26. - a proposal by the Legal Office on Article 8 and its title. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U298	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U299	27. - the Member Dombrava's proposal for the first paragraph of Article 8. This is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U300	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U301	Colleagues! This proposal is not actually put to the vote in the light of the proposals that have previously been rejected, but I would also like to point out to the report of the Saeima that, during the debate in the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) it has also been made clear by lawyers that there is no legal provision at this stage which then forms the board of this fund. And it is, in principle, a very great mistake that it has been said that representatives of the Ministry of Finance should take part in the fund board, but beyond the fund board, about how decisions will be made in this board and so on, nothing has been said. And that's... This law is a legal parachute. It cannot use EUR 40 million of public money, then without any supervision, and trust that any further reallocation will be fair and equitable. I therefore say once again that I do not call for a vote on this proposal, but I point out that we will have very great problems there, because there is no law on how precisely the fund board should be set up.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U302	I closed the debate. No vote is requested and Members agree with the Commission's view without supporting this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U303	Thank you, colleagues. 28. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau to replace in the first subparagraph the words ‘pursuant to Article 6 of this Law...’ in fact with the words ‘to monitor the use of funds paid to the Fund from the State budget’. And this is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U304	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U305	29. - also a proposal from the Legal Office, which is also about the replacement of words. That commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U306	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U307	30. - also a proposal from the Legal Office. This is partly supported and included in proposal 31.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U308	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U309	31. - the proposal of Minister of Finance Janis Reiras, calling for the wording of the third, fourth and fifth paragraphs of Article 8 of the draft law. And this is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U310	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U311	32. - Dombrava's proposal. The Commission is not supported and is also bound by Article 8.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U312	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U313	Colleagues! On this point, I would particularly like to appeal to Members who seem to be very interested in the rule of law. Why? Because this Article provides that the beneficial owner of the fund may not be a person with tax debts, persons specified in the Law on National Sanctions of the Republic of Latvia or persons against whom criminal proceedings have been initiated. The new Conservatives love to talk about strengthening the rule of law, and indeed, in certain areas too, have done enough in this direction. And there was also a very interesting situation in the Commission, where the representatives of the New Conservative Party simply did not vote on this proposal, disappeared from the vote. It was not allowed to vote in favour, but it was conceptually in favour of this proposal. Well then I am calling for courage, however, and for this vote by the Saeima to support this proposal because... Does anyone really think that under the direction of the fund, which will be entrusted with administering 40 million taxpayers' money, there should be persons with tax debts or who are included in the Law on National Sanctions of the Republic of Latvia... respectively the persons designated by law or against whom criminal proceedings have been initiated, indicating that there is a distance to good repute... I think that is wrong. Its persons may act as members of the Foundation, or similarly, but certainly not under the direction of this Fund. Unfortunately, at the moment, there are people who are very far from ideal or even good people under the leadership of the Fund, rather that is very bad. And I think it is wrong that we, as the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia, allow such persons to manage large sums of money in the future. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U314	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U315	In the Commission, proposal 32 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U316	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 32. - Member Dombravas's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U317	Colleagues, finally closing - 33. - a proposal from Member Janis Dombrava, which reads as follows: "The beneficiary of the Fund may not be a person who himself or whose first-ranking relatives were former members and agents of the repressive institutions of Nazi Germany or the USSR." This proposal was not supported by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U318	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U319	Dear Members of the Saeima! Those who vote for this law! Soon this shameful moment will be past, and this hour of shame will be over. Only then, of course, will we be able to open this law many more times during this parliamentary term, so that every one of your supporters remembers what you have noticed there. But so this proposal is, in my opinion, such an absolute minimum if you do not want to make yourself an absolute ridicule. This proposal therefore provides for the idea that the fund should not be managed by persons whose first degree relatives were members of the repressive institutions of Germany or the USSR. If the law is built on the restoration of historical justice... What does it look like if a Czech or Gestapo employee or, for example, his wife has been a Gestapo or a Czech employee... either husband or parent. And now they will decide how to distribute money to the Jewish community of Latvia... I will point out very specifically. If this norm is adopted, then the management of the fund will have to disappear either at least the person who corresponds to this... It seems to me that it is absurd that the Members of the Saeima are prepared to entrust a good will compensation for the crimes committed by Nazi Germany and the USSR against our citizens... to transfer this money to former members of the Nazi German or USSR repressive institutions or to members of their families. That's why I really do once again, colleagues... right now that law will be passed, but so that you do not make yourself an absolute laugh, I really call for this proposal to be supported so that, at least in that fund, there is a person who has a better reputation than those who are currently at the disposal of this fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U320	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U321	Dear President, Honourable Members! As we can see, there's really a legal brother. I think that in fact, among all the brothers who different Saeima have created, this could certainly give first place. Ignored facts in the law on religious persecution. A large number of Members do not know history, they do not know that Jews were historically deceived, but Jewish leaders, starting from Spain, where everyone who passed through Christianity was not persecuted and could be a honorable merchant. We look at the same caric Russia, where many Latvians, for example, studied in Baron Stiglyz's drawing school, but hardly anyone remembers that Baron Stiglytz was a Jewish who accepted Lutheranism, became honorable, married to Barones, became an aristocrat, founded a school and built a luxurious house in the middle of St. Petersburg. Lenin's grandfather Blank, who was a Jew, also passed away... He was baptized in Orthodoxy, became an honorable Orthodox, and his two sons could immediately attend the St. Petersburg’s Military Medical School. And the same thing we see is that the Third Reich commanders, such as Milk or Wilberg, or Asher, or Rode, were not persecuted. And no property was taken away. The other, which is here - has been violated, extremely grossly violated, the Constitution. I think it's violated, I think, for the first time in the history of the restored Latvia, where the people of Latvia are opposed, on the one hand, to which all Latvian citizens are meant, and some group, an ethnic group that has not benefited, which is, of course, a false statement... which has not benefited from the property that has been taken away by Jews, which is a total injustice, because we know that many of the rich people deported in Latvia came from the Soviet Union. We will not analyse how many Jews were there and how Russians or other Communists were there, but in these seven and twelve rooms, believe me, no simple Jews were placed - there were all kinds of commissioners, cheques, community functions and so on. So Latvia's property, according to this law, because we did not change the name, can be received by those who have never been persecuted. So Jews from Russia, who belong to the Tjurkai people, are ethnic, have nothing to do with the Jews, but they call themselves Jews, soldiers, who are Jews, but to whom the Germans did not take away anything and who were not aware of them. And, as I said here ironically, you may not agree with it, but imagine that if even 10 Palestinians in Latvia form a Palestinian society, then they will be able to claim, because they are of Jewish origin as such, only they are, as they say, Islamics. And this whole group will come from the Jewish possessions of Latvia – Communists, KGB agents, Soviet collaborators, because we have already rejected all these proposals. Therefore, I call on you not to shame yourself with such an annotation, such a title and such proposals. I think the President will not sign it. And even if he signs it, then the next Saeima will be able to correct this law without problems and include all those politically oppressed - first of all actually those who were not able to escape - here I mean the Roma, as now the politicians call it. I call on you to support this proposal and to vote in general... and don't shame yourself... and vote generally against the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U322	Name to Member Karl Shadursky.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U323	Dear colleagues, Mr Dombrava, you are embarrassing Members for their position on this draft law. I would not say a word if you were left in politeness, because I actually try to deal with the lack of education. Mr. Dombrava, you are a Latvian. You have gone to the Latvian school. Do you not really feel the difference in writing your proposals between the terms “beneficial beneficiary” and “beneficial beneficiary”? Because it already speaks that that true benefit is only in him in the sun. Mr. Dombrava, think about what you are writing and stay within the limits of politeness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U324	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U325	Hello, dear colleagues! Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Now that we are on proposal 33, I would like to go through both the first and the second and the third readings and all the proposals that have been. I've been following this... The budget and financial (tax) commission has held this debate if it can be called if it was a debate... To be honest, there really was no debate, for the first reading, I supported this bill because... with such hope that - please come, tell me, come and say to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, come, tell me, representative of the Jewish community X or Y, or Z, come, tell me! At the end of the day, several meetings of the panel took place and there was no real explanation. That's pretty big... the view of the majority of Members that nothing is as corrected as it is and everything remains as it is. And here's such a little story that I have a friend of this kind, but it could actually be said that maybe a acquaintance, and his name is von Grave. Mr Fon Graves has read an annotation of the draft law a long time ago, and in him, as such a historical injustice began... And Mr. von Graves proposes to correct this historical injustice and to urgently establish the Shobenbrel Society, and to demand back to the Riga Castle, as he drives around the Riga Castle every day and looks at it, and sees it Riga Castle, and its historical injustice has remained somewhere for him all the time, and it is a rather painful process for him... I think it's pretty... There may be a lot of swords that will join him. But it shows a bit through this absurd humorous prism that decisions are not being interpreted. And here up to the third reading of the 33rd proposal was not explained either by the Commission or by the Tribunal... And here I don't want to talk... whether we're talking about Jews or Roma or anyone else, whatever... Just didn't explain... We're talking about EUR 40 million, we're talking about... are called specific individuals, all of them everywhere are known under the table... everybody is talking about something, but that is exactly what they say - no, there is no such thing. So in principle, I think, wait for such an association, the Shobenbrel Society. It's gonna be from the beginning... Perhaps the castle of Riga will be requested, possibly another castle. I do not know, but now it will probably be more with answers, and the motivation for this request - why - will be clearer. I also know that there is this security here and... the question of security and that we owe here, but then tell us what we owe. Now just say it! I am a member of the Saeima, 13. Member of the Saeima, and I feel responsible to explain my motivation for allocating this EUR 40 million to a relevant private organisation, without prejudice to any nationality, without prejudice to any private individuals, but the decision-making process, in principle, does not hold any criticism. I will not support this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U326	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U327	Firstly, I would like to thank the Community for its active involvement in the process of adopting this draft law. Secondly, thanking my fellow Members very much for their endurance during the examination of this draft law. Finally, the 33rd proposal was not supported by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U328	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 33. - Member Dombravas's proposal! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 18, it's against - 55, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U329	Finally... Colleagues! At the third reading, the draft law “Law on Good Will Compensation for the Jewish Community of Latvia” was approved by the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission. You are also asked to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U330	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Law on Good Will Compensation for the Jewish Community of Latvia” in the third, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - Draft Law on Ports Act, third reading. Member of the Commission responsible: Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U331	Thus, we will begin to examine the amendments to the Ports Act at third reading. 1. - Member Edgar Tatar's proposal. The Commission was not supported. But on the substance of the proposal, it has become clear that the current version has never defined the concept of the port city (since the law entered into force since the 1990s), and Mr Tatar believes that it is now time to define the concept of the port city. This was not accepted by the Members of the Commission and rejected this proposal, so I also call on the Saeima to reject it.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U332	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U333	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Yes, we also discussed this point in the committee responsible. And why is such a proposal to add Article 1.1 to the concept of port? After all, the planned reform is designed to completely separate the port from the city where it is located. And I would like to remind you once again that in the case of Riga they are 1962 hectares from the territory of Riga now, the port of Ventspils takes 2208 – more than 2000 hectares – or 42 percent of the territory of the country. As all the major ports of Latvia actually have these urban areas, the port... In fact, separation from the port is not only necessary, but may also hinder the joint development of both the port and the city. We have talked about this on several occasions, including in the Commission, clearly and lightly. It is not for nothing that the World Bank has stressed in its Port Reform Manual that any port reform process must take into account the shared goals of both the port and the city, i.e. that the port is indistinguishable from the city. And this was also stressed by ESPO, the European Maritime Ports Organisation, pointing out that the lack of cooperation between the port and the city and its citizens can lead to a gap and negative attitude that hinders the development of the port, and thus the development of the city. With this and future proposals, in fact, in this law, too, we make it clear... and we also want to regulate the cooperation between this port and the city. The proposal provides for the definition of this port as the municipality on whose territory the port is located by introducing the term ‘port city’. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U334	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U335	On behalf of the Commission, I can only add that the proposal was rejected. I call for this to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U336	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Member Tatar's proposal! Please, let's vote! About - 12, against - 47, abstaining - 11. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U337	The next two are the two. - the proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union for the third paragraph of Article 4 to be put forward in another version. And that was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U338	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U339	Colleagues! We are talking about Article 4, third paragraph, as follows: "The state and municipality land in the port area may be transferred to the port authority. The State is transferred by the Minister of Transport. The land of the municipality shall be transferred to the holding by decision of the relevant municipal council.’ And the property of the municipality is in fact separated from the state property if we look at the substance of our legislation and also the interpretation of these terms. Article 77 of the Law “On Municipalities” and the local government principle, as well as Article 9 of the European Charter of Local Authorities, which is binding on Latvia. According to the principles of the municipality and the law “On Municipalities” the municipality has the right to dispose of the property belonging to it at its own discretion in the interests of its citizens. It is not for nothing that the municipality, the municipal members, the municipal councils are those that represent their municipality, the interests of the inhabitants of their administrative territory. And take-over in this case, contrary to the will of the owners of the municipality... as landowner's right... is a public infringement. Moreover, neither the draft law nor any binding documents have in fact provided us with such a justification. And we pointed this out... We also pointed out this problem in the Commission on several occasions when we looked at this draft law and received an answer that it was just a governance model. But what we are seeing is, in fact, that the property of the municipality is completely transferred to another form of law, which is no longer a public derived person with all of this. And pursuant to Article 927 of the Civil Law, the owner, including the municipality, has the full right of power over his property, including the right to transfer or not transfer his property to another person. In this case, I am not only talking about Riga, but also talking about Ventspils city, in particular, the difference between the territory of the port terminal and the whole area of this Freeport of Ventspils, which covers more than 40 percent of the city's territory. In particular, the right of a municipality to transfer its property to a capital company shall be limited by the Law on Prevention of Waste of Financial Resources and Property of a Public Person. I would remind you that at the meeting of the Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy on 6 October last year, when examining the draft laws for the second reading, Ms Meisteres, the head of the Saeima's Legal Bureau, pointed out that it is necessary to reflect on what rights the port authority has with regard to the property of the municipality, precisely defining it in the law. This is still not actually done: such a precise definition of the law is still not proposed. We also referred to this and repeatedly called on the responsible ministry, the Ministry of Transport, to the exact specific wording. There was no responsibility of the minister... and the Parliamentary Secretary's proposals are not that much. I would also remind you that Mr Feldman, Head of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, admitted at the same meeting that the Ministry of Transport would still have to work for the third reading. And for the third reading, we did not expect specific versions. And our proposals were rejected. Therefore, colleagues, I would like to emphasise that, by supporting this proposal, the right of the municipality to decide, as owner, on its property which has actually been delegated to them by the citizens of this city, to manage this property while working in the interests of its citizens will be preserved. Once again, I would like to draw attention to the fact that in this case, both the Rigans and the Ventspilss, the citizens of these cities will suffer more than they will benefit in the long term, and that is why this proposal is also there. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U340	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U341	On behalf of the Commission, I can say that this proposal was not supported by the Commission. There were various discussions. We'll get to 10 later. - for a proposal from the committee responsible, which is in general different from the third and fourth and fifth paragraphs of Article 4. And in this context, it must also be said that this, second, proposal for the third part was rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U342	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please, let's vote! For - 12, for - 50, for - 12, for - 50, for - 12. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U343	Further 3. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport, Telelys Linkait. It was partly supported and included in 10. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U344	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U345	Here's four. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. This was not supported by the Commission. As I said, the third, fourth and fifth paragraphs of Article 4 will be 10. - Commission proposal. This was therefore not supported. Please reject.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U346	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U347	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! 4. - our proposal, in particular Article 4... actually, if we're talking about port management with the consent of the owners... actually under these conditions... I would like to point out that the right of owners to accept or refuse to agree to the treatment of any other person's property is the basis of property rights. Article 77 of the Law “On Municipalities” provides that the municipality’s property is separate from the state property and that the municipality itself manages and uses its property and treats it. Accordingly, dealing with the municipality's property without coordination with it, in our view, violates the rights and interests of the residents of the municipality. And like... as I also mentioned earlier, we have spoken about this proposal in the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, and in fact the essence of this proposal is to offer the lease, use or construction of municipal property only with the consent of the municipality, respecting the rights of the municipality as owner. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call for this specific proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U348	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U349	To avoid any misunderstandings, I applied for this time in the debate. But I have such legal considerations as I wanted to express. Well, first of all, it should be recalled that the port is a state strategically important object with a special operating regime. And the port territory as such, first of all, is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers and it can be defined primarily as a port area that can be developed not only for the needs of the port. And there are judgments of the Constitutional Court, rulings of the Senate of the Supreme Court that the territory of a port is established in order to ensure interests of society in the field of economics, and the legislator, initially in this law, also in the version in force, established special treatment with immovable property located in the territory of the port, providing in the law the right of the administration of the port to acquire real properties of the state and municipality on the basis of the law, and establishing that in legal relations with the land belonging to the State and the municipality the port authority acts on behalf of the land owner, including the right to grant the right of construction rights to the land of the state and municipality located in the territory of the port and to build various buildings (buildings) as independent objects of property. In that regard, and therefore on the basis of such arguments... These arguments are also known to the Commission, so it is no wonder that in the Commission the absolute majority of those who participated rejected this proposal as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U350	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added on behalf of the Commission, please?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U351	Not to be added. Please reject.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U352	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please, let's vote! For - 10, for - 52, for - 14. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U353	5. - Victor Valain's proposal. Also on the fifth paragraph of Article 4, again in a different wording. This is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U354	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U355	6. - Mr Valaina's proposal. Create a new paragraph 5.1 of Article 4 in the corresponding version. So also - in the territory of the port, the municipality can use the property for the exercise of its competence... and so on. This proposal, too, was rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U356	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - Member Valaina's proposal! Please, let's vote! For -11, for -50, for -15. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U357	7. - Victor Valain's proposal. For a new paragraph 5.2 of Article 4 - that the municipality could unilaterally recover the property held by the port authority. Such a proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U358	Members don't mind... Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 10, for - 50, for - 17. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U359	8 / 8 - the proposal of the Minister of Transport, Telelys Linkait. Partly supported and included 10. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U360	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U361	9. - Victor Valain's proposal. For a new sixth paragraph in Article 4, that the whole of the building should be reconciled with the owner of the property. I have already spoken about this in my debate: what conditions are there in this matter. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U362	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U363	Colleagues, like these property rights... we have talked to the Commission several times, and my colleague Viktors Valainis has also spoken about the sixth paragraph of Rule 4 - to be reworded... on this reconciliation -, very clearly shows and points to the right of the owner to handle his property in fact to the extent that it is... he is not taken away completely. Transfer of municipal property into possession of the state-owned company - I put emphasis! - when the form is changed from a public derived person to a state-owned company, to a certain extent... very clearly, especially in the case of Riga, where we also do not see this consent, and in the case of Ventspils, even more so, where all of us Members have also received the decision of Ventspils City, in which conceptually opposes this law... In fact, to a certain extent, we are now looking at it against this citizen, the municipal council... the will of the delegated representatives. We understand that without a decision of the municipality, such transfer of property should in fact be considered as a nationalisation of the municipality's property. Renting, renting or construction of property thus deprived, and charging for them without the consent of the owner, is clearly illegal in our view. There is a fundamental difference as to whether the port authority is a derived public person and subject to public law regulation, or whether it is a capital company operating in the area of private law on the basis of completely different operating principles - a principle based on one: to make profits rather than to ensure a better life, including for the population of a particular city or administrative area... and also operates on completely different principles. There is no more transparency in this governance model. I would also remind you that the public party's objective is very clearly stated, that is to ensure public interest and improve public life, whereas the capital company's objective, as I said, is completely different and the capital company operates under a completely different regulation. Consequently, a municipality may transfer property to a capital company only in cases where... an assessment of all State aid-related regulations. There is, in fact, no such regulation in this particular draft law, and such an assessment of state aid, including that of which we, including myself, have repeatedly referred to in the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Therefore, colleagues, I call on you to support this proposal from my colleague, Mr Valaiņa.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U364	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U365	The proposal was rejected by the Commission. I call for this to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U366	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 12, for - 49, for - 13. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U367	And here we come to 10. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The third, fourth and fifth paragraphs of Article 4 shall be reworded. It is a collaboration between the Legal Bureau and the Ministry of Transport. In clarifying this draft law, too, we cannot underestimate the merit of the Law Office; we were also pleased in the Commission that this complex issue has been dealt with qualitatively. And all those who took part, basically... There was practically unanimous support for this proposal. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U368	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U369	I could not say that there would have been clear support within the Commission concerned. What... At least, my observation was quite certainly that the Legal Bureau tried rather to rescue the situation - from the legal sphere - so that there were no such serious consequences, which, among other things, we also pointed out when looking at the initial... The proposal of the Ministry of Transport. But given that this proposal, 10, concerns several parts, I will speak to both the third, the fourth, the fifth, the fifth, the seventh and the ninth parts, which, by the way, we cannot rule out that these parts are certain... with a high probability of being challenged. Thus, if I speak about the third part, then the land belonging to the municipality, berths, hydrotechnical structures, civil engineering structures without the consent of the municipality to the law - the law! - the basis (others, not on the basis of the decision of the municipality, but on the basis of the law!) is transferred to the management of the new capital company. According to the lawyer, it violates Article 1 of the Satversme, the prevailing principle of the municipality, also Article 77 of the Law “On Municipalities”, Article 927 of the Civil Law, as well as Article 3 of the Law on Prevention of the wastage of Financial Resources and Property of a Public Person. The proposal disproportionately restricts the property rights of the municipality and contradicts Article 1 of the Satversme... the resulting municipal principles, which include the separation of the property of the municipality as an economically independent derived legal entity of public law... and, in fact, if we talk again, colleagues, about the representativeness of the interests of the residents of the municipality... and that is exactly what we have also pointed out on several occasions when we look at this particular proposal and also the draft law. At the same time, I draw attention to... and also recall Article 9 of the European Charter of Local Authorities, which states that local authorities are entitled to sufficient own financial resources to which they are free to take action... and other parts. The same is true if we are talking about the fourth part of the State's real estate in the port territory, but there is no reservation as regards the municipality. This applies both to the municipality of Riga and to the municipality of Ventspils. What does that mean? In fact, the fact that the municipal property located in the port area will no longer be used for municipal functions. This is less pronounced in the case of Riga. This, however, affects more the adjacent port area and the interests of its citizens... whose interests will obviously suffer. In the case of Ventspils City, this is very clear, given that the territory of terminals is only 550 hectares, but the total area of the free port is much larger, more than 2000 hectares, thus the functions of the municipality in this area and these special ones (not clear to hear). ... which are not directly used for the operation of the port terminal or for port business, are at risk and are clearly likely to suffer from it. Consequently, the overall conclusion is that the proposed regulation does not, in fact, provide any criteria for granting the consent of a capital company for the restoration of the municipality’s ownership as a landowner. It is also unclear on which principles the capital company will base its decision on, and it is not understandable whether and where the decision of the capital company not to allow the municipality to restore its ownership to its own property, in fact to the property of its residents, will be appealed against. So I see... And also, colleagues... from available information... I must, in fact, warn you to some extent, that I see rather large risks, including constitutional risks, in support of the proposal in question.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U370	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U371	For the sake of good order, I would like to remind you that legal persons governed by public law, unlike legal persons governed by private law, are established directly for the exercise of the function of public authority and form an organised system of public administration. Certain components of public administration, such as municipalities, cannot be regarded as fundamental rights in their relations with the State, so that the municipality, as a legal person governed by public law, is not, in general terms, the subject of fundamental rights and cannot rely on a breach of fundamental rights. Of course, legal persons of public law who do not possess, for example, the fundamental rights set out in Article 105 of the Satversme, may own property, they may be a legal entity in civil sense, but with regard to the use of municipal property for development of a state strategically important object such as, for example, the port State has an absolutely wide discretion. I must also mention here that the European Charter for Local Government does not, nor does it regulate in particular, the legal protection of local authorities as owner of real estate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U372	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added on behalf of the Commission, please?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U373	The Commission had strong support for this proposal, almost unanimous in principle. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U374	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - the committee's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 46, for - 7 and for - 1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U375	11. - Member Tatar's proposal. It is proposed to create a new article that has not been in the law so far... since the 1990s, but now it turns out that it is necessary - for security in the vicinity of the port. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U376	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U377	Dear colleagues, Yes, there was no such article so far, because the port also acted in accordance with other principles. If, for example, we are also talking about (A sound break.) ... the police, acting in accordance with the law, clearly that at the moment we understand that it is not possible to include such a port police in a capital company, even though someone might have wished to do so. This means that the port police will be eliminated and possibly there will be a security service. We also know different attitudes, particularly those of Mr Feldman's party, in particular with regard to security and understand that security is vital both in the vicinity of a major port and in the port area. I'm not talking about security... just about what possible serious illegal... or are smuggling or similar. I am talking about security in a much broader context. If we are talking about a specific proposal, I must stress that... on which we plan to do so - we intend to add a new article 4.1 "Security near the port"... with a new part, which provides: ‘A territory situated near a port shall be considered within the meaning of this Law to be a territory situated less than 5 kilometres from the border of the port’. In fact, if we look at it, the whole territory, including the port area itself... various activities and potential risks. Second section: ‘The port authority shall be obliged to ensure safe working and living conditions for people’s health and life in the vicinity of the port.’ They are, in fact, residential solids located at the port itself.’ Third paragraph: ‘The port authority shall be obliged to identify, prevent or reduce any harmful effects that port activities may have on human life, health or property in the vicinity of the port.’ Consequently, this proposal generally obliges the port to take care of the security of its citizens in the vicinity of the port. The exact distance of this impact is, of course, difficult to assess, so this proposal suggests that we pay particular attention initially to the nearest five kilometres at the port border, but if we find a significant impact, we have the opportunity in theory to increase this distance. Consequently, the proposal is to ask the port authority to take care of any harmful... Ports... reducing the impact on the population, including from the environmental point of view. The following proposals only specify this obligation, including the introduction of different measurements and monitoring within the port area. Therefore, colleagues, I call for the specific proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U378	The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U379	Good afternoon, colleagues! This is a proposal... If you ask the residents of Ventspils or in Riga you ask the citizens of the Lover if such a proposal is necessary in the Law on Ports, I have no doubt that the answer will be necessary, because it is already a story that at the transhipment of various cargoes, which are transhipped in ports in Riga, Ventspils and, I allow, also in Liepaja, from coal... foaming occurs by pumping oil products, ever slight leaks, connecting pipelines, as well as various other types of cargo. After all, this results in coal dust on the backs of the house, at the wrong wind direction... when the goods have been loaded when the wind direction has been determined and carried from ports to residential homes. Any one of these cases should be regulated, and if so far the municipality, as part of the Freeport Authority, would have to take care of it in the future, where the municipality would be either minority shareholders' rights or not represented at all. This is about quite a large number of different types of investment, the so-called artificial noses, which perceive the smells in the air and various other substances that should not be there and which affect human health in different ways. Therefore, to oblige this managing body of ports to make sure that, if necessary, appropriate investments are made on these environmental issues... it must be the task of that institution. That is why I am calling for support for this proposal, 11th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U380	I closed the debate. Are there any things to be explained in the name of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U381	Yes, there will be this and yet a number of proposals that have never been covered by this law and which relate, of course, to current problems relating to the protection of the environment. As the Commission has established, there are special laws governing it in Latvia, and such proposals do not need to be supported by this specific law on ports, because, first of all, other relevant laws speak about environmental protection, as well as I would remind you that there have never been such norms in this law. We also found in the Commission that there have been cases when citizens have really had to fight for the environment around ports to be protected, but no one has ever thought that this law would have any drawbacks. So that the Commission did not support this proposal, 11th.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U382	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. - Member Tatar's proposal! Please, let's vote! For -13, for -49, for -14. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U383	12. - Mr. Tatar's proposal. This time for noise. There, those arguments are similar to those set out above. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U384	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U385	Although the proposal was not supported by the Commission, we still have the opportunity to do so at present in the Saeima. I will ask your attention again, colleagues. The principle is completely changed: it is not simply a public derived person working for the people... becoming a capital company... that it is nothing and that other laws continue to function there. No, no! As a result, the involvement of the municipality and all its legal... actually linked changes... If we are talking about the environmental aspects, the safety aspects, as in the previous proposal... In this case, if we are talking about noise levels in the port area, then we... It is logical and understandable that there are noises in ports. These noises are from rail, those noises are from terminal operations, from transhipment, from bulk cargo transhipment, and so on. But the proposal... In this case, given that it is a capital company that aims at making profits rather than taking care of people's well-being, so also of noise... similar to that in other European cities (e.g. Klaipeda); as in Poland, Germany, several ports in Sweden. There are ports that are obliged to take care of this noise level, to measure these noises, to monitor them. Understand how port operations are further regulated at what point... at the same time... and what terminals and activities we allow, so that citizens living near the port can live without a significant disruption of life, so that the overall noise level does not exceed that of the actual differences... the proposals that have also been made by the European Parliament and the Council of Europe. For example, the 2002 Directive on the assessment and management of environmental noise. There, environmental noise is recognised as one of the main environmental problems in Europe. This directive also provides that data on noise in the environment must in fact be collected and compared and collected on the basis of comparisons... with comparable criteria. There are many different things... - also on the detection of this noise. It should be noted that this capital company is a new form. It's no longer a primary task... as it has been so far - to represent the interests of people, the interests of urban people - but to make a profit. Now we have to establish this by law: the capital company must also take care of... Not just about safety... for the noise, for the smell... the prevention of various other dangerous cases and activities in the vicinity of the port. Therefore, colleagues, this proposal, 12, is in essence very, very logical. We have taken the foundation... and looked at what was happening in Tallinn. Tallinn port is publicly available - is publicly available! - noise map and all noise measurements. In the port of Rotterdam, a special project called “Neptune” has even been initiated with the aim of measuring the level of noise... 11 different ports. People monitor and measure, and publish these maps to the city dwellers, whose city is home to this port - the big port... In this case, we are talking about Riga. This is just as important for Ventspils so that people know and understand what the noise level is, what the noise is at that time. And that would be clear and bright to all... intelligible. After all, noise - it is also a certain pollution of the environment. And here by law, in fact by the force of the law, we are giving a task to a capital company, which is essential, very important, to these two cities - Riga and Ventspils; we are giving such a task - monitoring noise levels (both monitoring, reflecting and informing citizens). Therefore, please support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U386	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U387	I think representatives of the Green Party should already know what laws in Latvia regulate environmental pollution and that the Law on Ports is not one of these laws. Consequently, arguments similar to those in proposal 11... And this, 12, proposal... This has never been the case in the Ports Act since it was in force (since the 1990s). The Commission was therefore not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U388	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. - Member Tatar's proposal! Please, let's vote! For -13, for -49, for -15. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U389	13. - Member Tatar's proposal. This time it is about monitoring the smells - just as in proposals 11 and 12. This proposal was not supported either.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U390	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U391	Colleagues! I would like to have some opposition. Mr Feldman, the President of the Commission, on behalf of the Commission, said that this was covered by other laws. I recall that the port is no longer the responsibility of the municipality. In this case - neither Riga, which had the motivation to represent the interests of its citizens, to engage in these issues, nor Ventspils. In the case of Ventspils, this is even more pronounced. And if we are talking about jokes, then we, colleagues, have to understand that the capacity of the State Environment Service is, to this extent, insufficient to combat this problem. In previous years, the State Environment Service both on the European... but the funds co-financed by the state budget had purchased so-called mobile smell noses, but this is absolutely insufficient. We regularly feel behind Mežaparks in Riga, from Riga... Loverave - from the port of Riga... Often, if you blow in, the winds change... And the speed of filling these bunkers has been either too big or too small - depending on the transport... mostly liquid liquid cargo. And we regularly feel these odors, intolerant odors - just as Ventspils residents often feel these intolerant odors. And we have to understand that it's also known in private... but the port should be closely, closely and closely monitored. And now it's a capital company. Since Ventspils territory, the port territory, is huge and Riga territory is huge, we no longer impose any obligation, even morals, to invest in these so-called smell noses to monitor these smells operationally, similar... how this happens in other European cities. A few years ago, in June 2018, when Rotterdam port management visited Riga, with the highest management, including state and transport management, we signed a public agreement that we would take good examples of each other. And when drafting this specific draft law – “Amendments to the Law on Ports” – the original authors repeatedly referred to the port of Rotterdam, but forgot to mention that the port of Rotterdam has the involvement of the municipality; the state... This part that came in... minority shareholder... came with huge co-financing. And he forgot to say that the port of Rotterdam - like the port - has to take care of these environmental issues. And this port, given the huge amount it is, and what happens in these major European ports... We see this port's attitude towards its citizens. And in fact, therefore, one of the essential aspects of port pollution is a straight common... This pollution, too, caused by smells. It is therefore absolutely logical, and only logical, that we are imposing a specific obligation on the new capital company - to monitor all of this, to buy appropriate measuring instruments so that citizens feel regularly and operationally at the moment when what is going on. And then where is the place... where this measuring instrument is installed... we understand how it has been done. So far, we have been faced by port operators fighting for cargo, at a time when one perhaps I will say, densities, raving up my own port, their terminals with these liquid cargoes, which are often released by these smells, someone else just... take any other action to cause problems for the other to take away the permission of the other, - fighting for these loads. And so objective monitoring is needed. And that is exactly what this proposal provides for: the monitoring of these smells. And this proposal also makes it clear that we need to carry out this assessment every year and to draw up a plan for reducing the smell that is publicly available, and to do everything possible to prevent people from feeling these frequently harmful smells too. And here I draw attention to the fact that often the most dangerous smells are those that we can not even feel with our nose, but they are very harmful to our health. That is why this monitoring of electronic smells is very important in the port. And let us be honest, the capacity of the State Environment Service in this case, taking into account the territory of these ports at the moment, does not manage it. And if we do not yet make the relevant provision in law, then the capital company will not have a direct obligation to make such investments. They will say that no law, no rule does, and they will answer it in the same way as Mr Feldman zero said, that there are already other laws governing it. Yes, we have many laws governing it, but understandably, objectively look at this picture (objectly!) - how big is Riga and Ventspils Freeport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U392	Thank you. Colleagues, we will continue the debate after a break. Members' registration is over. Interruption until 5.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U393	Dear Members and honourable Members, We shall continue to discuss the agenda of the Saeima sitting after a break. On the agenda - Draft Law on Ports Act, third reading. Let's see 13. - Member Tatar's proposal. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. ( Pause) Mr. Valaiņš, we have already given you the floor.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U394	Or how nice! I guess something didn't... The President of the sitting. Dear colleagues, I, too, call for this proposal to be supported. And I will also explain a little more to the honourable committee head, who said a moment ago that these issues - environmental issues - have already been dealt with in other laws. I will not agree that the mere fact that it is regulated by other laws will be sufficient in this case. Because, you see, before that, there was this Freeport Authority and all, since they assumed that the State and the municipality were there, they also take responsibility for it. There's, for example, all kinds of port police... whether the local police are... in some way, this cooperation mechanism is being found. In principle, it was understood who was responsible in some way for ensuring that all of this was respected. But now that a capital company is being formed... Every capital company aims to make a profit. And these environmental issues are already under the current framework quite challenging, where else, if we are talking about when a capital company will be set up. I think this will be a new situation. And if we don't set it in this law, then this new capital company, in my opinion, can play all kinds of miracles. And it may seem that it does not apply to them. As Mr Feldman said, there are other laws that deal with these issues, and then let someone... I don't know, the municipality or whatever... no matter what you're doing these questions... It's about these jokes. If we look at examples from other countries, we can see that, of course, these smells are quite serious. For example, in the same port of Rotterdam, 250 stationary and electronic so-called smell noses are placed for the monitoring of odors; they are able to control it and to take action in some way, at least in some way to determine the order - when someone has to accept some measure at the moment when these smells go somewhere. So, as Mr Tawar has already said in relation to these kinds of smells, those more dangerous are really those that the human nose is not able to feel at all. And with all this in mind, these so-called smell noses too - they are quite large investments. And someone needs to make this investment. And if we say that... at least currently, the draft law's drivers say... that there will be this new capital company that will operate in these port areas, then... It is already quite difficult to deal with these areas of responsibility - for which it is responsible. At the time of the creation of this capital company, this issue will become even more sharper and responsibility will become even greater, despite the fact that everything is written in different laws. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call on you to support this proposal tabled by Mr Tatar and in some way... However, already in the law, to say that this capital company also assumes responsibility for these issues. It would be just normal. And I think that is quite clearly what has been said here, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U395	I closed the debate. Mr. Feldman, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U396	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to point out to the Chairman of the Board of the Green Party and others that the restriction of pollution is regulated by the Law “On Pollution”, on the basis of which regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers No. 724 - ‘Regulations on methods for the determination of odours caused by polluting activity and on the procedure for limiting the spread of these odours’. It should be noted that these regulations were issued on 25 November 2014, i.e. during the previous parliamentary term. And control is carried out by the State Environment Service – also carried out in the Ventspils Freeport vicinity. Since this proposal - on the inclusion of relevant provisions in this law - was rejected by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U397	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 13. - Member Edgara Tatar's proposal! Please vote mode! For -13, for -46, for -13. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U398	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Tatar's proposal. It comes from the same series - the monitoring of dust emissions. For the sake of good order, it must be said immediately that this supervision is also carried out by the State Environmental Service. In this respect, too, this proposal was rejected by the Commission. I call for this to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U399	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U400	Dear President, Dear colleagues, I would like to point out once again that the capacity of the State Environment Service is currently insufficient. All the more so because the legal form of the free port is now in fact changing - from the function of state to the function of municipal authority changes to the regulated form of the Commercial Law, which is the state capital company. At this point, we, colleagues, realise that ports will not deal with representativeness of citizens' interests and common representation of national interests, but rather with earning, with business. And the primary task for business is to earn. We know and see how it has been historically in many other major state-owned companies in the world, especially if we look at the context of ports; the major ports are clearly committed... regulation and cooperation with local authorities are also known when ports carry out these functions. We know that, yes, also historically there have been problems in the port of Riga - and its problems are regularly repeated! - with this quantity of dust, in particular in areas close to the port but not in a free port area. We have seen these photographers - and many have also found themselves - - that people often, when opening the window, can wipe out... remains black in this hand. There are different dusts in the vicinity of the ports, so the ports... Direct involvement of the port authority is vital given that this form of management and, in fact, the task for the port is changing. We can therefore make it clear that these dust, the pollution caused by dust, mainly caused by bulk cargos, especially coal, their transhipments, various other bulk cargoes - that this type of pollution is a very important problem for citizens living near the port, especially in Riga. In fact, we... we can observe it on a regular basis; in particular, we were able to observe it at the time when some really significant activity was taking place in the port (of course we hope that this activity will resume). There have been some improvements in the port with the construction of new, more modern terminals, but still this problem has not been addressed conceptually. And that is why it is important to include in the law an article on monitoring these dust emissions. Many different methods have been developed in the world to limit the amount of dust generated - as monitored by monitoring. We know that last year, the port of Klaipeda has also carried out a publicly available study on the chemical composition of the dust particles found in it, so that people know what they are about dust, how harmful they are to the human body; whether they can cause heart and blood vessel diseases; whether they are at high risk or at lower risk or without risk, especially at what concentration. All this is very important for the population living near the ports. If we are talking about dust, this is particularly important for Rigans. That is, all these investments necessary for such monitoring, monitoring, carrying out... it must be the responsibility of the capital company. We have mentioned this example of the port of Rotterdam on several occasions: there is actually such a digital surveillance network around major bulk terminals, which responds and provides operational information on dust concentrations, dust levels and air volumes. This particular proposal... My proposal also provides for the installation in Latvian ports of such a system of monitoring for dust in order to prevent pollution at the place where it occurs and to reduce the harmful effects of these dust on the environment and human health. After all, we have included in this proposal everything - what must be done and what order must be taken - and how this information should be passed on to the municipality, how it is assessed by the municipalities, how it is published on the websites of both port administrations and municipalities in an operational manner. Let people know and see and are able to react quickly by looking at and checking this information. And with this law in mind...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U401	Time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U402	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U403	Thank you. I closed the debate. Mr. Feldman, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U404	I can only say that the proposal was rejected by the Commission. Please reject.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U405	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 14. - Member Edgara Tatar's proposal! Please vote mode! For - 15, for - 47, for - 13. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U406	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Tatar's proposal. It is also from the same series, last but not least, on the prevention of pollution. This was also not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U407	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U408	Yes, as in previous proposals, this proposal, taking into account this change in legal status, entails responsibility for the prevention of pollution from the port area for the capital company. In particular, the proposal provides that it is the port authority that is responsible for any form of pollution in the port area and also outside the port area if the pollution is caused by the port or by the operation of the port. In this respect, I would like to remind you that the law on pollution already regulates it in accordance with the polluter-pays principle; this is not the case with this particular proposal. However, the responsibility towards society is clearly and clearly defined: the responsibility towards society lies with the port authority. This excludes the possibility that the pollutant is but no one is responsible. The costs actually associated with the prevention of this pollution can then also be covered and recovered from the polluter in question by the port authority, but the port authority is primarily responsible for the pollution caused by the port. Colleagues, I understand that there are references to the law on pollution, there are several norms... and there are also regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers that currently regulate it, but once again I draw your attention to the fact that this essence of the port is actually changing and, therefore, its direct responsibilities and cooperation with the local government. In the past, such issues could be monitored and taken on responsibility jointly with the local authorities and local authorities, which also addressed these issues and became involved in this port’s activities, and represented the interests of citizens in the most direct way, whereas now... such interests have not been represented for some time. And if, in fact, this form of governance changes - it changes to a capital company - then, even more so, colleagues, we have a duty (at least for my duty) to include in the law the specific environmental standards - when and who, and who, is responsible for reducing the specific pollution of the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U409	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U410	The President of the sitting. Well, I think this law, too... I agree with Mr Tatar and I cannot finally agree with these various settings of Mr Feldman... The fact that it's already in law... and that various regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers have already been adopted - it is true, but it is necessary to listen to what Mr Tatar, who is asking for this new concept to state that this new capital company is also what is responsible for it. May there be someone who takes responsibility for society as well. This is the moment. With regard to both these pollutions and smacks, all of what Mr Tatar spoke about, and these proposals he has put forward, on which I have raised the subject, are topical. And now's control... Such a public interest defender has mainly been the Freeport Authority, wherever it is, whether it is in Riga, Ventspils or Liepaja... or something else: one of the small ports, no matter what. It was always clear who would stand up for these public interests. It was always clear where to turn, who to call when something happened. Now who will we call who will assume this responsibility? National Environment Service? If the State Environment Service calls, then... I think that we can make sure that both in Riga and elsewhere, what experience this service has in calling, and what capacity this service has at all to respond to and influence at all in these processes. It will happen here that we will have the laws and regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, but we will have a capital company - it will be created immediately - who will have the full right to pretend and also in his position to state that everything does not apply to them. I'm sorry. Unfortunately, that is the case. I therefore think that Mr Tatar's proposals are on the table and I would call for their support, it would be responsible. Well, maybe in some way... We also need to start thinking about responsibility for society and about creating some kind of appropriate system. References to those different laws - this does not change the fact that this barrack is formed. We need to make it clear who is... at least in these areas... he is responsible so that people know who to call, where to turn and who takes care of it... If a capital company works according to the principles of a capital company, then she can also simply forget about such concerns and say that this is not her problem, it is another problem – turn to the State Environment Service. And then the State Environment Service with its own capacity... It is unlikely that this will be the result that society expects of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U411	Name to Member Edgar Tavar for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U412	Thank you. I also reflect on the reference to law made by the head of the commission. I would like to read out the specific proposal that I propose: to supplement the Ports Act with a new Article 4.5 - Prevention of pollution. And this article reads: "The port authority has a duty to ensure that all pollution caused by the port is prevented, both within and outside the port area, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Pollution." I mean, colleagues, the idea is very simple, as I mentioned at the first time. If a port operator, such as a private authority, a private organisation, a private company, causes serious environmental pollution, so that there is no situation where the port authority says: we do not know anything, turn to this company. Is this company solvent, or is he able to pay for this... to prevent this environmental pollution at its own expense? He'll look for the guilty, find the reservations, look for and point out to a subcontractor, as we've often experienced... Also outside the port areas... including - when someone has ever squandered any chemicals. Not often responsible. Here we state that - in accordance with the law on pollution - the port authority eliminates these consequences and then - in accordance with the polluter pays principle - can bring an action against the economic operator in question. But the primary environmental commitments, vis-à-vis the residents of a particular municipality (in this case it is likely to apply to Riga, but also to Ventspils), are taken directly by the municipality... it is not a municipality but that specific capital company. Thus, all benefits are from both environmental aspects, looking at the aspects of the population, but costs can then be adjusted in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U413	Time. I closed the debate. Mr. Feldman... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U414	I would like to remind you that this draft law... In general, port reform is a port management reform. And the functions assigned to the managing body of ports by other laws or regulations do not change from what form this administration is. Is it a public derived legal entity, is it a capital company,... I don't care. Consequently, the port authority is the port authority. This draft law is also about managing ports everywhere... port authority. So there's no one here... Every time... And even the verses, what... a lot of things have not been changed in this bill, because everyone understands... So the port administration - it's just a concept. And now we only do what its port authority will do. Everything else, all the laws in the base, remains in force as it is. And this proposal has also been rejected by the Commission in this regard. I call for this to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U415	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 15. - Member Edgara Tatar's proposal! Please vote mode! For - 12, for - 50, for - 17. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U416	16. - Mr Valaina's proposal. It is essentially aimed at reforming the management of these ports by providing that the port authority may also be a state or municipal capital company, or a municipal institution. This is contrary to what the Saeima has decided at previous reading. That is why the proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U417	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U418	I would like to see a procedure... if you could, please.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U419	Then you must apply to speak about the procedure. You are now in the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U420	I don't want to debate, but the procedure... if possible.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U421	You need to write an email - so you can apply. There is a procedure for applying in the e-Parliament environment to talk about the procedure. The debate on proposal 16 is currently under way. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U422	Yes, colleagues, this proposal... That's right, the head of the commission said that this is the third reading, but I still called... I believe, however, that, although there is a third reading, it is not too late to debate this proposal, because this proposal essentially provides for the possibility for port authorities - as local authorities - to work in the general public interest and not economically private interests. And this form - a capital company or a municipal institution... It should remain, however, a case to be decided by the local government and the state after that, on the basis of a proper assessment - both an assessment of regulatory enactments and an assessment of any objectives of a capital company (like as already provided for in regulatory enactments). Now, in my view, this form that is being implemented... this form, which is being implemented in connection with the forced introduction of this port reform... on the part of the municipality and on the property of the municipality... is not, in its entirety, lawful. And I couldn't say it right now. Therefore, this form of capital company will always be profit-oriented, similar to that of capital companies... purpose as it is. If it were an institution, we would also say clearly and clearly that this port would also work in the interests of citizens, because if the port is located in the city and occupying a significant part of the city, it is inextricably linked... and the authorities this... it would be much, much clearer and much better, too, if we are also looking at the dialogue with these port entrepreneurs, because this should be borne in mind too. Now, I think port businessmen go on this line... for a capital company... Well, if it is implemented, they will experience a huge disappointment, and I think all the port entrepreneurs were promised by the government... Looking at how the debate took place in the parliamentary committee... Definitely certain port entrepreneurs will face huge disappointment. I think they have not yet understood it themselves, but it is only a matter of time when this capital company will understand that it is not enough that it is necessary to have a port simply because they are dealing with the collection of port charges... put somebody... a moor, maybe you need to make a joke, maybe you need a little... to create a chapter of stevedores and to do its own business in that niche. Maybe we need to figure out something else. And that, I think, is a rather big threat to these port entrepreneurs themselves if this capital company starts operating in the niche where the private business is currently operating. Is that necessary? In my opinion, it is necessary to be honest in the implementation of this reform. And if it were municipalities... or if the form was... the form of governance should be the form of an institution, where these issues would automatically be removed and it would be absolutely clear, then define what they are dealing with and so on. Now... In the Commission itself, the idea that this capital company could potentially... As mentioned here... that invest something outside the port and operate, and so on. It's just a matter of time when they're going to start up with various other things and in principle go private business, and we're gonna have to... We'll have participated... You'd rather have taken part... Well, the creation of a capital company, with which you will have to learn by yourself, is explained by the Competition Council, whose opinion on this issue is not clear yet. What exactly is the Competition Council's view? I see that the Competition Council is hitting and fluttering with municipalities, but here it is complete silence. Therefore, my fellow Members, this proposal would not change anything at all, but would give us the opportunity to do so. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U423	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U424	Firstly, Mr Valaiņa is also clearly misleading Members of the Saeima, because already at second reading this bill has voted that the port authority will not be able to provide cargo handling services. Secondly, unfortunately, I have to remind you that the municipalities themselves are also setting up capital companies, and the argument could be applied as well: as then, they should be... they must only be profit making. Good examples in Ventspils are “Vadeka” Ltd, “Ventspils real estate”, “Ventspils improvement kombināts”, “Ventspils flight”, “Ventspils heat”, “Ventspils market”, “VENTTESTS” Ltd. and various other capital companies, where in reality, I would say, for the size of Ventspils it is a very large number. So that argument too, of course, does not pass any criticism. And the third thing I wanted to highlight is that this draft law, to be more accurate, provides a justification for the clear reasons why the management of the ports of Latvia has chosen a model of capital companies. And it is clear from the annotation that before drafting the law on this issue, a study was prepared, which analysed various issues related to changing the Latvian port management model, evaluating also port management models abroad. The relevant study is, by the way, publicly available on the website of the Cabinet of Ministers, and among other things, it concludes that changing the port management model by transforming the port administration into a capital company or applying the requirements of the capital company management is becoming a common practice, thus ensuring greater independence and discretion of the port authorities. So even all this information is available on the Cabinet's website. Given that there are not only three opposing arguments that I said, but a number of others are also known to the members of the Commission, the Commission strongly rejected this proposal. I call for this to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U425	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U426	Colleagues, I will answer the commission manager... and the head of the commission is to a large extent misleading you, because why a capital company is needed has nothing to do with changing governance and putting in place some governance principles. What he just told you... So this proposal, which bans this capital company from doing some kind of business... in the field, shows that this capital company... Then the question is: why is such a capital company in general necessary, why is this form of capital company chosen? At that point, it's losing its meaning. The only point to make is that it makes sense to have a capital company listed on the stock exchange. That is the only point. It is not possible to have a municipal or municipal authority listed on the stock exchange, it is possible to have a stock exchange listed on the stock exchange. And what would that be? This would be the privatisation of the whole of this port, and that is what the BIP is trying to achieve, in the hope that they will be here somewhere else in the future, at the moment, but unfortunately... I think that something like this will not be allowed with regard to port privatisation. Therefore, colleagues, I am asking you to listen to it, because there is simply no other reason why capital companies are so much needed, you will not find any logical explanation in this law why capital companies are needed. The only one is a capital company that can be listed on the stock exchange. Yeah. I agree with that. President of the House, I appeal to you. I have received a message from another Member of the Saeima - Mr Gobzem - that he cannot apply for a debate, that there is something in the system that does not allow him to do so, so... information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U427	I closed the debate. Mr. Feldman, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U428	On behalf of the Commission (repeat) I must inform the Members of the Saeima that Mr Valaiņš is deliberately misleading the Saeima because this draft law... speaking exactly about the fact that the port will be privatised and similarly - the second draft of this law... When examining draft laws at second reading, Members of the Saeima supported the rule that shares in the capital company cannot be pledged and can only be disposed of between holders of shares, thus allowing this hypothetical possibility that owners can agree on something in theory between themselves, but that they cannot be disposed of to anyone else. Privatisation is a expropriation, so I am calling for the code of conduct not to be violated by any Member in this debate. This proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U429	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 16. - Member Viktoras Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! For -13, for -49, for -15. The proposal is not supported. Dear Members, Honourable Members! The Saeima Bureau has received a request from Member Alda Gobzem that he wishes to speak about the procedure. Please enable mode as a procedure. Mr Gobzem, please apply. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U430	Two things. First thing. I have filmed several videos - at several debates. For me, the system does not allow us to apply in the debate, with very few exceptions, an opportunity to apply when other Members have applied. I'm physically in that system... technical inability to do so. I have also sent other Members. Mr. Valaiņš can assure you. I want Mr Valaiņa to come to the debate - that he has seen those videos - that they are not just my words. And the other thing. I would like to ask for the quorum to be checked at this sitting because, as far as I am aware, some of the members of the position have ended with interoperable certificates and it is not understandable how the term of validity of the certificates is being examined by the chairman of the committee before the Saeima meeting. As we know, in accordance with the law, without a valid certificate, the sittings of the Saeima cannot take part, so decisions taken may not be legitimised. I call on the opposition to ignore the quorum test. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U431	Dear colleagues, If any of you have technical problems with your Saeima computer and other devices at your disposal, the e-Parliament process, the use of an e-signature, please contact the Saeima Administration. You are also sent text messages within a certain period of time that such communication should be carried out, perhaps you should check again whether you have all the necessary access to e-government. Please contact the Saeima Administration - you will receive help. At any time, you also have a chance... At present, you can get help in your working offices at the Saeima. If you are remote, then without knowing where you are, of course, we cannot provide all this help. So please contact me. Yesterday you had contacts with the Saeima Administration, indicated your phone number in both e-mails and text messages, how you can contact us about questions... technical matters. With regard to the quorum check, the roll of order of the Saeima shall determine the procedure by which Members may request such a check. Therefore, we shall continue to examine the draft law ‘Amendments to the Ports Act’, third reading. On behalf of the Commission, is Member Krišjānis Feldmans. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U432	17. - Member Tatar's proposal. It is also on the same subject, against what Members have decided at second reading. So go back to the fact that the port authority is a derived public person. Of course, such a proposal was rejected by the Commission and I already put forward arguments on the previous proposal. Please reject.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U433	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U434	Please combine the two times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U435	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U436	First of all, I would like to reflect (on the previous proposal) on Mr Feldman. My colleague Mr. Valaiņa pointed to a possible sentence in this case... a proposal following the adoption of this law, which would rule out the provision that you mentioned, which would automatically make these capital companies privatisationable. That was the probability that my colleague made and pointed out as high as possible. But on the 17th proposal. Colleagues! Currently, the Freeport of Riga, the Freeport of Ventspils acts as derived legal persons of public law. The aim was in fact the performance of public administration functions, in this case we are talking about the performance of municipal functions, including. Now... The new model of the capital company envisages operating according to completely different laws, actually doing (and promoting) profit making, doing business. Whether a business is profitable or not we don't know. The Law on State Administration Equipment requires an assessment before such decisions are taken. There is no assessment. Do we, colleagues, really understand what we are going on? We want to put one big, big giant on a clay foot, without knowing if this giant will be able to hold on to his feet at all. We are absolutely clear that these errors will have to be corrected. I have also pointed out several times in previous commissions... in the work of the commissions, when examining this proposal, other related proposals, to the homework that needs to be done. Consequently, this proposal also provides, as I also mentioned at the meeting of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy on 12 January... I believe that to consider this law... it was in fact necessary to ascertain whether all the capital company’s activities had been carried out and the necessary assessment had been carried out before the creation of that capital company. What we see is that the evaluation required by Article 88 of the Law on Public Administration does not... economic evaluation. I asked about the business plan several times - whether it is. If we move to a completely different management model, is there a plan, will they ultimately deserve it at all, will there be cargoes, what cargoes? On what basis? Where is economic justification? In this case... We've heard it ever... there are student firms or student firms, or training firms, where perhaps a low-capital SIA... where people invest one euro without knowing how this business will develop or not. But we're not talking about it here. Here we are talking about hundreds of millions of assets. Here we are talking about the territory of Riga, the assets of Riga - hundreds of millions, colleagues! We are talking about Ventspils city assets, about the territory, which is 42 percent of Ventspils territory... we invest in a capital company. And, after all, do these municipalities agree? Have these municipalities been asked for decisions as to whether to enter into this capital company? No decision of Riga City Council! No decision of Ventspils City Council! No one has asked for such a decision. It's from the series if we now say that Mārupe Municipality has to go to airBaltic's capital company... In. In. I think they'd think they'd think about whether this capital company would work with the benefits, or whether there would be the dividends promised? Where is this business plan? How can we say that there will be dividends? Or, in the end, we'll have to invest... Is that so? Perhaps quite the other way round: then, the city's money must continue to be invested in increasing the share capital or covering any losses. There's no business plan, colleagues! Validity assessment... Is there a utility assessment? There is no assessment of suitability! Impact, competition assessment. I have repeatedly asked, at one of the first sittings, even the Competition Council to ask for an opinion. We had a lot of time to prevent this possible risk. No, this opinion has not even been asked: the assessment of the Competition Council in writing, where they would say it, is whether there is a restriction of competition or not. This is also the case for the assessment of State aid. Is such support... to assess whether or not there are risks here, including a clear response from the European Commission... rather than a prima facie assessment, a real assessment of this plan as a whole. What we see is that, until the third reading, articles are constantly changing, including very important articles... this law. That means... the country, as appropriate, currently in accordance with the laws in force... which includes, among other things, the Ministry and Saeima... is not ready for this capital company in fact, either, to be implemented according to all its criteria. The OECD principles of good governance on this... include... Also by managing the property of derived public persons... we have left completely aside and neglected, continuing to exist as it has been until now - not as a capital company, but as a derived legal entity of public law... it operates, remembers, on the principle of public law and in fact the scope... the principles included. As a result, these risks would be reduced, for which I have repeatedly pointed out that we are all citizens (not just the state, not just the local authorities... Rigans and Ventspilss - all residents of the country!) We can suffer a lot. Colleagues, here really need assessments, black to white. We don't open our companies, we don't invest in assets, we don't make SIA with huge loans, investing our parents and relatives... and the whole quarter as share capital in risk, without knowing exactly what business we will do. Everything we have... For us only the officials of the UK-led Ministry, the officials!... Neither Minister nor Parliamentary Secretary... In practice, I have never heard in the Commission once the parliamentary secretary say that the mouth would open on this proposal, given the huge amount of... what resources of the population are invested in this capital company. There is no answer, no evaluation, only Mr Feldman - on behalf of the Commission - said that it will be better, it will be better. On what basis? Let's show you it'll be better! If we all knew that it would be better, then we would have saved this debate. If it were--repeated, business plan; we foresee it, that; model changes it; easier to work, all better... No questions. But there are problems here, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U437	Time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U438	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U439	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U440	The President of the sitting. Very, very honorable Mr. Feldman! I understand your wish as commission manager to actively point out that there will be no privatisation here, but you also understand me. I'm here and... I can't explain why these processes are managed in such an achronges as just... during the whole time of this BIP, since you are driving the transit sector. Not me, the drivers of reform - things like this - about stock exchange quotations and everything else... Such fantasies are expressed. That's not what I'm saying. And it's nothing more than a step towards privatisation, call it what you want, I understand it as a privatisation. Please correct if I'm not legally correct, but it's state property... possibility to acquire this state property in this way, to start with some parts, then more. The fact that you're saying that it's impossible... It seems to me, however, that this is the only realistic objective that is being understood for this reform. If Mr Tatar's proposal were to be supported, that would, of course, not be possible. Well, then! - this question has been postponed, and that would not be possible. If we look at how these ports are currently managed, it's catastrophic. It is under any criticism. You now have the opportunity to implement OECD principles and various... whatever you don't call there... good governance. What prevents you from doing this right now? You can do all this. You can do it today, tomorrow... Yesterday. Everything could have been, it could have already been done. Full power, even this law is not needed! All power has been in your hands for two years. And where is the result? Why do we need a law in order to implement some governance principles? When it comes to governance. This law is only necessary to then look for some kind of hooky ways to privatise everything. Call it as you want - the attraction of an investor, something else. The fact that the ports are now consciously or unconsciously - and I very much hope that unconsciously, it would be tragic if it were conscious - has been led to... when it was already - colleagues, it has already been! - state investments in port activities, the State has provided guarantees for port development. Unbelievablely simple. We are already in such a situation at the moment. If, as it has been until now, there will be a year, two years and we will have to talk about where ports to take money for the main activity, so that there is someone who digs out their canal there to have the berths arranged. Money will have to be sought either from the state budget or from the edge or from the municipalities to try to get out. Maybe all this is done with just one idea: to weaken these ports so little that you can't go down below, and then you'll find this white, fluffy investor who will come and help Latvia to raise the ports again and in a way... One part of it will be cut off for yourself. So that, my colleagues, I remain with my reflections, I do not see any other, logical explanation for all this. Mr. Tatar, with his questions, too... Unfortunately, it's all... Since we've had this law in the Saeima... There has not been any explanation for this - a reasonable explanation... beyond the fact that everyone says that there is good governance and that there is something else that you know, but a really read document - that we can read and understand everything. It was, it was! - such an entry, and you know what was written in this entry? A good example of why a capital company should be formed is the “port of Venta”. Colleagues, that was just comedy! How can you record something like that? But it recorded. ‘ The port of Venta is a good example of why all the others should be converted into capital companies. On the basis of such a commission, the reform of port management is currently under way. Colleagues, I call for support to be given to 17. - Mr. Tatar's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U441	I closed the debate. Mr. Feldman, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U442	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to remind you that the proposal was rejected. I also call on you, dear colleagues, to reject this.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U443	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 17. - Member Edgara Tatar's proposal! Please vote mode! For -14, for -50, for -13. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U444	18. - Mr Valaina's proposal. Well, basically... with this proposal, he would simply like to change the proportion - capital companies should belong to the state and the municipality concerned in equal shares. As we know... I must remind you that we are carrying out this port reform in general because the Saeima also adopted appropriate decisions on 12 December 2019 which the President of Latvia later announced - on amendments to the Ports Act, where the Cabinet of Ministers was asked to assess the compliance of the Latvian port management model with the international principles of good governance and to submit to the Saeima by 1 July 2020 a draft law on changing the Latvian port management model. At that time, the said task was justified by the statement on the planned activities of the Cabinet of Ministers led by Artura Krišjānis Kariņš that the principles of management of the state capital companies of the OECD will be applied in the activities of the major ports, the influence of the state in decision-making will be increased and more efficient use of resources will be ensured, the model of management of the major ports will be evaluated and reformed, as a priority solution for their transformation into state capital companies. ( Please refer also to the law adopted by this Saeima...) Draft Law No 515/Lp13 annotation.) And, on the basis of the declaration, the Cabinet of Ministers has drafted and presented to the Saeima precisely this draft law, fulfilling the task assigned to it by the legislator - dealing with changing the port management model and, as I said before, thus directly increasing the country's influence. Members of the Saeima have already voted in favour of this draft law at a previous reading, so... The shares will be distributed: 60 for the state, 40 for the municipality... almost equally, however, by making it clear that the country can set a more strategic course and, of course, this consistency was also retained at third reading. So, knowing all this, the members of the Commission absolutely... of those who took part... almost unanimously rejected this proposal. I also call on you to reject proposal 18. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U445	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U446	Very respectful Head of the sitting! I could not go on with this proposal, especially after a very long explanation from the committee's chairman about what had happened both within the Commission and before the Commission. Therefore, I will also try to respond to this clarification. It's really a lot... such a variety of taste words was in relation to what was written in the government declaration - that there has been an evaluation and that this law has been obtained. It is all true, but the question is whether anyone has looked at what is then written in this assessment mentioned by Mr Feldman. I had the opportunity, and I looked at what was written there, and it was written that the “port of Venta” was created. And “port of Venta”... Colleagues, can anyone answer, what is even the “port of Venta”? What kind of formation is that? What is it designed for? What about her at all... Is that so? And that's not enough. It was also recorded that it is positive that this capital company has a positive balance... So because the Venta osta, a capital company... Which one... practically no one has any sense of what it is at all - neither for investors nor for bankers. Everyone looks at and wonders what this “port of Venta” is like... What are they... He'll take something... What is happening now? At a very rapid pace, formed this capital company, and - see! - they have a positive balance. They have a positive balance and on that basis we are reforming all our ports. That is what has been written in these very extensive assessments by Mr Feldman. Colleagues, it's childish! It's childish -- based on such a... We are now justifying the implementation of such a reform on the basis of very "high" professional judgment. What I am calling for in this proposal is for this parity to be set at 50:50. If you are already forming this capital company, make sure that this relationship is equal. It has worked - such a model - where the relationship is in balance... has worked all this time. And it was like a person who was publicly disposed of, but now it will be like a capital company. Why can't it not continue to act as a capital company in such a regime and make this port serve the interests of the whole of society and find a compromise for those citizens... where the port is. This is how the model has worked. If you're looking at examples from other countries where capital companies are, there's more... We have already talked about it - there the municipality dominates and the state participates in some kind of... the minority interest. In this case, if we go... with this approach, colleagues, we will get to it... and, according to those letters that have reached the e-mails of all of us, Members of the Saeima, now... where the municipality already... At least one – “Ventspils port” – already points to their concerns... it suggests that this municipality, with a very high probability, could not participate in the formation of the capital company, since the capital company does not only represent a potential dividend. If there is a loss, it will also mean investments in the maintenance of this capital company. If currently the municipality looks at and evaluates how with full power - with full power, with all possibilities! - At the moment, the state alone is running the port administration, leaving the municipalities aside, it is only a matter of time that, even on the condition that there is the same coalition in Riga that is in the government, I think that the Riga governors will at some point turn out to be creating a budget, when the port is instead of giving them something in the budget, on the contrary, will say: “The Dear Riga Council, in order for this capital company to operate further, needs a grant of a few million.” I want to see what the Riga City Council will then say about this, that its assets, capital... all invested there and still to be paid annually. At this point in time, all economic indicators show that this will be the case, and I think it is right to set a similar balance, but not to give the country arrogant weight. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U447	Mr. Feldman, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U448	This proposal is not in line with what Members of the Saeima have previously decided and is also not in line with the view of the majority of members of the committee. It was therefore rejected. I call for this to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U449	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 18. - Member Viktoras Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! For -14, for -52, for -15. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U450	19. - Member Tatar's proposal. So it's about the governing board. There must be a board - as a publicly derived legal entity up to now - four and four so that no one would possibly have a majority. This proposal is not in line with the concept of this draft law, so the Commission also rejected the 19th proposal. I call for this to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U451	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U452	Dear President, With this proposal, I continue to maintain my principle of establishing an equivalent level of state and local government... actually in my case... as I mentioned earlier, the involvement of port cities and port authorities in managing the port, because only equivalent investment in their work, energy and responsibility can lead to a result that not only the port but also the specific municipality where the port is located. The situation where the port and its city can conflict is the worst, it means big... the consequences for the country as well as for the specific population. This law unfortunately places this conflict at its very root. We understand and see well that the Riga City Council does not have a decision at the moment, but what we have heard, let us not hide, that there have been any informal agreements... it is at the current conditions, at the current management of Riga City Council, which is not interested in the economic development of the city in the port area. There is exactly the same thing in Ventspils. But we can face very serious problems in the future, and that is why there is this specific proposal that would create mutual interest, both on the national side and on the municipal side. And I will be able to read the specific proposal: “Each of the Board of the Port of Riga and the Board of the Port of Ventspils has eight board members...”. We retain the principle that was so far, until the country actually intervened in this port, especially if we are talking about Ventspils as the first. We see and remember that time... What were the results and what were the results at the time when the country was fully taken over. Therefore, there are four board members who represent the municipality and who are appointed and dismissed by the respective municipality, in this case we are talking about the decision of the city council... and four representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers representing the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development and appointed and released by the Cabinet of Ministers. And here, colleagues, we need to understand that the municipality is very important... interest of the municipality, co-operation of ports in environmental aspects, security aspects, development aspects with the... and the country. And the state - it's not just the Ministry of Transport, managed by the UKP. Not at all! Port - this is economic development. There must be a Ministry of Economics. There are investments or returns from this port. The Ministry of Finance has to be there. There's got to be... We talked earlier... you rejected all environmental issues... Therefore, historically there was a representative of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development and he has to be there - in these large ports - from the environmental aspects of regional development. That's why this responsibility between municipalities and the state... that the state is not a single ministry, leading, political, but several... economic, financial, regional and... The Ministry of Transport... However, transit, port operations, everything... these four ministries. There is a logic here that would contribute to a truly balanced, even development of these ports, and hence to the development of the State and the interest of the State. Therefore, there is a specific proposal, which provides for the specific composition of the board - local government and state-equivalent co-operation of this administration... managing and achieving strategy and results. Colleagues, I call for support for this, 19, proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U453	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U454	Colleagues, since the 18th proposal was not supported, this 19th proposal would be in the right place. In principle, if they are not part of the capital which you could offer to the municipality in an equivalent form, then at least the composition of the board at the decision-making - there would be an equivalent form. This, in my opinion, would be a basis for avoiding possible cooperation, well, such shortcomings in the future... work. However, if there is a mutual understanding that there is no power, it is a demonstration of power. Dear colleagues, understand that you are setting up a port and calling it national and strategic, and everything else, and that now the country will take and do... That's good. But if you do not find contact points with the municipality, you will find that the municipality has a number of other instruments - a number of other instruments! - to affect the operation of the port if its interests are not taken into account. And that will in no way be an encouraging circumstance. This will be a direct delay. And if, not, the God, in one of the municipalities and in one of these ports, begins muscle demonstration - which is stronger and has greater influence over the processes - the biggest victim will be the Latvian economy, residents, those who work in these places. If this parity is not observed, it is very likely that this will happen. If the port authority suddenly comes up with something like to invite a businessman in this port area that is in the city centre to do something dangerous... especially dangerous cargo handling and if the municipality is against, what will the municipality have the opportunity to influence such a decision? One is to show strength. If force is demonstrated, there will be a counter-response using other instruments at the disposal of the municipality to influence such decisions, and this will also affect other areas and other sectors. That is what needs to be understood, it is an inevitable situation. Now it turns out... Similar things have been happening there for years... Right now... in these few years, since the state has taken over full control of these ports... governance, but potential these risks must somehow be managed. You want to try some cargo records at a time when you've already landed this port, it might be quite big. And at the end of the day... at a time when this dispute between the state and the municipality will arise, the question is what the instruments will be to deal with. At present, this is not the case in the draft law. In the past, what Mr. Tawar is now offering... Okay, go your capital company... Take most of the shares, but keep parity 50 at decision-making: 50. If this parity is the case, it requires the state to agree with the municipality on any issue, find an opinion, and block both the municipality and the state. So far it has worked, and no one! - a case where it has disrupted development... I'm hard to name. Well, colleagues, name someone, think about when there have been cases in the port of Ventspils, where there has been a country and a municipality standing against each other... Well, what... specifically on development issues. It's hard for me to remember such questions. If the country didn't like anything, it could block anyone - anyone! - decision. And just like the municipality. And it forced both sides to sit at the table and seek compromises. That should be the case. There is no such form in this law at present. Only a demonstration of force. And you yourself, fellow Members, know that you cannot, unfortunately, be able to go anywhere with a force demonstration. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U455	Name to Member Edgar Tavar for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U456	Colleagues! To add to what Mr Valaiņa said, and also to what I mentioned in the first paragraph, there are colleagues here too, this balanced offer to keep this 50 against 50 - the municipality and the state - and, when there are four ministries-led representatives approved in the Cabinet of Ministers, it is also a certain risk management. If we put all the eggs in one basket, we have a very high risk. I don't want to point out here any abusive, perhaps time-dangered crime, but in this case it's... in fact, we can literally say that there is a multi-eye principle here. And I am also thinking of political responsibility, if at this moment this specific proposal provides for the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, then we see that the Ministry of Economics is now under the responsibility of the National Association, the Ministry of Finance, the New Unity, the Ministry of Transport, the New Conservative Party, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Development/About! They are a number of political forces, they are mutual responsibility, supervision, and, among other things, if we look at legislation, we also have an understanding of what is happening in the port. And if suddenly the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development listens to what I have said earlier about these noise levels and pretends that we will now be a quiet city, and accepts rules that there can be no noise at all, this will lead to no operation in the port at all. Not a balanced offer, because people, their representatives, are kept fast... It will not be, it will be a capital company under the responsibility of another ministry. Therefore, colleagues, it is quite essential, both from a wide range of risks, development risks, in order to reduce someone's... in fact we are beginning to degrade our ports and our economy... but on the contrary, so that we can develop them, there must be these four ministries in close cooperation with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U457	Mr. Feldman, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U458	On behalf of the Commission, I can only say that this proposal was rejected. I call for this to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U459	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 19. - Member Edgara Tatar's proposal! Please vote mode! For -14, for -50, for -15, for -50, for -15. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U460	Further 20. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal, which intends to adjust the parts of the national... on the national side of the ministries hold their own shares. Now Members have also expressed their views on this at second reading. Neither did the Commission change anything. Members of the Commission were not satisfied with this proposal and it was rejected. I therefore call for this to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U461	The vote has been requested. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 20. - Member Viktoras Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! For - 12, for - 52, for - 13. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U462	Very good, thank you. So go on 21. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport, Telelys Linkait. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U463	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U464	22. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U465	Let us start a debate. Name... So Members are in favour. Mr Tawar has not signed up to the debate anymore.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U466	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U467	Thus, Member Augulis withdrew the request for a vote, so Members support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U468	Further 24. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. And it wasn't supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U469	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U470	Very respectful Head of the sitting! Colleagues! This proposal provides for a clear procedure for the appointment of port authorities, which would be consistent with all OECD principles of good practice. First of all, the proposal already offers the members of the managing board of ports to be selected through an open and public tender. Of course, I continue to insist on the fact that four board members represent the state and four represent the municipality. And then the members of the managing board of the port appoint the chairman of the management board from among themselves, and also appoint the managing body of the port in an open and public procedure. The proposal provides that the remuneration of the board members and the manager of the port is included in the single system of remuneration of the public administration so that we do not have any jumps from this outside and thus eliminate the concerns about the port as an additional means of earning to politically close persons. Colleagues, we are now watching the achievements of this power, the state, this government in managing ports. We hear, we also hear a lot today in this debate - Mr Feldman mentions the principles of good governance, but have we heard about one time a ministry... Either, for example, Development/About! or BIP... Well, the BIP may not take an example, let's take Development/About!. Development/About! was strongly opposed to these OECD principles. These OECD principles were also addressed by the New Unity. But can we say one example: "Yes, we have now taken the ports under the control of the full state. It all happened with a huge pump. All this was done well.” But can anyone remember at least one case, when with full power and full resources, they would have announced at least one competition for these members of the board - even one for the whole period of time!Is that so? The fact that these members of the board are well paid is well known. But does anyone remember just one case of compliance with the current regulation, these OECD principles? Does anyone remember perhaps a huge rush when one day or a week was to be accepted... irrespective of when these principles could not be adhered to, what reasons... understand that? And, the new unity, where are these good principles? Development/About!... You have had the opportunity to implement these principles of good governance for several years. I haven't heard anything like that at all. Everyone loves to talk, but when you have to do it, unfortunately, action is lost. And that is what happens, unfortunately, in port management too, so I also propose that the law be laid down that not only should we talk about these things, that there will be good governance here and so, but that these principles must indeed also be respected. I think it is a very coherent proposal. And I would also call for this to be supported and really try to put it into life. Otherwise it will happen that we create capital companies and then someone will sit in an office and see who of the colleagues in the party or who's close or who... you know, god just knows what criteria... And then, in the press, you'll be right why either one or the other has been chosen. If it were an open competition, we would not have such questions. And if these principles were really respected. Unfortunately, at this point in time, we can all find the fact that these principles are not respected, and I suspect that no one is going to follow them in the future. I therefore call for this proposal to be supported if you have anything on this subject at all... The OECD is important, apart from calling them in front, but when it comes to doing so, unfortunately, no one is prepared to talk about these and really do it on the basis of openness. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U471	I closed the debate. Mr. Feldman, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U472	I would like to remind you that the Commission was not supported. I also call on the Saeima not to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U473	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 24. - Member Viktoras Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! For - 15, for - 49, for - 16, for - 16. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U474	Next 25. - Member Tatar's proposal. The Commission was also not supported. I call for this to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U475	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U476	Colleagues! Also on the above points. It is absolutely clear that, at the moment, port reform is not prepared at the level that would have been necessary. In the process of preparing this draft law, the principle of good law, which results from Article 1 of the Satversme, requires compliance with the laws in force as well as their alignment with the new norm, is not respected. The Ministry of Transport has not developed all necessary assessments, analyses, business plans, also the provisions of Article 88 of the Law on State Administration Equipment have not been complied with. The Ministry of Transport has also failed to observe these capital companies... has assessed the impact on competition and the necessity and appropriateness of the State aid envisaged by the capital company. The representatives of the Ministry of Transport, moving this particular draft law, have not demonstrated that the creation of a capital company will in any way contribute to the development of the port, and will in any way contribute to the development of the municipality, the city in whose administrative territory the port is located. There is still no opinion of the Competition Council. Nor has a full opinion been received from the European Commission. It should be recalled that on 17 November 2020, the European Commission responded only on the intention to form a capital company - on the intention alone. It does not, at all, include any assessment of these potential State aid... from the funds invested by the State and the municipality in a capital company. And there is no assessment of the contribution from the resources of a derived public person, in fact free port administration, if we are talking about competition. At the same time, it is still unclear to us whether the envisaged State aid to the capital company is permissible, whether it is lawful, or whether we will ultimately not receive any very important claim that it is anti-competitive. Unlike a derived public body, a capital company is active in the area of private law, which also has a significant impact on competition, both at local and European level, and ultimately on the European Union's common market. The ports of Riga and Ventspils are also included in the TEN-T - trans-European transport network. This should also be taken into account. Finally, even without the assessment of the Cabinet of Ministers, the opinion of the Competition Council and the coordination of the European Commission, State aid is in fact not possible for the establishment of a legal core capital company. I have therefore prepared and tabled this specific proposal, 25, to exclude Article 8 of the draft law, which concerns the addition of Article 8.1 of the Ports Act, until all the above facts are assessed. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call for this specific proposal to exclude the additions.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U477	Mr. Feldman, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U478	This proposal was not supported by the Commission as it is the wording of Article 8.1, which is supported at second reading, where, in addition to the decisions laid down in the Public Equity and Corporate Governance Act, the general meeting of shareholders decides on the approval of the medium-term budget and the approval of the internal control system. In my opinion, this is a very good article, it should not be excluded, and Members also thought the same way in the Commission, so they rejected this proposal. I call for this to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U479	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 25. - Member Edgara Tatar's proposal! Please vote mode! For -14, for -50, for -15, for -50, for -15. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U480	26. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport, Telelys Linkait. Basically technical. So there was the idea of these words... Wherever there is, for example... ‘Representative of the municipality of Riga’ is replaced by ‘Representative of the municipality of Riga’. First of all, not only in this place, but at all, there was a discussion, and perhaps in other places of the law. But we decided that this was not necessary at all, because every reader understands which municipality it is about. That is why we did not support this proposal from Mr Linkaita in the Commission. I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U481	Members have requested a vote. Please call me! To be put to the vote on 26. - the proposal submitted by the Minister of Transport, Farly Linkait! Please vote mode! For - 10, for - 53, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U482	Next 27. - Member Tatar's proposal for the establishment of a new chapter called "Co-operation between the Port Authority and the Port City". So far, such a cooperation problem has not been identified, and the new administration is expected to have a very important role for the municipality and, of course, it is also involved in managing the port authority. So... This proposal was examined and rejected by the Commission. I call for this to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U483	Dear Members, honourable Members, It is time for the next break at the sitting. Debate on the current 27. - Let's start the proposal from Member Edgars Tatar after a break. The break will be 15 minutes - until 19.15. Only registration of the presence of Members. It's been a success. So the break in the sitting by 7.15 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U484	Good evening, dear colleagues! We shall continue the second remote emergency sitting of the Saeima on February 10, 2022. We look at the draft law on "Amendments to the Ports Act" and continue the debate on the 27th proposal. Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U485	Dear President, Colleagues! Cooperation between the port authority and the port city - Proposal 27. And it is worth reminding here that until December 2019 cooperation between the port and the port city was self-evident, because the state and municipality representatives were active in the administration of the port on equal terms and conditions, but, for example, in December 2019, the administration of the Ventspils port was completely changed, in fact the representatives of the municipality were excluded from the management of the port and only the state representatives came to the port without competition. We're obviously... right now. see the consequences of this action... results, we see these port indicators, we see port figures falling very fast - and not just in the port. As a result, people who worked on the “Latvian Railways” also lost their jobs, and also the Minister of Transport does not hide the fact that thousands of people are released from work (especially during the crisis). And people whose occupations are related to railroad activities and families from generation to generation have been linked to it, remain unemployed and without objective support for re-skilling... We see these falling volumes and the actual activities of investment projects, which have fallen very significantly, have almost stopped, and in fact there is no clarity as to how this port city, the municipality, will cooperate in the future... the interests of the local government and public interests, so there is also a specific proposal. But if we talk about the port of Riga (which concerns me most), it is positive that the municipality of Riga has not yet been expelled from management at the time of the adoption of the law, but no one can completely for the future and can be sure, because no official decision of the Riga City Council on the evaluation - a serious evaluation - has been made to participate with its assets in such a capital company, no opinion on this draft law - a legal opinion from the Riga City Council - or no decision has been made. Therefore, colleagues, it is credible to predict that Riga Municipality will be a minority shareholder, we cannot. Finally, will the Riga City Council want to invest its property, the Riga City Council, which makes an indicative... EUR 297 million to acquire these minority interests? Also, in view of this factor, which we mentioned in the previous proposals for this economic assessment, will this investment ultimately pay off? Will there be a situation where there is no need for further investment? If we cannot invest in wealth, we will have to invest in money. Then what will this money be, because there is no economic evaluation? Consequently, since there is still uncertainty as to whether and how the cooperation between the port city and the port capital company will take place, it is necessary to regulate this issue clearly in the law in order to create at least such a certain sense of security that the interests of the inhabitants of the port city as well as the interests of the state of that capital company and the interests of entrepreneurs working in the port are important for all and that cooperation is uniform. That is why there is also this specific proposal, which provides for these three parts. On the principles of cooperation - therefore, port authority and port city cooperation are based on mutual understanding and support, creating a common space that is favourable to both port and industrial development and citizens. On the other hand, representatives of the port administration and the city municipality of the port meet at least once a quarter to discuss the development of the port and the city, issues related to mutual cooperation... I'll talk to you. And the third is the meeting of representatives of the port administration and the city municipality of the port, and the minutes are published on the website of the city municipality of the port, so that the inhabitants of this municipality know clearly, entrepreneurs know what common problems are and what possible solutions can be made to negotiate. In order not to be as it is now, when adopting this law here, as in the Commission, as in the Saeima sitting, when considering the law that, for example, the Minister of Transport does not apply once and does not express the position of his Ministry not once for cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U486	I closed the debate. Please, Mr. Feldman, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U487	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to remind you that this proposal was not supported. I call for this to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U488	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 27. - Member Tatar's proposal! Please, let's vote! For -13, for -48, for -14. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U489	Go on 28. - the proposal put forward by the Group of the Greens/Family Union on how... the objective of limiting which port authorities can use their financial resources. So the Members acknowledged that the existing regulation was good enough... more precisely, which provides for the exclusion of the second and third subparagraphs of that Article. That is why this proposal was not supported by the Commission. I call for this to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U490	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U491	Yeah, thank you. This is an important proposal, which coincides with my previous proposals when we talked about the interests of citizens. The specific proposal, however, proposes to lay down the procedures for using the financial resources of the managing body of the port. In other words, according to the draft law, the port authority will have the right to use and profit from the use of public property of the state and municipality without restrictions and without the consent of the owner. It shall meet in the version in force and shall now be directed towards final approval. And in accordance with the laws and regulations in force, public property can be used in the public interest. Namely, according to the second paragraph of Section 77 of the Law “On Municipalities”, the property of the municipality shall be used to satisfy the needs of residents of the respective administrative territory. Accordingly, the transfer of income derived from the use of municipal property for other purposes shall not be permitted. In particular, in the case of a capital company, it is no longer covered by this particular article, which states that the benefit derived from the use of the Rigais property or from the use of the ventspiles’ property is reinvested in fact within the limits of the administrative territory. Thus, I firmly believe that it is necessary to maintain a restriction on the port authority to use its financial resources only for the management and development of the port and its infrastructure. This means that these funds remain in this administrative area, they are invested back in the development of the port, creating new jobs, creating... new taxpayers, ultimately also developing municipal revenue, because it is jobs, it is personal income tax, and thus the general economy of the country. This is quite an important point, my fellow Members, to whom I refer. If there is no such norm in the law and it will not yet be in this law, then the capital company, using the property of the residents, residents of the city, Riga residents or citizens of Ventspils, will be able to place the funds acquired as a result of management anywhere else, probably even abroad. In my opinion, this is completely unacceptable. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call for support for the 28th proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U492	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U493	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to emphasise that the proposal was not supported. I call for this to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U494	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 28. - the proposal put forward by the Group of the Greens/Family Union! Please, let's vote! For -11, for -48, for -13. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U495	Then it's 29. - the proposal by Member Tatar to supplement the law with a new Article 12.1 on the use of financial resources. And such an article has not been in the draft law so far... Also from the nineties. The Members of the Commission did not consider this to be justified and therefore rejected. Consequently, I also call on you to reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U496	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U497	Thank you for your word. Logically, there was no such article from the nineties, because in the past the ports had a completely different function to ensure the population... actually public law. In this case, the port will be obliged to do business. And if there's no article that... in such a case, this specific proposal, which provides for the right of the managing body of the port to use its financial resources also for purposes such as ensuring security in the port, reducing the level of noise in the port, reducing smell and reducing dust emissions, reducing environmental pollution from the port... After all, we are talking about the protection of the environment, about the overall health of the whole of society, about the measures necessary... the financial resources necessary to ensure that these functions are not incompatible. If this is provided for by law, then we can be more or less sure that there is also some responsibility for the port to make these investments and that it will not be punished for this if, by law, we set it up for such activities referred to in this Article 12.1 on the use of financial resources. And this is very important from the point of view of environmental protection, from the point of view of human health. In fact, if we want ports to work in a green, environmentally friendly way and thus also promote development and cooperation with the municipality, this is very important. This proposal can be voted regardless of the fact that ensuring security for ports is not supported, these noise reduction rules are not... the same as the smacks and other environmental protection tasks for the capital company... not supported. In this case, if we lay down such a provision in law, then the capital company also has the right to channel these funds for such specific purposes, as listed in proposal 29, which I would ask for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U498	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U499	Well, as I said, the Commission has also discussed this proposal - on and against. And the Members of the Commission decided not to support this proposal. That is why I call on you to reject it, too.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U500	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 29. - Member Edgar Tatar's proposal! Please, let's vote! For -14, for -48, for -13. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U501	Next 30. - the proposal tabled by Member Bondar. In the Commission, we have found that there may have been a legal error in that Mr Bondara probably wanted to abolish the 10 per cent deduction that is now due before dividends were paid for the benefit of the local authorities... where there is a certain logic. Unfortunately, the wording of the proposal means that it is the draft law that is excluded. 13 ... i.e. the second paragraph of Article 14. This would in fact lead to the continuation of the existing version. Then, when everyone in the commission hit it, suddenly... if before everyone said that we should definitely support Bondara's proposal... those who were, for example, from Ventspils City Council, but before that... when he had not yet understood it, he said that we should definitely not support... a proposal made by a coalition Member, however. So there was an interesting situation. Overall, this proposal was not supported for this reason. I call for this to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U502	Thank you. Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Martin Bondar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U503	Good evening, Madam President. Dear Mr. Feldman! Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, That's the second paragraph of Article 14. And it's not really right because, in essence, it creates a new tax, where only a few benefit. Imagine that the tree that grows everywhere in Latvia, those grains that grow everywhere in Latvia, are taxed in favour of those municipalities that have ports. That's cool. You're done cool! But what is the benefit of those municipalities that do not have ports, but where the trees grow and its cereals grow? I don't know. That's not right, so this tax for these few municipalities for having ports, it's... Well, yes, it's not a fair tax. Secondly, this tax is prepayment of credits, which are huge loans at the moment... the ports are taken out of public guarantees. Well, what? If these ports are not repaid now, they will first pay turnover tax to the State or municipality, then the State will get to pay these credits if the ports are not able, regardless of whether they have or not profits - they will anyway pay. And again the other municipalities, which may not be its richest ones, will get paid. And finally. Imagine the novads of Aizkraukles. There is a hydroelectric power station in the region of Aizkraukle. They don't get such a 10 percent charge from this hydro power plant. Don't get it, no! But it's in the county... Why are some assets subject to turnover tax in favour of the municipality and others not? That's why I, with full respect for the Commission... probably there's something wrong with their proposal, but the nature and the dispatch is quite clear... I would ask the responsible official and the Commission to pay attention to this and to put an end to this injustice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U504	Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U505	The President of the sitting. Dear colleagues, I would like to explain to Mr Bondara. Such thought-driven politicians have already made such a move once, stating that perhaps these municipalities do not need those resources, but at the end of the day those farmers from Aizkraukle and from all parts of Latvia are taking these grains and other products along the streets of this municipality. Its streets, its infrastructure - it is not able to withstand any possible stress. They lead these crops and other kinds of produce along the homes of the population, and at the end of the day the population has both its smells and the population has these noises... which from all over Latvia flow to these few places. Therefore, it is also necessary for the port to provide financial resources for the development of its territory in order to enable the municipality to carry out similar development projects on its own side, and this reconciliation is also taking place there. If you walk your way, then the port will develop on its side and the municipality will be able to develop those projects that it has priority. And then the question is, on what routes will these grains reach the port, and on what routes will its production reach that port? Can he take the helicopters? Rivers? Well... it doesn't really happen. Such experiments have been... and one revolutionary force introduced it, and then the reason came and returned it all back. Now too, I think that will soon come the reason; this bill will have to be changed and changed. But if you're smart and right, these municipalities... How did you say to Aizkraukle, Mr Bondara? Not so rich municipalities. You mentioned it very precisely. As Head of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, you should know. If under circumstances... if the owner of this municipality is correct, intelligent, these municipalities often pay financial equalisation to those municipalities that are more difficult to go and help afterwards. Not only do they deal with their questions, but they also help all other municipalities to deal with their questions. That is why this is an issue that obviously needs to be clarified in this House too. This proposal, in my opinion, is not acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U506	Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U507	Yeah, thank you. We're very good here, we can see two things. The first case with this legal wedding tabled by Mr Bondara, because after what he said, this proposal would not be supported. Although legally it looks like... it has meant that it offers a return to the version of the existing Ports Act, i.e.... But what we have heard from Mr Bondara is that he offers Riga's Rigans property, assets worth hundreds of millions, and the Ventspils people 42 percent of the city's territory benefits... the municipalities leave full zero. We heard from the commission manager, among other things, adding about these 10 percent - that the municipalities may already have some potential benefit from transferring all of their assets... business plan... without an analysis is transferred to this state capital company, but the head of the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission of the coalition says: “You are entitled to a round zero.” For example, for Development/About! Riga City Council, which currently, without an evaluation, without anything I understand, quietly agrees to return Riga's assets to the KUP managed - in fact, this will mean - the Ministry of Transport to the capital company without a business plan, without an assessment. I asked how many Rigaers each year. The budget of Riga Municipality in 2015 - almost 4 million, in 2016 - 3,5 million, in 2017 - also over 3 million, in 2018 - also almost 3.5 million, in 2019 - 3.2 million, in 2020 - under 3 million, in 2021 - over 2 million euros. It is a direct infrastructure charge and port charge, and there are also these motorways of the East, and it is also with Riga holidays and various other events where Riga residents receive some little benefit or financial resources they invest in... Because people... Finally, there are all these railway nodes, there are these noises, there are these dirty window sills with dust where all the transhipment takes place. After all, it is Riga’s treasure! It's a Rigaian... If, at the moment, Mr Bondara wants to make it very clear that it is... yet to take away this city's wealth, give it to the capital company with the goal of earning (we don't yet know how to earn it, it's just a slogan - earn it!) , but also to withdraw these funds... I think it's more than bad. That is, as a minimum, a bad idea: this idea and the point proposed by Mr Bondara. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U508	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mr. Feldman!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U509	I already said on behalf of the Commission. In fact, as I said, Mr Bondara's argument must be considered. This was the subject of a discussion within the Commission, but then the Legal Bureau also referred, yes, to this legally uncorrected wording of the proposal, and as a result there were no other options to reject this proposal. And, of course, I do not rule out that further discussions on this matter could take place in the future, but the proposal has now been rejected. And so I call you to reject it.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U510	Please call me! We will vote for 30. - Member Martin Bondar's proposal! Please, let's vote! For -1, for -61, for -4. The proposal is not supported. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that the Saeima Bureau has received an application from Members Alda Gobzem, Māra Možvillo, Ramona Petraviča, Karina Sprūde and Ieva Krapāne - in accordance with Rule 47 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure, we ask you to register Members' presence, to make sure that there is a quorum. So I make a record of the presence of Members. And I also asked the applicants whether... verify, at any time by each Member, the number and presence of members. So the quorum has been tested. We're going on, please see the bill. Proposal No 31 Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U511	31. - Mr Valaina's proposal. This proposal, in turn, provides for a return to the current version above all, but by further doubling these deductions to the municipality prior to the distribution of dividends. Such a proposal has now not been supported by the Commission. That is why I am also calling for the rejection here.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U512	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U513	Mrs Beitneres-Le Gallas, I had applied for a procedure to speak. You didn't give me the floor.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U514	Send, please, then after... by accepted norms you must send an application to the Saeima address that you want to talk about the procedure. So if there are no Members applying for this proposal in the debate... Please call me! The vote has been requested. We will vote in favour of 31. - Member Viktoras Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! For -11, for -50, for -16. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U515	Further 32. - the proposal tabled by Member Artusa Neminiņa. In fact, this rate of 10 per cent has been maintained, but it is clear that it is included in the special budget of the municipality. Well, actually... Yes, this proposal was also discussed by the Commission. And this proposal was not supported. Therefore, you too are invited not to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U516	So Members have not applied for a debate. The vote is requested. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 32. - Member Artusa Nemiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! For -2, for -48, for -16. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U517	Next 33. - the proposal tabled by Member Edgars Tatars. On tourism development in the port territory. The arguments for and against were heard and the members of the commission, those who took part, with a large majority, rejected this proposal. That is why you are also calling for this proposal to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U518	Members have not applied for a vote in the debate, but they have been asked to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 33. - Member Edgara Tatar's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 10, for - 51, for - 14. The proposal is not supported. Please enable a section on the procedure. Mr Aldis Gobzems has applied for a procedure. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U519	I'm really quick. One word, very fast. Mrs Beitneres-Le Gallas has allegedly checked the quorum, but in fact, it is important to stress - when examining the quorum, it is necessary to check whether all 100 Members of the Saeima... if those who participate as if they are present at the Saeima sitting have interoperable QR codes in force... So these certificates. I have the news that some of the members of the coalition of power no longer have existing interoperable certificates. They were introduced into the Saeima to be equal, just like businessmen or people who go in shops, and so on. Finally, Julia Stepanenko is excluded from sittings for the same reason. Very likely... we do not know what the procedure is before the sitting, how the validity of all interoperable certificates is checked. And that must be provided for by determining the quorum. Those time limits should be verified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U520	Thank you. So Mr Gobzem has asked this question once. I am responsible once again for the temporary requirements, additional requirements for the work of Members of the Saeima and local governments, and this question concerns the work and functions of the Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Application. Please contact the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications in writing. We're going on. We shall continue to see the draft law. And so we shall continue to look at the 34th proposal. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U521	34. - The motion put forward by Member Tatar. It is envisaged that the fourth paragraph of Article 19 should be adjusted. This proposal was debated, and all 'yes' and 'no', and the members of the Commission rejected this proposal convincingly. You too are invited to reject.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U522	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U523	I would ask both to report on the substance of the proposal on behalf of the Commission's Heads of Commission and not to mention that all "for" and all "no" were discussed. There were questions and arguments that we asked, and one answer was actually received against this argument: no, the Ministry of Transport does not support. Well then, Members, we are expressing our attitude by voting. And, by the way, at the Zoom chat, voting. There was no debate, no debate, no 'for', no 'no' and no legal argument to this effect, as well as other proposals. But the 34th proposal. Once again, colleagues: we are talking about the law “On Municipalities”, in this case reference to Article 78, which states that local authorities have pre-emptive rights when real estate is disposed of in the administrative territory of local governments (Sound breakdown.) ... may perform statutory municipal functions. In other words, we are talking about the statutory functions of the municipality in cases where it can be disposed of, not under any other circumstances... real estate in any case... if currently held by both state, local government and port authorities and individual individuals, by economic operators. Therefore, it is particularly wrong to claim that the joint management of the capital company must be ensured in the port area. Colleagues, this is impossible, neither by adopting this law... Neither today, tomorrow, nor after six months, year. It is simply not legally possible, given the fragmented structure of the owners to whom it may theoretically belong. We see this structure, which belongs to the territory of the Freeport of Riga, in the territory of the Freeport of Ventspils. There's both a state and a municipality... Both the port itself, the municipality and legal entities that are, in fact, private... the holders of the capital shares as well. So that the most fragmented structure of this owner. In any case, we should remember that the right of pre-emption for the purchase of real estate by a capital company is an additional form of State aid because it guarantees an exclusive right for one private rightholder in a territory of strategic importance to the State. And for this kind of state support (I think colleagues, if we had this debate, then we would have debated and come to the point that everything is clearly visible in consultation with lawyers and law managers as well)... I am very clear that there is no justification for such State aid and no harmonisation from the European Commission. That is what I have referred to on several occasions between readings. We had time to write a letter to the European Commission to address these concerns. There was absolutely no interest in this alignment with the European Commission. Accordingly, the tender provides for the right of pre-emption to the capital company... there is, in fact, no legal provision of this kind, so it is also - to make Article 17 of the draft law in a new version. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U524	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U525	This proposal was not supported by the Commission. I call for this to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U526	Please call me! To be put to the vote on 34. - Member Edgar Tatar's proposal! Please, let's vote! For -11, for -51, for -14. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U527	35. - Member Tatar's proposal. These issues of the earth too. The Commission was not supported. I call for this to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U528	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U529	Colleagues, I think our Ventspils colleague... also by receiving a letter from Ventspils City Council and by contacting the Head of Ventspils Municipality... I am aware of the participation and meeting of the Minister for Transport in Ventspils. In view of the fact that the Minister of Transport has now joined this meeting and is following the progress of the examination of this draft law, I also call on the Minister of Transport to join this debate and, speaking about the proposal of 35, to state fairly whether the Minister of Transport was on a regional visit on 1 December 2021 and was agreed with representatives of Ventspils City Council on the fact that the Law on Ports will ensure the right of the municipality to carry out its projects on its land in the port area. Was there such a meeting? Is that not some false information? Also - was it talked about and agreed that the municipality would have the right to sell the land belonging to itself in the territory of the port if there are other persons, alleged economic operators, belonging to industrial or fisheries-related buildings on this land, if they would like to purchase the land in order to ensure development and guarantee their activities... Business security and certain guarantees? This is what entrepreneurs, those who want to buy land under their buildings, too. Was such an agreement reached? That's why... Colleagues, what I have heard is that the Ministry of Transport was also committed to making proposals, but such proposals have not been submitted to the third reading. I would therefore like to stress that the principle of land and building unit has also been looked at several times in the Legal Commission, where, among other things, the representative of the Ministry of Justice has repeatedly fought and for a long time stressed this common principle, these principles which we have seen in various other laws (I would remind you that the Ministry of Justice is led by a representative of the same party as the Ministry of Transport.) ... this whole property and other things, colleagues. In fact, the municipality has no other possibilities and resources to develop the industry, so this expected benefit significantly exceeds this rental fee... This benefit... and the municipality is much better to say - yes, we have this plot of land... If the businessman or businessman is ready to develop production in this municipality territory, it is much more advantageous to come in return and, in accordance with the procedure laid down by law, to allow the sale of the land under his own industrial buildings... and similar if it is in the common interest of the residents of the municipality. So, please, colleagues... I see the Minister of Transport taking part in the meeting - please also apply at least in this, third reading, when we will certainly have completed all the proposals, and respond honestly to these meetings: whether there have been such meetings, and whether such commitments, logical commitments, which are obvious when entering this industrial area, have been or have not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U530	We are continuing the debate. The name of the Minister of Transport to Far Linkaith. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U531	The President of the sitting is very respectful. Honourable Members! Thank you to Mr Tatar for speaking... For the purposes of this I can assure you that I have visited Ventspils Municipality and invited Ventspils Municipality to actively participate in the process of formation of the new capital company, both by participating in working groups and by expressing my views on how to improve the existing draft law until the third reading. And I can assure you that we had an agreement with Ventspils City Municipality on the submission of the relevant amendment. This amendment was tabled. This is the 8th proposal, which has just been voted on as clarified proposal 10. These agreements have therefore been reached. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U532	I thank the Minister for his participation in the debate. I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U533	On behalf of the Commission, I can say that the proposal was rejected. Thank the Minister. I call for this proposal to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U534	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 35. - Member Edgar Tatar's proposal! Please, let's vote! For -11, for -49, for -17. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U535	36. - The motion put forward by Member Tatar. On employment in the port. There has never been such an article proposed in this bill. That is why the members of the Commission rejected this proposal convincingly. I also call on you to reject it.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U536	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U537	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister, who came forward for the first time in the debate. In my opinion, this is a small but positive incident in the course of the adoption of this draft law. I would call it that way. I would like to point out that you called on Ventspils... that representatives of Ventspils municipality are invited to participate in the drafting of this law. What I had observed was that representatives of the Freeport of Ventspils, perhaps even contrary to the representatives of the Freeport of Riga and the municipality of Riga, took a very active part and came with their proposals, logical proposals, arguments and questions, but these arguments and questions in essence... after ( Not clear to be heard.) There was no discussion, so there was also this specific proposal. That is to make us completely correct. This can also be demonstrated by all the audio recordings and protocols available to us at the commission's sittings. But on the 36th proposal. Taking into account that currently, especially in these geopolitical circumstances, plus in the circumstances when Riga Municipality and Ventspils Municipality... There is a very high likelihood that there is no longer a direct interest in genuinely large, sufficiently serious development in ports... and we also express serious and justified concerns about the operation of this capital company... we need to define very clearly in the law the rule of employment in the port. In other words, a shortage of labour for the operation and development of a port is not just a problem for companies operating in a port. This problem can at once become a problem for the entire economy of the country, so there is this specific article, which is based on the best experience in the world, as has been the case, for example, in the port of Rotterdam, where both education opportunities in the field and in the digital environment are available in different ways within the framework of training... and port visits... economic operators (not clear to be heard) ... both the places of practice... and this activity, how to promote employment in the port so that we have our specialists at a time when the port will hopefully return to normal... The recommended I think that both environmentally friendly cargoes and port operations will still be normal, not as they are at the moment... for the last few years, particularly at a time when the country has actually taken over most of the ports. So when we think about the future, it's very important for us to make similar things... not only as Rotterdam, but also as a special port college in Amsterdam, where people are trained in real working conditions. If we want to develop ports and we want them... our global competitiveness to build, there will be a shortage of labour. This must certainly be taken into account in the future. It is not a clear problem at the moment; it is quite the opposite: we have been forced (the state) to release a very large number of people employed, both in ports and on the railways. And I expect this problem to be very topical in the future, so it's time to anticipate... A new Article 19.2 on employment in a port, which consists of three parts: "( 1) The Port Authority provides for the development and implementation of a long-term strategy to attract the workforce needed to provide the port's labour force. ( 2) The Port Authority shall cooperate with educational institutions and undertakings working in the port in the performance of the task provided for in the first subparagraph. ( 3) The Port Authority shall organise and conduct regular training and information seminars for both students of educational establishments and existing and potential employees of the port in order to ensure that their qualifications meet the needs of port operators in order to carry out the tasks provided for in paragraph 1 of this Article." Both from today's port operation and market conditions, and from anticipating possible cargo and port operations in the future, in particular - looking at automated terminals... Therefore, colleagues, we have to foresee this employment, so that the capacity of our ports does not stand as a glass ceiling at one point, but that we have experts and people... and professionals who could work effectively in these ports, both develop ports and, therefore, give a certain contribution to our country and municipality... and members would not have to invest further or cover any losses from other resources. I therefore call for support for proposal 36. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U538	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, please comment.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U539	36. The proposal was discussed by the Commission. The Members were strongly rejected. That is why you are also calling for this proposal to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U540	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 36. - Member Edgar Tatar's proposal! Please, let's vote! For -14, for -50, for -14, for -50, for -14. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U541	37. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport, Telelys Linkait. It is fully supported, including 38. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U542	Members want a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 37. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport, Fare Linkait! Please, let's vote! For - 34, for - 7, for - 18. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U543	38. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The substance is identical to the previous one, but in this situation, I do not think it is possible to vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U544	The proposal is put to the vote. Please, let's vote! Please call me! We will vote in favour of 38. - the proposal submitted by the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! For - 61, for - 2 and for - 4. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U545	39. - Member Tatar's proposal. Powered off point 15 of the transitional provisions. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U546	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U547	Thank you. Proposal 39. The proposal maintains the status of public person derived from port authorities. This proposal is consistent with previous proposals, which I have talked about many times, on these arguments, on these benefits and losses, including what I am talking about in previous proposals, which were reflected by the Minister of Transport. Even if we return to what the Transport Minister said in the context of this law, the 8th proposal submitted by the Transport Minister was partly supported and included in the 10th proposal, but as a result, it is no longer that... and the accepted norm... Both Proposals 8 and 10... what was agreed, namely, this agreement, Minister, has not been complied with. But when we go back to proposal 39, the port management reform is not yet in its entirety. It has not been assessed from a legal or economic point of view, from a business point of view, from a risk management point of view or from a management point of view... Neither - how will the municipality cooperate with the city and with the Cabinet of Ministers, with the state in this case, nor - as it deserves or deserves - what risks can be incurred, whether the municipalities will still have to invest their taxpayers' funds in this capital company under any circumstances or not, because whether it deserves or does not deserve to, cannot be said on the basis of any document. There is no economic justification. There are only arguments that it will be better that we change this status - actually from a public person to a business management model. There is no argument. Therefore, colleagues, I also called for this provision to be deleted... to exclude paragraph 15 of the Transitional Provisions of the Law on Ports and to expect the moment when we will have the evaluation of the European Commission and all documents and evaluations listed above, including the decisions of the city of Riga - the state city, the capital - and the municipal councils of Ventspils that they agree. And then we can move on. Colleagues, I once again point out that we have the last, one last, time to correct this error - to support proposal 39 and to exclude paragraph 15 of the transitional provisions of the Ports Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U548	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U549	On behalf of the Commission, I can say that this proposal was discussed long and wide-rangingly, and the Members of the Commission firmly rejected it. That is why I call on you to reject it.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U550	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 39. - Member Edgar Tatar's proposal! Please, let's vote! For -13, for -50, for -14. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U551	40. - a proposal from the committee responsible. I've been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U552	Members have asked for a vote. Please call me! Let's vote for 40. - the committee's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 51, for - 1, for - 2. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U553	41. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Technical specification. Supported by the Commission. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U554	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U555	42. - the proposal by Member Tatar, which provides for the wording of point 15 of the transitional provisions to be reworded. Long and wide-ranging discussions were held and the members of the Commission decided to reject it. I call on you to reject it.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U556	The Members in the debate have not applied. Please call me! Mr. Tawar, late... We will vote in favour of 42. - Member Edgar Tatar's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 10, for - 50, for - 12. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U557	43. - the proposal by Member Tatar to exclude the previously supported version of the transitional provisions by... points 16 to 24. The proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U558	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U559	Thank you. This proposal, 43 - to exclude Article 22 of the draft law, which provides for the addition of transitional provisions to paragraphs 16 to 24 - is, in fact, related to all of the arguments I have previously raised to maintain the status of port authorities as a derived legal entity. Unlike a capital company. Colleagues, once again, I stress and remind you that derived public persons have an obligation to act in the public interest as a whole, an obligation to ensure transparency in their activities. It is the duty to take care of the useful use of funding and other resources of society, and therefore of the benefit of society... Primary. It is an obligation to provide regular, qualitative and public reports on its work. It is an obligation to follow the principles of public law. This is a complete contrast to the functioning of the capital company. The capital company operates according to business principles, which lays down a business secret, and in this case the city dwellers who will have invested their... the huge city’s total assets, and there will no longer be much information. So the proposed port reform will make port activities less transparent and information about ports less accessible to the public. The resources available to port authorities will actually be used to achieve these commercial objectives, also operating to some extent according to the principles of the Commercial Law. And in fact, ports, if we adopt this law, start operating in accordance with the principles of private and not public law at the time of its adoption. And, as lawyers tell me, there are huge differences in this case, if we look... the interests of urban people, public interests. And I think that these changes are not in the common interest of all of us, of society, no matter how we try to point this out. Both these potential benefits and - which could be received by the State in general, because there is no cover for such benefits, no argument, no calculation, no document to prove that this will be the case. The proposal therefore intends to maintain the management of existing ports, this management model, transparency and functioning in accordance with the principles of public law, at least until we are clear that changing these principles will bring more benefits to society than harm. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call for support for proposal 43. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U560	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U561	For the sake of good order, I would just like to remind you... as in the past, on previous proposals... in the contents was a speech... and also reference to the scope of Article 88 of the Law on Public Administration Equipment, and therefore my duty will probably be to recall that Article 88 of the Law on Public Administration Equipment applies to the establishment of a public limited liability company in the case where the Cabinet of Ministers or the municipal council has the freedom of choice to establish a public limited liability company. And if the obligation to set up a capital company is stipulated in the law - and this is the case for the administration of the port of Riga and the port of Ventspils, as established by this law - then the justification for setting up the capital company should be provided in the course of consideration of the relevant draft law. And the adequacy or insufficiency of this justification shall be decided by the Members of the Saeima by a specific decision. Consequently, directly from the vote of the Members, including the previous proposals... Members express their views on whether there is justification or not. And in the present case, Members have provided that justification by essentially assessing all of them previously in favour and against, so that it can be established that that justification is there. So that's what I... I just wanted to draw attention, because it is said that as if the creation of capital companies is perhaps not really justified at all - that is something maybe undesirable, the form is not... That was why I had to give this clarification on my own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U562	Name to Member Edgar Tavar for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U563	If Mr Feldman, who is also the head of the committee responsible at the same time, says that this is the reason for this, please tell me to the end that this is a political market, a political market justification, not an objective economic justification or a legal need to change the status of this port. Because no one would object (neither the opposition nor those who have so far considered the draft law with an objective scepter) if there were legal arguments, economic arguments why such a law, such changes to the law are necessary; why must the city dwellers, the Rigans, the publics, their city assets, and thus their total resources, be transferred to such a capital company. On what basis? If it happens... there will be a loss if ports continue to work with a loss if... a decision will be made to increase the share capital, then... What is it? Rīdznieki will invest in Riga money, will not clean roads at all (already dirty in Riga)? Do we close schools if there is no money to pay for teachers? Or just say - no, everything, thank you, we are free. What we have invested in is that you keep it and you can privatise or do what you want. What are those arguments? This is the will of Members - it is an argument? Colleagues, let's not hide... We're not gonna be naive! I think you know a lot... and, by the way, I have heard quite a lot about what the true arguments are. I think the true arguments are very likely... I hope that at some point the relevant authorities will also examine and investigate whether there is any political market or possible political action... with or without long-term consequences. I'm not a judge - I can't judge you, I'm not a prosecutor - I don't want to blame you. I hope that, rather, this situation is such a ignorance that the norm of this draft law and this... At times, we simply do not understand what we are voting on. In the Commission, I was convinced that most Members do not understand what the vote is on. Simply if the head of the commission says 'we support', then we must vote 'in favour'. If he says 'we do not support', then we vote 'no'. But is most Members of the Saeima objectively... And now too... Do you understand what we're doing? Colleagues, this is a huge risk, and we point out these risks. And I regard it as my duty to make these proposals and also to bring all these risks to your attention, colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U564	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U565	For the sake of good order, I would simply like to remind you that the justification is clearly stated in the annotation of this draft law, while whether it is sufficient or not, it is precisely for the Members of the Saeima to decide on this in a specific decision. We have already talked about the existence of justification when looking at one of the previous proposals. This proposal was therefore not supported by the Commission. I call for this to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U566	Thank you for your comment. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 43. - Member Edgar Tatar's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 12, for - 51, for - 15. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U567	44. - Mr Valaina's proposal. Provision shall be made for the expression of point 16 of the transitional provisions in a different version. This is about shareholder agreements. This proposal was discussed. Members strongly rejected this in the Commission. I call for this to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U568	Members have requested a vote. Please call me! To be put to the vote on 44. - Member Viktor Valain's proposal! Please, let's vote! For -13, for -49, for -14. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U569	45. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport, Telelys Linkait. Partly supported, included 58. - the Commission's proposal. I call on you to vote against or to abstain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U570	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U571	Yes, colleagues! This is indeed included in the next proposal, 58. However, I would like to point out the substance of this proposal. The essence of this proposal is what... we also see the basic information available on the Riga Freeport Authority's website - that the Freeport of Riga Authority has 446 million assets related to the operation of the port. A large part of these assets are the property of the inhabitants of Riga city - the property that the municipality of Riga, Riga City Council, granted to ensure the operation of the port as it started... or by transferring its real estate to the managing body of the port, the property of Riga City Council. And actually... If this proposal had been supported, then I could say with confidence that the Riga City Council, the inhabitants of Riga, is active in the port... actually gets into... go completely away from the control of the residents of Riga. And such a decision would be theoretically possible only if such a decision had been voted by the municipality of Riga City Council, the majority of municipal members. There is still no such decision. We will also talk about this in proposal 58. Colleagues, I once again point to the risks associated with this decision and this draft law, especially when looking... from the interests of Rigans to the interests of the citizens of Ventspils. And I am a little concerned - to some extent - that this issue has not been addressed in Riga Municipality, Riga City Council. With its consent, actually transfer this belonging to the capital company, which is working on the basis of other principles... In my view, such action is, to a certain extent, also comparable to the waste of municipal property, because public funds and property must be used legally and in accordance with the interests of citizens... Primary, first and foremost. Therefore, colleagues, I would also definitely call for a 'no' vote on this. And we will also discuss proposal 58.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U572	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U573	I call for this proposal to be rejected by voting 'no' or 'no'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U574	Please call me! We'll vote for 45. - the traffic mitre's Remote Linkait's proposal! Please, let's vote! For -4, for -47, for -19. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U575	46. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union, which provides for a different wording of point 16 (2) of the transitional provisions. In the Commission, the proposal was not supported. I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U576	Please call me! We will vote for 46. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please, let's vote! For -13, for -49, for -15. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U577	47. - the proposal of the Group of the Greens/Family Union, which provides for a different wording of the third paragraph of point 16 of the transitional provisions. The proposal was not supported by the Commission. I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U578	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 47. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please, let's vote! For -13, for -50, for -13. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U579	48. - The proposal from Member Artus Neighmina. It provides for a different wording of point 16(3) of the transitional provisions contained in Article 19 of the draft law. Well, this proposal... There was a debate on this. It was partly supported and included in 58. - the Commission's proposal. If a vote is requested, then I would like to say no.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U580	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 48. - Member Artus Neighmina's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 3, for - 46, for - 13. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U581	49. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. It was partly supported and included in 58. - the Commission's proposal. If a vote is requested, it must be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U582	Members have not asked for a vote. Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U583	50. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport, Telelys Linkait. Partly supported, included 58. - the Commission's proposal. If a vote is requested, it must be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U584	Members have not requested a vote. Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U585	51. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau to exclude point 20 of the transitional provisions. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U586	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U587	52. - the proposal of the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union, which provides for the expression of point 21 of the transitional provisions in a different wording. In the Commission, the proposal was not supported. I call for this to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U588	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U589	Colleagues! On proposal 52 - on the transitional provisions in paragraph 21... in fact in a new version, I would like to emphasise once again that both the Freeport Authority of Riga and Ventspils were originally established and operated as municipal institutions. And the resources which they used to ensure their activities were fully owned by the municipality of Riga and Ventspils, and therefore - also by Rigans and Ventspils residents. Riga Municipal Authority... If you look at the history, the Riga City Municipality Authority was established in 1998, but the Ventspils City Municipality Authority... In 2010... was converted to... derived public persons. All the assets of the former municipal authorities, i.e. the urban property, were transferred in full to ensure the operation of the two public entities. Thus, both the Freeport of Riga and Ventspils Authority started its activities using both state and municipal property, and therefore the property of residents. According to indicative estimates, at least an additional EUR 23 million was invested from Riga City Municipality in the Freeport of Riga at that time. And it is also actually read in the only commission... in the official document issued by the Riga City Council... 28 August 2021... An annex to the letter signed by the President of Riga City Council, contained in the draft law... to second reading. Here we can get to know this historical aspect and the contribution of the urban people quite in detail. If we are talking about the draft law now, it has to be stressed that the draft law offers the property of all existing port authorities to be considered as state property, public funds – as capital company funds. And, in my view, it is not only unfounded, but also illegal. And, colleagues, I once again point to the risks that we, as a country, will face after the adoption of this draft law. Legally free port authorities should be divided between the State and the municipality, thus ensuring that both parties contribute to the capital company. So, colleagues, there is this proposal, 52, where I am referring specifically to this - as this actually happens, too... but a disposal of Ventas... if we're watching, Ventspils... And the ports... ‘the successor management rights and obligations according to the distribution of the Ventspils Freeport Authority property carried out in accordance with the second subparagraph’. And to mitigate these risks, there is also this, 52, proposal, colleagues. I call for support for this.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U590	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U591	On behalf of the Commission, I have to say that this proposal was discussed and the absolute majority of the members of the commission voted against it. I therefore call on you to vote against.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U592	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 52. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please, let's vote! For - 12, for - 51, for - 15. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U593	53. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport, Telelys Linkait. Partly supported, included 58. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U594	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U595	54. - the proposal tabled by Member Viktoras Valaiņa. Delete point 22 of the transitional provisions. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U596	Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 54. - Member Viktor Valain's proposal! Please, let's vote! For -9, for -48, for -15. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U597	55. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Family Union. The Commission was not supported. I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U598	The proposal shall not be put to the vote, but may be put to the debate. Name in the debate for Member Edgars Tavars. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U599	Colleagues, I cannot read a little more about the figures and, ultimately, why this proposal has come about. Once again, let us understand that we all understand what this is about. If we are talking about participation in a public person's capital company that is not possible, if there is no economic assessment of the capital company's activities and not available, the so-called business plan, to which we have repeatedly called... We had a lot of time. Here, too, I repeat that this is not the case. We need to understand what we're going to do. We put this giant on a clay foot... although Article 88 of the Law on State Administration Structures and Article 5 of the Law on the Management of Shares and Companies of a Public Person require this. On the size of the municipality speaking. Even now, when the draft law is already being reviewed at the Saeima's third reading, the municipality has no objective... information is not available to Riga Municipality... because the meeting of such an information commission was not from the Ministry of Transport, or from any other ministry, institution subordinate to the Cabinet of Ministers or from the Prime Minister. And if we are talking about these figures, then we should know that the estimated value of Ventspils Freeport Authority property (indicative value) is 170 million euros. If such an investment amounts to 60 per cent on the part of the State, the municipality should invest an additional approximately EUR 113 million in order to obtain 40 per cent. As a result, the total support from public funds to the managing capital company of Ventspils ports will reach almost 300 million euros. That's the point one. Two points. If we are talking about Riga, then the Freeport of Riga Authority has assets related to the operation of the port. In fact, the total assets available to the administration amount to EUR 446 million in an indicative way. If such an investment amounts to 60 per cent on the part of the State, the municipality must invest an additional EUR 297 million in order to obtain 40 per cent. Colleagues, we had a very loud debate earlier today on another draft law, when the amount is split up for ten years. Here we understand what figures are at all and what are you voting on, dear colleagues? We need to understand that, with regard to Riga, the total support from public funds to the capital company managing the ports of Riga will result in an indicative – indicative! - €745 million. 745 million euro in the case of Riga! And I think colleagues, if we're with a light hand... rather than us, but the coalition Members vote with a light hand today in favour of such means without proper assessment... Well, I'm sorry to say it's irresponsible. As a minimum, irresponsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U600	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U601	I would remind you that this proposal was not supported by the Commission. I therefore call for this to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U602	Nor is the proposal put to the vote as proposal 46 has been rejected. We are going on with proposal 56. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U603	56. - the proposal tabled by Member Mārtiņš Bondara. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U604	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U605	Over 57. - a proposal from the Member's neighbour. This was also not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U606	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U607	I do not understand why this Member's proposal was not supported by the Commission. We read this proposal, which was submitted by the Member Neimanis: “Complement the transitional provisions with paragraph 25 in the following wording: Before the winding-up proceedings of the Freeport Authority of Riga and the Freeport Authority of Ventspils,” it is clear that this public entity will have to be dissolved in order to form this capital company – “The Cabinet of Ministers issues regulations laying down the procedure,” – the Cabinet of Ministers! - ‘in which these free port authorities are being dissolved and new port authorities (capital companies) are being established.’ “ In my opinion, this is a rather logical proposal that actually had to be initiated when the draft law was being examined, right from the beginning. This does not impose any financial obligation. Here we are not talking about environmental aspects. Just the Cabinet of Ministers clearly says the rules, the procedure for eliminating these free port authorities and establishing new administrations, including everything that is not stated in this law... all commitments that go on, that do not go away, because everything is absolutely clear to everyone. We're all in this law... we could not predict it for this time. This would to a certain extent reduce the problems. That is why, my fellow Members, I am calling for support for this proposal from the Member of the Neighbourhood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U608	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, or what will you comment on?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U609	Well, here's a very simple comment. So the Cabinet of Ministers will decide on the liquidation and this is more settled in the norms that we will consider 58. - the Commission's proposal. That is exactly what is meant by 57. - Neighbourhood proposal, it is not necessary in this case, i.e. issue of some other special regulations. The Commission had a discussion on this, the majority of Members agreed with the interpretation of the lawyers and the explanation of the Ministry of Transport, so they did not support this proposal, but supported the 58th proposal. I call for this to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U610	Thank you for your comment. Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 57. - Member Artus Neighmina's proposal! Please, let's vote! On - 7, against - 48, refraining from - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U611	Go on, 58. - a very long and complicated proposal from the committee responsible. It complements the transitional provisions with points 16-23, as well as includes how to ensure continuity of activities of the port of Riga and the port of Ventspils. For example, decisions are taken on liquidation and so on. This is a really long proposal. The Commission voted initially on its specific parts and then on its whole, and there was strong support from the Commission for this proposal, as you say, in all possible ways. I therefore also call on you to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U612	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U613	Here we go. 59. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Ilze Indicicenes, concerning the management of small ports. This proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U614	Members... Members support... All right. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U615	Thank you. Unfortunately, we see that the system is braked - I am not always able to apply for a debate right away, even if I pressure it in good time. But, colleagues, I would have a question for the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics, a rhetorical question. Why do port debts, if we are talking about debt cancellation, be extinguished only for small ports? Why not the big ports if we delete... if the country has as much money as ever? If we can write it down safely? I'm not saying we shouldn't do that. I also know the situation of small ports. But why don't we think about the port of Riga? If there's such a debt cancellation... Here, logically, I would ask for a much broader explanation, and I think colleagues in this House hear why there is such a proposal. That is, if we talk about the port of Riga, about the obligations of our port of Riga, then it would be logical that such a norm will eventually also appear in relation to the big ports, if we have so much in the money country as ever and we can do it with a safe hand. I agree with the poverty of small ports, especially of all the service charges, delays and interest cancellations that have been accumulated for small ports... accepted by the Cabinet of Ministers and similar. What I'm calling for, colleagues... Think, we will have to open this law anyway, because there will be a lot of mistakes here that we will have to correct. I would simply like to point out: if we are talking consistently about small ports, then we will also have to talk at one moment about perhaps large ports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U616	I closed the debate. Is there a comment on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U617	In the Commission, this proposal received strong support. The Ministry of Economics has obviously done well, so I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U618	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 59. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics Ilze Indricksone! Please, let's vote! For - 71, for - no, for - 2. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U619	60. - the proposal by the committee responsible for 25. - the establishment of a new point in the transitional provisions. This proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U620	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U621	And 61. - the last - a proposal from the committee responsible, which provides that the law shall enter into force on the day following its publication. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U622	Name in the debate on the Minister of Transport and Communications, Far Linkait. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U623	The President of the sitting is very respectful. Dear Members, To this proposal, I would like to thank all the Members of the Saeima for their work on this draft law, which is a long, difficult one, and if we look back back on history, attempts to improve port management were already in 2002, and also in 2012, some government parties came up with such a proposal, but then it did not get any support. At the moment, too, we see that the process is not easy and simple. In fact, I think for the first time in the history of Latvia's independence, we are transforming a derived public person into a capital company, and in this transformation process there are still many nuances that may be... and I also agree with Mr Tatar's statement in the debate that some nuances are possible, which we have not taken into account and which will still need to be clarified. But also in pure terms, this principle of converting ports from a public authority into capital companies is a trend for the last 20 years across Europe. Thank you also to Mr Tatar for regularly referring today to the port of Rotterdam as a positive example. The port of Rotterdam is one of the many situations in which this process has come out of an institution established by the municipality, turning into a joint stock company between the state and the municipality. As well as our neighboring ports, the port of Tallinn and the port of Klaipeda, they are working as capital companies, as well as the port of Gdańsk in this process, in my opinion, is making good progress. I hope that together with the municipalities of Riga and Ventspils we will succeed in achieving good success in the port of Riga and Ventspils with the new management model. Once again, thanks to the Members of the Saeima, special thanks to the Parliamentary Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy - the Commission's leadership and Members - for the very thorough assessment of the various opinions, including the assessment of legal arguments, and thanks to the Saeima's Legal Office for its support in the preparation of this quite simple draft law. Thank you all, and I hope that with this then port management reform in Latvia can begin.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U624	Thank you to the Minister for Transport. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U625	Good evening, all Latvians! Amendments to the Ports Act. In principle, it is clear that this is a step towards stealing also Latvian ports. You people haven't noticed that everything that the Minister of Transport Linkait finds is going to the bottom of the bubble? The transit is through the bubble. The roads look like after the Second World War. Ports, this fantastic model, where you get caught by BIP, and so on... Ports - empty compared to Klaipeda or something else. The airport in Vilnius and Estonia is developing, we are empty. We give airBaltic with hundreds of millions and more. Everything goes to the bottom, and this is next. All over Linkait. And I think everything that Linkait finds - it's all going to the bottom, I wanted to say that, but I think it's not non-professional - it's a conscious professionalism to drop it to the bottom. You know, it's harmful...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U626	Mr Gobzem, however, I call on you to respect paragraph 11 of the Saeima's Code of Conduct: "The Member is not using his position to influence the decisions of state and local authorities illegally."
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U627	As illegal as I... Explain how I had an unlawful effect?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U628	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U629	Honorary Head of the sitting! Sir, Dear Members, honourable Members, I'm still in the process of examining this draft law... much we have heard about such a matter as whether the European Union has or does not object to the adoption of such a reform. In this respect, I must say that the Commission has also discussed the question of the compatibility of a draft law with European Union law in the field of State aid, and this has already been assessed before this draft law was submitted to the Saeima. This is the result of what the draft law states (please quote): “The European Commission has been consulted during the drafting of the draft law. On the basis of the information provided by the Ministry of Transport, including the replies to its questions prepared and sent to the European Commission, the European Commission considers that the amendments to the Ports Act and the transformation of the Latvian port management model into capital companies do not raise concerns from the point of view of State aid, as well as the letter from the European Commission available to the members of the Commission, which acknowledges that the regulatory framework provided for in the draft law does not pose any problems in relation to European Union law in the field of State aid. This is one of the things that have spoken a lot about all the proposals, so I thought that I should make this point clear to this proposal, which, to some extent, was now also widely discussed and has also been called upon at the committee meeting quite often. I thank the members of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy for their endurance in preparing this draft law for both second and third reading. It was also necessary to hold additional sittings during non-standard times to enable it to be examined. There was a real need for endurance. Thank you to the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, which was actively involved in improving the quality of the draft law. Also, representatives of the Ministry of Transport who strongly argued in the sittings of the commission of the draft law. Thank you also to Members for their endurance today, and I call on you to support the proposal at a later stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U630	Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U631	Colleagues! I will speak in general on the whole draft law. Last proposal: I may be talking less about risks. I set out these risks in virtually all of the proposals. I'm not going to repeat it anymore. I am forced to reflect a little once again on what Minister Linkaita said about the transition of European ports to capital companies. To some extent, yes, the trend is present, but there is one very, very important “but”. There are completely different and unique situations at every location, including the ports you mentioned - both in the port of Klaipeda and in the port of Rotterdam. The port of Klaipeda is not developed on the... these port assets have not been transferred... the assets of the population are not transferred to the State. There has been state participation from the beginning. There is a completely different proportion if we are talking about what the state is responsible for. It is a strategic object of the country, a state investment. There is no situation where people's belongings were taken and transferred to the state. No, it wasn't the port of Rotterdam that you mentioned. We know that, in this company, the basic dominance, absolute dominance, is for the municipality, and the country came with a huge investment so that the port could develop. And came into one part, which is not control. Base country... but the city works together with the state, and the main control is for the city dwellers. It's an urban asset. The city dwellers receive the fruits of their work there, as well as certain inconveniences due to the activities of the port and the resulting consequences. Therefore, the involvement of the municipality in this port also means that the port takes care not only of its development but also of a quality living environment, clean living environment for the city dwellers, residents of the region. That is why it is very, very important, colleagues. In all the reforms that have taken place in Europe, citizens' interests go beyond everything. I've analyzed the last of both Tallinn and... How I got to this stock exchange... many things where these risks were assessed were developed business plans, very carefully and reasonedly each number is justified, and everything is clear to all. There's no objection. In this case, too, I would not have objected, it would have come with a flag - yes, right, perhaps we are doing so. If there were these assessments and these arguments, why vote in favour of this draft law. Unfortunately, my fellow Members, I see a huge word of honor here! - the enormous risks we will face. I cannot support this draft law at final reading. I will certainly vote 'no' because I know that this law will have to be closed and there will have to be many mistakes to correct, and perhaps with a very high probability, both for the State and for the Rigas, as well as for the Saintspiles, of being separated from the amount of taxpayers in proceedings, in order to possibly make financial corrections to the errors which, unfortunately, have arisen as a result of non-evaluation or negligence as a result of this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U632	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U633	Before Le Galla re-opens my microphone illegally, however, I would like to stress that everyone...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U634	The indication of the driver shall not be permitted.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U635	... Every citizen of Latvia, when leaving Latvia - and people of Latvia, unlike Le Galla, do not go for political tourism - sees an empty airport. Every citizen of Latvia sees empty ports. Especially those who go to Klaipeda to see. It's not far, by the way, from Latvia. Everyone sees how airports in Vilnius and Tallinn develop – unlike Latvia. Everyone sees it. It's not the ones who run the muzzle...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U636	We are currently debating Latvia's ports.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U637	... which are empty, Mrs. Le Gallas. Which is empty compared to Klaipeda. I also recommend you to go to Klaipeda with the whole whirlwind and look.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U638	Mr Gobzem, I call on you to read paragraph 7 of the Code of Conduct for Members of the Saeima: "The Member shall avoid in public statements words, gestures and other acts which may be offensive and shall not use abusive or incompatible expressions; the Member shall be based on facts, their fair interpretation and reasoning." We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U639	Very respectful Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, It is a late evening, and this bill is approaching its understandable outcome. Of course, no one already has and will not be surprised at how it will end with previous votes. However, there are some things I would like to mention... and also in some way to justify my motive why I will vote against. I have already mentioned today about port indicators, the geopolitical situation and our achievements. All this together in a way justifies why many of those involved in this field are so concerned and why we are also concerned that this innovation will be able to function effectively. Dear colleagues, as we walk this way, we have taken bright ideas from our closest, far-reaching neighbours, but we have built them up in our own way. We look at what has happened to others, and we mention Rotterdam where we need it, where we need it, but forget that these foundations for these good examples are quite the opposite of what the Ministry of Transport now offers and what the Saeima is about to support. In terms of what is the dominant force in the development of the port. And whatever the “state” you would like to say, the best examples in the near, distant neighbourhood show that it is still the municipality that is most interested in the development of its territory, in balanced development. It is a municipality that until now has demonstrated - and has successfully demonstrated - the driving force of development, with its power of will, with its ability, its competence, and indeed the results have been very respectful to us both in Ventspils and in Riga. Colleagues, I took part in the debate, not to mention this, but to reflect more on what the Minister said. With all due respect To distant... Mr Minister, but the fact that you spoke in this debate today and concluded your speech with the words 'I hope that this reform will bring some positive results' shows that you have no confidence in what the outcome of this reform will be. I am convinced that this reform will cause damage. Losses that, as always, will not be accounted for in this country. Losses, where everyone will be able to show each other with their finger - it was their setting, it was a coalition, and various reasons will be - why, there will be a series of excuses, but in the end we are losing time. We lose time used by our neighbours - Lithuania, Estonia - in developing our ports together with local governments rather than in fighting them, building our transit corridor more competitive, working as a team. We will be the ones who fundamentally put the fruit of disagreement into the new model, where these disagreements will inevitably come out, and that has already begun. It's already begun. The law has not yet been passed, but we already have examples of where these disputes come out. And that's the biggest mistake. Whatever the vote today, sooner or later, maybe in this Saeima, although I doubt whether this composition will change anything... but the next Saeima (let's be there or not - whatever the composition of the next Saeima) will be forced to change this law, because the basic principles themselves will force it to do so. The very basic principles of this... as a port, which must be the main propulsion force, is not respected here. And no matter what the composition of the next Saeima is, it will change this governance model. It is only the question that will take responsibility for what has already been lost and what we will lose in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U640	Name to Member Janis Butan. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U641	Hello, colleagues, tonight! At one time, many years ago, I always thought about ports, that these are places where gangs are governed by unscrupulous people, and I could not understand why the government of that time is not doing something for the sake of the matter, in order to finally sort out the ports and make their administration fair. Now that it comes through this process itself to change the management of ports, I understand the people of the time that political will may not always be enough, because there is a need to invest in work, to convince colleagues, and there are many other reasons... What we have managed to do together so far. That is why I am glad that we have come so far, and I am aware of how difficult it will be in the future. And I've heard today a lot of different distorted facts about transit, about the operation of ports. And I will not tell you everything - for every detail, I will not disprove every strange named fact, but I can only say that, until now, the country has already invested many tens of millions in ports. And so far the municipality has benefited very much. In my opinion, it is time for us not only to benefit certain municipalities, but also, as Mr Bondara has already said, the whole of the country. That is why I was in favour of supporting this reform in order to benefit not only the individual people but all the citizens of the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U642	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, will you say something else, Mr. Feldman?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U643	On behalf of the Commission, I should also like to thank the staff of the Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy of the Saeima, particularly the senior consultant Andris Capāns, and the consultant responsible for this draft law, Mara Meister, who took part in the preparation of a table of legislative proposals. Of course, all the other colleagues in the Commission. And, of course, thank you for the endurance of the Saeima's staff, who have to work above normal working hours. Well, what you have to do is do it. Let's see new jobs here. This proposal is welcome. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U644	Members support proposal 61. Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U645	All the proposals have been examined in this respect. I call for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-10-PT13-2358-U646	Thank you to Mr Feldman for his extensive report. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Ports" in the third, final, reading! Please, let's vote! For - 54, for - 14, for - 17. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, The Saeima Presidium announces a break at the second remote extraordinary meeting of February 10th until 9 a.m. on February 17. But before I register the presence of Members, please allow you to present your questions to Members. Members Viktors Valainis, Jānis Dūklavs, Armands Krauze, Edgars Tavars and Janīna Jalinska have submitted a question to the Minister for Agriculture Kaspars Gerhards about the support to farmers in Latvia. Members Ivars Zarins, Valerijs Agešins, Arthur Rubiks, Jānis Tutins and Vladimirs Nikonovs have submitted a question to the Minister for Transport To Farlinkait “On the validity of the solution chosen for the new section of Tallinn highway from Wangaji to Skulte”. Members Jūlija Stepanenko, Lubova Švecova, Māris Možvillo, Karina Sprūde and Ramona Petraviča have submitted a question to the Minister for Health, Danielas Pavļutas, about availability of family doctors and the number of budget seats in medical training programmes. Members Karina Sprūde, Jūlija Stepanenko, Lubova Švecova, Aldis Gobzems, Ramona Petraviča and Ralf Nemiro have asked Members the Minister for Health, Daniel Pavlutas, about the number of patients in hospital statistics for SARS-CoV-2 (COLID-19). And the last is the question put by Members Karina Sprūde, Maris Možvillo, Aldis Gobzems, Ramona Petravičs and Ralphs Nemiro, Minister for the Interior, Maria Golubeva, about violations of epidemiological security and other rules. Dear colleagues, registration of Members' presence is only. It's over. Thank you all for your work tonight. Good evening! A break was announced during the sitting. ( Interruption)
