ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U1	Dear colleagues, We will begin to review the agenda of the second remote emergency session of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 20 January 2022. On the agenda - reports from the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Law” presented by Member Ģirgens, Pucena, Petravičs, Švekovs and Možvillo be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Kaspars Ģirgens.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U2	Good morning, honourable colleagues! Let me start with a little history of criminal responsibility for drunkards. In February 2021, the former Minister of the Interior, Sandis Ģirgens, addressed Members with a proposal to criminalise drunkards... From 1.5 promenades. In March 2021, as a Member of the Saeima, I personally suggested that further solutions are needed to combat this plague, so to reduce the proms, which are now 0.5 and one of the highest in Europe... need to be reduced to 0.2, perhaps even considering the possibility of moving to zero promenades and associate with the fact that drinking alcohol and sitting down at the wheel is not acceptable. At the Cooperation Meeting in April 2021, the Minister of the Interior, Sandis Ģirgens, called on all coalition partners to urgently introduce this criminal responsibility. Unfortunately, support was not obtained from the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns on the grounds that a programme is being developed... which could deal with this problem. In April 2021, this issue was also addressed in a sub-committee chaired by Mr Judin... where both the Prosecutor General and the National Police were present and where it was repeatedly stressed that this is a very topical problem, and the State Police also called for the urgent introduction of criminal responsibility... From 1.5 promenades. The Prosecutor General also stressed that their capacity and forces were sufficient to allow for a rapid and effective examination of these new obligations and also for the imposition of penalties, thus not accepting the claim that this would be a very heavy burden. This issue was promised to come back in the autumn, but we see that it is January 2022 and this issue has not moved forward for a centimetre, just as nothing has happened for about seven years up to now. And these statistics are unfortunately very sad. In total, about 3,500 drivers are detained each year, with just as many bike drivers and moped drivers sitting under the influence of alcohol in addition to this statistics. In total, approximately 700 accidents involving drinkers are caused each year. This means that about two accidents happen every day with a drunkard. Until recently, a very tragic accident took place in Plavnieki, where a family was hit and an eight - year - old girl died. This is a very topical problem for which I personally, and also the former Minister of the Interior, try to provide information to the public and especially to Members, but there is no support. That is why I, honourable colleagues, am calling for these amendments to the Criminal Law to be passed on to the Legal Commission and that, as a matter of urgency, amendments be made in order to criminalise these drunkards. This would mean that it would be possible to arrest drunkards, or that penalties or public works would also be imposed. This is very important, but it will not completely solve the problems that are present. I continue to call for the analysis of the other additional measures that have also been defined by the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Justice - on additional programmes to promote the reduction of the number of drinking spheres - because this is a very big problem. We need to realise once again that we need to act quickly at last. I call on each of the Members to watch the Točki nad i or points to i, yesterday's programme, in which the National Police explained in detail that they agreed with this proposal, which should be introduced, and rebut the accusations that came from the politicians, why these amendments to the Criminal Law should not be moved forward. I'll say thank you very much... and I call on you to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U3	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law on the automatic recognition of higher education qualifications presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Mr. Wucaan, will you talk about it or 'no'?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U4	I would like to talk about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U5	“On” has applied to speak Member Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U6	Good morning, colleagues! Good morning, very honourable Speaker of the Saeima. I have applied to speak on the referral of this agreement to the Foreign Affairs Commission, because this agreement is essentially related to the work of the Baltic Assembly over a long period of time, in essence, from around 2014, when we started to talk about automatic recognition of the three higher education diplomas in the Baltic States. This idea was taken from the Benelux countries in time... from the Benelux Parliament. And it came out that three Baltic countries strengthened the automatic recognition of these higher education diplomas in their laws and regulations earlier than the Benelux countries. Soon after that - in 2018 - the Benelux countries were also able to cope with this task. And why is that necessary? This is a logical step in the process of implementing the so-called Lisbon Convention, whereby we are gradually moving across the European Higher Education Area towards automatic recognition of diplomas. But for automatic recognition of this diploma to take place, there must be trust: one state must trust the investigating institutions of the other state, the procedures for issuing the diploma, and so on. At present, the three Baltic States have demonstrated their trust in each other, as have the three Benelux countries. In addition, it was more difficult for the Benelux countries to do so, because there are five higher education systems in all three countries, but they have done so. The agreement between the Baltic States and the Benelux countries on the automatic recognition of higher education diplomas was signed on 14 September last year, in accordance with the first annex of this agreement... So we - these six countries - could be those first-ranking, if you can say so, within the European Higher Education Area, which would then make it easier to recognise these diplomas... and not only young people, but those who have obtained a higher education diploma in one country and have decided to continue their training, because the treaty will only enter into force after all countries have ratified this treaty in due course, and not immediately, but with three months of delay. And so that the people of our country can benefit from it in a practical way this year (as admission to later periods of study usually starts already in summer), it is important for us that this treaty is ratified by summer. Therefore, I call for support to be given to the transfer of the draft law to the Foreign Affairs Commission and I call on the Foreign Affairs Commission to refer this treaty to the Saeima as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U7	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On the amendment of the agreement of 30 January 2012 between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the terms of transfer of real estate property in Jurmala and Moscow” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the member Možvillo, Gobzem, Sprūde, Petravičas, Krapāne and Nemiro be referred to the Social and Labour Commission as the responsible commission. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Maris Možvillo. You have applied in writing, you should also apply electronically.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U8	Hello, Speaker of the Saeima! Hello, colleagues! Hello, listeners, viewers! This draft law has been travelling for a long time on civil servants' corridors, travelling in ministries... We see that there is a category of officials who actually protect Latvia's interests not only in our country but also in the European Union and who are currently at some risk because they are not sure that their interests will be ensured when they reach retirement age. The purpose of the Law is to provide an official of the State Revenue Service with a degree of service and the right to a service pension to an official performing operational activity. This means that customs officers working on the border who are actually involved in the detention of smuggling, prevention of smuggling, would be socially protected and protected from possible, say, social injuries or losses if there are unforeseen circumstances or... he has dedicated himself, his health and life to the interests of the Latvian state. Please pass this bill to the commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U9	Thank you. So the Member has spoken for. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. I see... So the vote, I am sorry, is the vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Law on Service Pensions for Officials of the State Revenue Service” to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” submitted by the Member Valaiņa, Šauglis, Tatars, Jalinska, Dūklavs and Krauzze (No. 1293/Lp13) transferred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the Commission responsible. ‘ Against” Ms Ilze Indricksone has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U10	Good morning, honourable colleagues and honourable colleagues! Head of sitting! I will call for this draft law not to be passed on to the Commission. And I want to tell you why. The Ministry of Economics and, together, all the cooperation parties and partners involved are actively following the situation - the rise in the price of energy resources - and assessing all the relevant, possible support instruments. Of course, a reduction in value added tax has also been examined, but working together since last week, we have created a solution that will be more targeted and more systematic in supporting the population, households, and also the additional instruments that will affect and support entrepreneurs. In the past - since autumn, since September - the system of support for protected users has been changed. And additionally - support (from November) for protected users. For large families now, every month, the cost of EUR 20 is automatically covered from the bill... electricity. For persons with the first group of disabilities, these are 15 euros; 15 euros for persons who care for children with disabilities. Poor households and people - 15 euros. And low-income households... There is co-financing for municipalities for housing benefits of 50 per cent, and there is also an increase in the rate of housing benefits - from one to two-and-a-half times - for single-resident pensioners or persons with disabilities. Also, of course, the allowance, the monthly allowance, the elderly... and all electricity consumers. There is a reduction of 50 per cent in the costs of the “Distributive Network” services as of 1 December. And from January... was previously decided... a 57 per cent reduction in the mandatory procurement component. And energy-efficient businesses also have the opportunity to get a discount for reducing the mandatory procurement component by up to 85 percent per year. In addition to all these support measures, we have agreed... And next week, the Cabinet will decide on... The State will fully compensate the electricity distribution tariff and the compulsory procurement component for four months, which is the heating season when energy resources are the most significant and the largest. Additional new support will also be introduced - 50 euros per month for every child and also for dependent young students under the age of 24. In addition, EUR 20 - monthly allowance for four months - for all seniors, regardless of the fact of vaccination, as well as for people with disabilities. The increased housing allowance will also be maintained until the end of this calendar year... co-financing of 50 and 50 per cent by public authorities to enable them to apply these coefficients themselves as needed. It's their decision to make this factor... in order to be able to give more support to citizens... increase. And in addition, we have found a solution for how public households will be compensated... You could say, the extreme charge of the costs of subsidized heating and gas heating, which will apply to those households where the cost of heating has increased significantly; the heating of gas has actually taken place in January, and in this case also other forms of heating, where heat is supplied centrally... and the price of gas has had a major impact on the costs... Even from January... for four months. So that we have achieved many good solutions. And it's a reduction in value added tax... is not as a solution, but it would also not help directly purposefully, it could be more supportive to those who spend more, and also to businesses who pay value added tax, would not feel that aid, but the Distribution Network... and the compensation of the mandatory procurement component, it could be said that up to zero there will also be support for economic operators. I call on you not to support the referral.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U11	Thank you. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U12	Hello, very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I thank Mrs Indicice for her very broad outline of what support instruments are already in place and planned to combat this energy crisis in some way. However, in our view, the things that are happening today are not taken into account here. I also think that government representatives in negotiations with municipal organizations, the Latvian Municipal Union have undoubtedly already received signals about what is happening in the market of chips when... Currently, the first contracts are being revised with regard to the price changes of the chips. And, of course, it will also affect those municipalities that are in the 60 per cent, where tariffs have remained unchanged, which, due to different circumstances, are now using chips fuel. There are no many options, in what way... Currently, Latvia uses such energy for heat production. Sliced, that's one of the options. And such costs have now also started to climb substantially. And if we can now say that we have a number of municipalities where tariffs will even fall in terms of heat, then in the long term... to make such a statement... I would allow myself not to do that, however. And it is quite clear at this point that in some way it needs to be depreciated, so that it does not represent an additional burden which, with a high probability (and in many places it will be). We also have a whole range of households that continue to be fueled by wood. The wood is burning its own... households, its wood is purchased. Not everyone has taken care of this in time - sometime in the autumn, summer. These transactions are also taking place today, and for those people who are dealing today, their help is needed, because they are also there because of different circumstances - fuel prices, electricity prices - are rising significantly. That is why, at this point in time, this proposal is to address those groups of households that, unfortunately, the government is not talking about at the moment. On these support instruments that you are talking about, I think we will talk in a different context outside this law... in the context of the proposal, but I would call on the government to take action. All you say is good. 250 million are now being offered... the energy package, but this is already the case... it seems likely to be insufficient. And such solutions, which are immediately clear to all, are the types of aid, such as this value added tax relief for wood, chips and so on, for this type of fuel... is direct, clearly understandable, fast, because... Colleagues, I would remind you that these decisions, which we are talking about today, should have been adopted already during the budget review. All these data were available. You said still in November that everything is fine, that in December you tried to tell people that everything will be all right, enough support instruments have been adopted. And today we see where we are. A week ago, the Prime Minister allowed me to tell you: let the municipalities themselves deal with this situation, and what to confuse here! That was all a week ago, colleagues. Today you have understood how big the problems are. My colleagues and I point out to you that it is healthy... a very serious group, it is the majority of local governments in Latvia, which are now... If we do not intervene in any way, we will be forced - very likely to be forced! - to increase these rates. And that, in my opinion, is what we should all try to avoid. That is what this proposal is about. And shouldn't be confused with everything else. This is a very specific proposal to address a problem that is already today... has been illustrated. The price of the sculpt is rising, in some way it needs to be amortised. Here is a concrete proposal on how to do so. Colleagues! I call for this proposal to be supported and for further discussions within the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) to be held more specifically, inviting experts and seeking the best solutions. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U13	Thank you. Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax (No. 1293/Lp13) transfer to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, making it a responsible commission! Please, let's vote! For - 37, for - 50, for - 1. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” submitted by the Member Valaiņa, Šauglis, Tatars, Jalinska, Dūklavs and Krauzze (No. 1294/Lp13) to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible. ‘ Against’ applied to speak Member Atis Zakaitistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U14	Good morning, colleagues! I will call for the 'no' vote on this proposal. Maybe from the beginning such a little explanation that... for that zero percentage. That zero percentage is contrary to the directive on the common system of value added tax in the European Union. And it just wouldn't be. There would be a need for separate harmonisation. But going on to zero percent... and maybe with a little humor. We must probably be happy that the applicants have stopped at zero, not going in the other direction... whether the government would still have to pay to electricity users. I would like us, however, to look at the situation from a small perspective. Yes, there is an energy crisis. Unfortunately, it is difficult, and it has come relatively unexpected. But let's take a breath, let's blow out... The sun is probably in the ears, and the sun in the west, after the winter, will come spring, after the spring will come summer. What remains remains is the government's obligation to pay pensions, pay wages, pay all the commitments that the government has made. And I think the government should not at any time be ashamed of the need to re-allocate taxes so that all these obligations can be covered. The ease with which we are trying to give up revenue and increase expenditure, while not thinking about public debt... and to do it right now and now - well, that's an impossible thing. Therefore, I would really like us to stop and say: yes, it is difficult, the government has done the best: the 250 million package is ready, but VAT revenue is needed by the state. And they will be needed in spring, autumn and so on. We do not have to apologise for VAT being applied to different products and goods. I call for this proposal to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U15	Thank you. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U16	Colleagues! Reflecting on government action... We see how all of this is reflected... with all support instruments currently in force... how all of this is reflected in people's bills. I'll read you a few. For example, there was EUR 23, now - 55. There were 35, now 75. There were 65, now 105. An increase of 80 percent. Increase from 30 to 80 euros. An increase of 200 percent. There was 240 euros, now 470 euros. From 225 to 638 euros. From 90 to 400. From 95 to 237. From 27 to 62. More recently, the owner of one cafe also pointed out that 1200... currently has an invoice of 4,000 euros. Imagine how much of this man should sell the cotlets to pay for the electricity bill that he has come to him, and what theoretical alternatives can be to him to cook differently without using the resources that are currently available! Colleagues, these increases in electricity bills are exceptional. Mr. Zakatistov talks about coming spring after the winter, then coming summer... but people have received December bills. People have to pay these December bills. People are not interested in long-term solutions sometime in the future. This is the moment when the government must provide a helping hand in the best possible way. Now, the government is first and foremost... and, I repeat, a week ago, thought it was all right that nothing should be changed, that everyone had done everything. When I get the figures for these bills... the opposition has already pointed out in November - during the budget review - that this will be the case. All the data on this showed that such a situation would be, the only one who did not understand it, a government that pretended that it was all right that nothing should be changed. Colleagues, with regard to electricity... The Ministry of Economics came up with a proposal from the beginning of this week that you have to go with the... Such a solution. What has changed? A number of entrepreneurs believe that this option will be something that will have an immediate effect. Quick, easy to understand. If we are talking about some sort of alignment with the European Commission, during this term, we can see how we... that we can direct other draft laws without any harmonisation with the European Commission, arguing that we will do so later. Why, then, could this not be the case that we will do so later? This government has quickly, rapidly, invested 295 million in airBaltic, without any discussion with the public or here in the Saeima. Without any discussion: just one day appears - needed! In the government, in the Saeima, voted. That's it! At a time when people need help, the government is thinking about something. Today is January 20. Are decisions made? The government is about to take these decisions next week, then sometime in the Saeima, and then we are going to see the bills of January, which someone will have to pay. Colleagues, action is needed now, because people expected it a long time ago. We must not come into a situation where such invoices are at all for people on the table. We have already adopted support instruments by the surrounding countries, and we can now analyse what their order is. These solutions are being adopted everywhere. I had the opportunity to be in Ireland and to see the debate during the preparation of the budget. While we were talking about the Flemish, there was talk about supporting instruments for citizens in December, in January: Christmas bonons, which are paid to citizens to help overcome the energy crisis. It was known throughout Europe, only our government pretended not to see it. Today, colleagues, we need to make decisions, and this is a decision that will have an immediate, clear, understandable effect, and we need to stop earning at the expense of citizens. When preparing the budget, base calculations were three times - as a minimum, three times! - less than what is currently the budget revenue from VAT resulting from the payment of these insanity invoices. Colleagues, I support this bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U17	Thank you. Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax (No. 1294/Lp13) transfer to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, making it a responsible commission! Please, let's vote! There's no one for - 36, against - 50, abstaining. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” submitted by the Member Valaiņa, Šauglis, Tatars, Jalinska, Dūklavs and Krauzze (No. 1295/Lp13) transferred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the Commission responsible. ‘ Against’ applied to speak Member Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U18	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Good morning, colleagues! Well, yes, this specific proposal is about another zero-interest VAT rate. As many demagogy and populism as I heard from Viktoras Valaiņa about earlier draft laws, I had never heard before in the Saeima. For example, a reduction in VAT in some way helps businesses. It was also interesting... Such questionable information that, in general, the mass of VAT collected by the national electricity and, more generally, the energy crisis is increasing in such a way that it would be fiscally justified to abolish VAT. I have to say, I would like to see the data on which Mr Valaiņš is based. But closer to the subject. This particular is therefore natural gas, and I must say that we have and will have increasing problems in ensuring the stability of the price of natural gas in the country. It is clear that households, middle-class households, too, are often used for natural gas for heating, but it must be taken into account that it is an import resource from us a country that is geopolitically unfriendly. In this respect, what the government and the constituent parties of governments did yesterday - agreed on a solution... a temporary solution for this heating season directly for natural gas, with a threshold of EUR 34 per megawatt-hour for the price of natural gas for households (i.e. excluding VAT). And this is the price level that was topical between last summer and winter. Consequently, the question of any other support mechanism becomes completely removed and obsolete, because it is thought that this price will actually be frozen. This is not the ideal solution for a free market economy, but there is one thing here. Natural gas, for example, has neither an OIC which has to be abolished nor any other significant charge. Yes, there is a connection fee and so on, but there is no amount of different overheads such as electricity. It will also be assumed next Tuesday, thanks to the government and coalition parties, that these components will benefit from a 100% discount from January. And that, I think, is going to be something. Thus, citizens will no longer see OIC on their bills until at least the summer, as it has remained there. But about that natural gas. It is objectively a comfortable type of heating. Of course, my relatives also use natural gas for heating. This has been its energy policy in Latvia, but unfortunately, the stability of supply, the stability of price levels cannot be relied on. It must be taken into account that in this heating season the government will provide this, either, I would say, perhaps not an ideal compensation mechanism, actually freezing the price at last year's level, which was acceptable to all, but in the next heating season there could be even more problems or problems for those who use gas in summer, for example, for heating warm water, not just for heating, because... As I said, it's known... Perhaps rarely anyone knows about the problems and aggression that our neighbour is currently showing towards a civilised Europe. Of course, natural gas is one of the resources that are traded and potentially... which is subject to payment of money. A number of problems could arise. There could also be transaction problems, sanction problems, and so the price... Well, this is a resource that can't be trusted in the long term. So you have to think about it for middle class households and get rid of it. The alternative, of course, is to wait some X moment, but now there is a solution from the government. I call for this draft law to be rejected because it has become absolutely obsolete from the next Tuesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U19	Thank you. Please call me! Let's vote on the bill... I'm sorry. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U20	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Yes, indeed, I will talk about this draft law and may I disagree with what my colleague, Mr Feldman, said that there is a populism here. I think you very much like to call every proposal by the opposition about populism at the moment. I would like to say that this is, in a way, a sign of weakness coming from the government, trying to say that everything they do is good and what the opposition does is bad. But I think every citizen in his own bill... It is possible to assess how well the government has worked and if indeed these offers we offer, which are supported by businessmen, well-known entrepreneurs in Latvia, including energy experts, who believe that this is still a solution that gives immediate effect... If you say natural gas... It is not a question that should be talked about, but I believe that it is a question that needs to be talked about, because clearly, I think no one can say that natural gas will come tomorrow or tomorrow, or in a year's time or two years will come to an end. We are not ready for such a change, because there is a huge range of consumers. They are whole cities. Daugavpils, Olaine, where the announcement that the tariff would rise 2.6 times came. Of course, yes, these solutions... I agree, these solutions would somehow improve the price leap and these extremes... what is currently emerging, will be prevented, but at the same time, I think, we will have a number of entrepreneurs who are currently not offered any such clear assistance from you. And that is a question that the government has to think about, even though this proposal gives some solution. The same applies to value added tax. Now, of those people who are forced to pay these big bills... and here I am talking more about entrepreneurs who may not be able to replace boilers in a quick way, not everyone is able to... These people do not really have a solution on the part of the government at the moment, and you do not offer it either. You tell me populists walk around here, they offer something. This is a concrete offer. Also those chips for boilers, for example, I do not know, in Jelgava, at the larger minuses are also heated with gas, and it is in every chip station. It's hard for me to imagine if there's any chip station at all where it doesn't happen. This is what happens, and it is a technological need to do so. Colleagues, this offer is also (A sound break.) ... You can tell us about some fiscal frames, something else. I would fully understand, if I did, I don't know, colleagues, well, experienced politicians who have noticed some kind of fiscal framework in some way... This government, colleagues, has borrowed billions abnormally simply, so no one else before that. If the government has been able to borrow four five billion in a very short time, can you say today that all this money has been spent purposefully and needed? I think that is a very big question as to how this money has been spread out. Every Latvian citizen has a question, looking at what has been in the health system, what money has been invested and where it has remained. Everyone looks at each other and wonders. There is absolutely no fiscal policy during this government since the community began. When we need a help mechanism for citizens, then fiscal politicians, whom I would like to call populists, are now beginning to say that we have a fiscal framework, we have to think that that money will have to be returned some time, and those people will already pay the increased VAT so that we get some more revenue into the budget. Colleagues, we offer a fixed-term solution, including natural gas, helping even more citizens to reduce their bills in this winter season. That's what I think it's also... what the people need, that is what the people expect from this government, from the Saeima as a whole. I call for support for this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U21	Thank you. Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax (No. 1295/Lp13) transfer to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, making it a responsible commission! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 34, it's against - 50, it's not. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” presented by Member Možvillo, Sprūde, Petravičas, Švekovas and Stepanenko (No. 1296/Lp13) transferred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the Commission responsible. ‘ Against” applied to speak Member Juris Puce.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U22	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I do not have much to say to the previous speakers. Many of the draft laws examined today are, in fact, the same in terms of their content, and attempts to find solutions are very similar. It should be said that this particular draft law differs from those that were previously examined, perhaps with only one interesting nuance: the authors of the draft law state that the reduction in value added tax will be effective from February last year, which is very difficult to imagine - how such a standard could be implemented in the VAT system at all. Overall, the previous... the arguments put forward by colleagues on shortcomings in that proposal also apply to this law. Government building parties have agreed on a proposal prepared by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Welfare on how to better tackle the energy price crisis. In the near future, it will also be on the Saeima's agenda, and then we will be able to vote on it and support it. I call for this draft law not to be passed on to the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U23	Thank you. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U24	Thank you. Colleagues, reflecting on what Mr Pouce said, I have to apologize (it is certainly a print error), because it was the idea of introducing a reduced rate of value added tax from 1 February this year. To what is the proposal related? The fact that energy prices are rising rapidly not only in Latvia, but also worldwide. Households, families, entrepreneurs, organisations call on the government and politicians to take immediate action in dealing with the energy crisis. In Latvia, the government is discussing. The debate is held in November, the debate is held in December. In January, the first supportive measures finally appeared, and because of the pressure, the government is finally ready to offer a policy that delivers benefits at the end of January, already at the end of January, in response to the energy crisis. What is happening in the neighbouring countries? In Poland excise duty on electricity was abolished, VAT on electricity, natural gas and heating was reduced. Poland, despite the European Commission's last warning about the suspension of the coal mine KWB Turów, continues to use it to extract coal and use it for electricity generation. Germany introduced measures to protect households by granting aid both for heating and by reducing tax rates on energy products. France is supporting short-term measures targeting households, producers. Introduced deferral of payments, tax reductions, additional funding for municipal budgets. Italy has developed and is already implementing a package of measures of 63 billion for households and tax reductions... deferment of payments of three billion. Hungary concluded bilateral agreements, introduced a framework for primary foodstuffs. Lithuania, Belgium and other countries regulate electricity prices. Norway has recorded electricity costs for producers. What is happening in Latvia? Reduction for distribution services, cancelled OIC? The government coalition is just continuing the discussion. And the Prime Minister continues to analyze. Finally this week's fairy tale: Yes, 250 million have been found. Colleagues, we have been last year and this year too, including... It's 50 million... A total of 340 million were invested by airBaltic. We in Liepaja prison will cost 146 million. Repair of the family building will cost 34 million. Colleagues, what measures do we support basically? What are we thinking? What does the government think, what does it do, and what does it do? Short-term support will be provided by compensating electricity distribution services... In the compulsory procurement component, however, VARAM is imposing (and Mr Pouce supports it) a shift from natural gas to solar cells. Do you have a month to develop the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers that lobby the sun... I am sorry, the production and installation of solar panels is a serious solution for the Latvian economy? There is a serious solution for companies that are currently at a significant disadvantage compared to those in Poland, Lithuania, Hungary and even Norway? Do you seriously believe that these offers and benefit policies are the ones that will ensure the competitiveness of society? I believe that this is not possible with the existing package of proposals. That is why I am also asking for support for targeted and controlled application of a reduced tax rate... value-added... to ensure not only the competitiveness of households but also the competitiveness of manufacturing companies, the competitiveness of the economy and thus the maintenance of society as a whole at the normal economic level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U25	Thank you. Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax (No. 1296/Lp13) transfer to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, making it a responsible commission! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Excise Tax” presented by Member Petravičas, Možvello, Švekova, Stepanenko and Tatar be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ “Lubova Švecova, a Member, has applied to speak about”.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U26	Do one of my fellow Members remember the unrest that led to new political forces coming to power, including Unity, and Mr Zatler also became... Prime Minister... and, as a result, very broad social unrest led to the need to offer non-standard solutions, including solutions that needed to stabilise the economy? One of the proposals examined and introduced by the government in 2010 was that of excise tax incentives, including time-limits, so as to ensure stability, so as to reduce inflation growth and to take account of the interests of society as a whole and avoid further and more serious social unrest. If someone thinks that currently Latvia is not on the threshold of social frustration, he is wrong. What do I mean by that? If richer and more economically developed countries have already introduced and apply tax incentives together with other support measures for disadvantaged groups... but our government is still analysing, discussing and forming opinions and exchanging views... then why do we keep sleeping?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Pressure is needed - pressure is also needed on the government from the opposition to get more active in protecting the interests of the economy, protecting the interests of society. It is easy to manipulate a poor society. People on the poverty line are happy if they receive at least a small amount of benefit and can cover the primary needs that the government also offers. It transfers borrowed and taxpayers' money into benefits and believes that such a policy is a solution to the current situation. In essence, they leave a little bone for people to calm down, and they continue to re-allocate the European Union's funds to companies and businesses that are close to them. A prosperous society is demanding; it can count on it, follow it and ask unpleasant questions. This is probably why the government chooses to support the poor, not to build a system where society as a whole becomes prosperous, when entrepreneurship develops and becomes competitive. Rich people are smart people. While other countries, such as Poland, Lithuania, Norway, are setting up and supporting their companies and economies, Latvia is moving away and deepening the gap every day, reducing economic activity and reducing welfare. How do you, the government, intend to implement the industrial policy that you announced very beautifully last year? How can industrialisation in general be carried out at such prices and through the realisation of a benefit policy in the economy?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Reflecting on the philosophical opinions of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Mr Zakatistov, on the responsibility of the government, on the loans - the billions that have been borrowed - I would like to remind you that these borrowed funds will be forced to give back our children and grandchildren. How will Latvian production be able to compete with other countries if the government does not offer energy price stabilisation, adequate measures? And the reduction in excise duty is a measure which can ensure economic competitiveness and stabilise the economy in these circumstances. But what can you expect from the politicians of the ruling coalition and their appointed officials who have learned to bow to Brussels corridors and to perform obediently - 200 percent! - without reservation all Brussels claims, and political elites, who created their own personal financial and political capital by converting and redistributing the funds of the European Union funds. Unfortunately, an absolute arogance, continuing to simulate active activity. I ask the opposition and also the think-tanks to support our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U27	Thank you. ‘ Against’ applied to speak Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U28	Hello! I think that so-called self-proclaimed Europeans in this Saeima can vote safely against this offer... from the opposition, they can vote against their constituents, to whom they promised EUR 500 pensions three years ago. Today people in Pierīga village in Ulbroka receive an invoice for a two-room apartment - 290 euros. One year in advance, it was paid four times less. Civilised Europeans, imagine: you come to the Saeima canteen, take a soup, a kotlet, a compote, something for four euros, because our prices in the Saeima canteen are very low, but suddenly you are told to the cashier: “Lord, you are rich, pay 12 euros, because at the time you took the plate, the stock prices have risen for meat, dairy products and you pay four times more.” What will you say about that? Is it civilised? Is that European? The question is rhetorical. There are services that, unfortunately, we cannot give up... We are forced to pay for them. I could live in my apartment, for example, at a temperature of 15 degrees Fahrenheit, but I have no technical ability to reduce the pressure of hot water in batteries or otherwise reduce this consumption. Technologically, we live on the condition that we consume as much as we are supplied. In my opinion, the idea of reducing VAT and compensating gas prices is very normal and healthy, because the total amount of taxes will be as high as planned, purely arithmetically, if we even lower the rate, but with an increasing price we will ultimately receive the expected amount of revenue. Dear colleagues, Of course, there are people among us who are figuring with various European directives that they do not call. Of course, people like Zakaitistov, Pūce, Feldman can vote against the offer of the opposition, but I will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U29	Thank you. So Member Nikolai Cabanov called on the Saeima to vote against the delegation of the draft law to the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission when speaking "no" to the relevant commission. Colleagues, we have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission to the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 32, it's against - 49, it's not. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that, taking into account both the barricades and the requests from the commissions for interruptions, breaks are planned today from 10.25 a.m. to 11.20 a.m. and from 12.30 a.m. to 13.30 a.m. So actually two hour breaks. The first - by 11.20 a.m., and the second break at the usual time - from 12.30 p.m. to 13.30 p.m. Registration of Members' presence. It's over. Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U30	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! On January 20, 2022, the Saeima continued its second remote emergency session after a break. On the agenda, under the heading ‘Conclusion of the election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust’. Draft decision “On the appointment of Egils Ziedris as Director of the Constitutional Protection Bureau”. Member of the National Security Commission, Maris Kučinskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U31	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U32	We can't hear it, Mr. Kučinsky. We can't hear it. ( Pause) It's okay. Please! ( Pause) We can't hear you. ( Pause) We can't hear it.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U33	Is there a hearing now?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U34	Now - yes, now - wonderful. Thank you, yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U35	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Dear Members, On 8 January 2022, the National Security Council adopted a decision to recommend candidates to the Saeima Egils Ziedra for appointment as Director of the Constitutional Protection Office. On January 10, 2022, the Saeima Bureau sent it to the National Security Commission, and on January 12, 2022, the National Security Commission unanimously supported the candidacy of Egils Swedish... to send the Saeima to the sitting... for appointment as Director of the Office of Constitutional Protection. Egil Swedish. Work experience – 30 years in these services. In the Constitutional Protection Bureau: in 2000 he became an inspector of cases of particular importance to the SAB Intelligence Administration, in 2011 he is already the Head of the Division, but since 2014 he is the Deputy Director of SAB and the Head of the Intelligence Board. Now is the time for new challenges, and the Commission was convinced that Egils Swedishis can and can take up this post and improve his work even more. I ask the Saeima to support it, because all the political groups have listened and, as far as I know, have also expressed their support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U36	Thank you, Mr. Kučinski. Let's start a debate. The name of Member Inese Voika. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U37	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Hello, colleagues and audiences! Development/About! today will vote in favour of Egils Sweden as the new Director of the Constitutional Protection Bureau. We expect him to gain the strong support of the majority of the entire Saeima. Given that even a week ago, when the National Security Council had nominated Mr. Ziedra as a candidate, the media could not find any of his photos and had access to background information about his biography, it is important for Latvian society today to explain to what kind of considerations in support of choosing this candidacy of the head of the Constitutional Protection Bureau. Egils Swedishis has been working in the security structures of Latvia since 1992, immediately after the restoration of Latvia's independence. His work has never been public, but Mr. Swedisha is respected and well-known to his cooperation partners right here in Latvia and received recognition from the services of allies. The situation in our region is unstable. It is important that the main tasks of the SAB as a national security authority for intelligence and counter-intelligence can be carried out smoothly and without interruption. We have full confidence that Mr Swedisha will be ready from the first day with experience and understanding of the functions of this SAB without a new driver normally requiring a flight. What is important in this situation when it comes to determining the choice of the leader? In good organizations, the leaders grow within the organization, and such offices, which have been a reliable partner of international cooperation, protecting not only the secrets of Latvia but also NATO, were created over the years by the previous SAB director Jānis Maizinis, after whose premature death we are now looking for a new leader, and his predecessor Jānis Kažozcins. In the Constitutional Protection Bureau, Mr Swedisha has had an opportunity for growth - from a particularly important case inspector in the Intelligence Administration at the beginning of this century to the head of the Intelligence Administration and deputy director of the SAB 14 years later. Since August last year, Egils Swedishis has represented SAB leadership at international meetings of the European Union and NATO intelligence and security services. It is the international experience, cooperation with partners in the unstable geopolitical situation, the ability to clearly express Latvia's position and create an understanding of the situation from our perspective will be very important in the near future. Mr Swedish has a good introduction in this area so that this task can be successfully dealt with. On several occasions, Mr Swedisha, speaking about the SAB's further plans, had it been approved, stressed that it is not important to chair the office, because its functions and tasks are governed by law. This subject should not be interpreted literally, because the manager in any organisation, but especially in a public institution with a large mandate such as the SAB, plays a major role. His professionalism, his integrity, his ability to manage the collective, to build relations with others within and outside the public administration and essential to communicate with the public and explain the decisions of the Bureau are hugely important. However, what Mr Ziedra said is a good reminder to those who have committed verbal attacks on the SAB regarding the issue of state secrecy allowances to public officials, a reminder that it is the statutory national protection that must not be subject to a political configuration. The debates that are tedious every time a state official is refused permission to issue a state secret appear every time, and that is what we have experienced in this Saeima. Since 2018, the procedure has been changed, allowing officials to turn to court and appeal against the refusal of institutions to issue a special permit to work with a state secret, the person should also be informed of the reasons why it may be denied access to the state secret. And this is a significant improvement in the national tolerance system. In his plans, Egil Swedish has expressed his determination to continue developing the system, and we will wait for proposals. And finally. As the director of the SAB, Egils Swedishis will also be in front of Latvian society. We do not expect him to be immediately found in Facebook, Twitter, instagram and meetings, but we expect him to be open and open to dialogue in communication with Latvian society, explaining the decisions of the SAB and participating in public discussions important to Latvia. This is what we have come to know Mr Swedisha in this selection process and we wish him every success in his responsible position. I call for the vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U38	The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U39	Dear President, Dear colleagues, The National Security Council decided to lead Egils Sweden into the vacant post of Director of the Office for Constitutional Protection in place of the recently departed Jānis Maizins. The National Security Commission unanimously supported Mr Ziedra's candidacy. The Constitutional Protection Bureau is an institution dealing with very serious issues: intelligence and counter-intelligence, protection of state secrets, as well as information classified by the European Union and NATO. Moreover, the Constitutional Protection Bureau is the subject of operational activities, therefore we are interested in supporting a high-level professional and politically neutral candidate. This position must not be taken by casual people. Egils Swedishis has been working in state security institutions since 1992, in the Constitutional Protection Bureau since 2000. Thirty years in the system - that is serious, great experience in the service - this is important. I believe that in this situation - the longer you are in office, the greater your weight. The candidate has a vision of how the Constitutional Protection Bureau will develop in the future, as well as the necessary work tasks, so that the Office will be able to deliver a result. If a person claims to have such a post and there is little information about him, that is very good, in fact - even welcome, because I think one of the threats to national security is gloomy officials who regularly do not use the opportunity to obey wisely. Sadly, however, they do not think of the risks that might result from a less intelligent expression of opinion at times. Other officials, on the other hand, simply like to show their awareness. I believe, however, that it is not necessary to make unwise statements to depress society, and I call on politicians and people not to do so in politics. In this case: speaking - silver, silence - gold. I do not have any information to show that Egil Swedish is particularly sympathetic to one political party. In my opinion, the presence of Mr Swedisha outside the interest groups is a very important factor. If a person applying for this post directly is a politically neutral professional, then he has great chances of being elected. The Constitutional Protection Office must work in such a way that people can feel confident and confident that it is an institution on which they can rely. At the same time, I believe that situations of conflict between several countries can be effectively overcome by diplomatic means. Let diplomats speak and cannons remain silent! If we analyse and value the terrorist threat, then I would like to point out that Latvia is one of the most safest countries in the world, we are at low risk. We think that we should start to actively use this fact and position Latvia as the safest place in Europe. Perhaps anti-terrorism security can become Latvia's new idea. If we were to develop this message wisely, then it would probably become more attractive for investors, such as those from Western Europe. Think about it! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U40	I closed the debate. Please, Mr Kučinski, do you want to say something on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U41	On behalf of the Commission, another advantage that has not been mentioned is that from today, after approval, he can quit because he knows the sector, he also has support from similar institutions that we still have in Latvia. Thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U42	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the appointment of Egils Ziedrs as Director of the Constitutional Protection Bureau”! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision “On release from office of a judge of Zemgale regional court Visvalžas Sprudzāns from office of a judge”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U43	Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting! Dear colleagues, During the meeting of the Legal Commission on 11 January, the draft decision “On Dismissal of Visvaldis Sprudzāns, a judge of Zemgale regional court from the office of a judge” was reviewed. The members of the Commission unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I invite to release Visvaldis Sprudzāns, the judge of Zemgale regional court from the office of a judge at his own wish from January 27, 2022.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U44	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On Release of Visvaldis Sprudzāns, a Judge of Zemgale Regional Court from Judicial post”! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 83, it's against - 1, it's not. Decision adopted. Draft decision “On the dismissal of Juris Freimanis, a judge of Riga Regional Court from the office of a judge”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U45	During the meeting of the Legal Commission on 11 January, the draft decision “On the dismissal of Juris Freimanis, a judge of Riga Regional Court from the office of a judge” was reviewed. The members of the Commission unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I invite Juris Freimani, the judge of the Riga Regional Court, to be released from office of a judge at his own wish from February 4, 2022.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U46	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the dismissal of Juris Freimanis, a judge of Riga Regional Court from office of a judge! Please, let's vote! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. The decision ‘On approval of Inna Lipša as a district (city) court judge’. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U47	At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 11 January this year, the draft decision ‘On the approval of Inna Lipša as a district (city) court judge’ was considered. The members of the Commission unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call on Inna Lips to approve the district (city) court judge without any limitation of his term of office.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U48	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the approval of Inna Lipša as a district (city) court judge! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Decision adopted. The decision ‘On the appointment of Lāsma Lipkin as a judge of a district (city) court’. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U49	At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 11 January, the draft decision ‘On the appointment of Lāsma Lipkinas as a judge of a district (city) court’ was considered. The members of the Commission unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I invite Lāsma Lipkinas to be the judge of the district (city) court by 7 February 2022. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U50	Thank you for your report, Mr Agešin. Please call me! Please vote on the draft decision “On the appointment of Lāsma Lipkinas as a judge of district (city) court”! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, On the agenda, the third section "Handling draft legislation". Draft law “Amendment to the Saeima Election Law”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Viktors Valainis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U51	Dear colleagues, We shall continue the examination of the draft law “Amendment to the Saeima Election Law” before the second, final, reading. We received two proposals from the Commission, and we also developed 3. - the Commission's proposal. Colleagues, let's start examining the proposals. 1. - Mrs Šuplinska's proposal. This implies that in the next Saeima elections Varakļānu novads belongs to Latgale electoral district. In the Commission, the proposal was examined and rejected following discussions. Both Mrs Šuplinska will explain her reasoning. In the Commission, however, following the debate, this proposal was not supported; 3. - the Commission's proposal, which in some way addresses at least part of these problems. Thank you to Mrs. Šuplinsk...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U52	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Long Schuplinsk. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U53	Hello! Lobby dyna! Oh, my God! Mr Valaiņš pointed out precisely: there was indeed a discussion in the Commission. I would remind you of the arguments put forward in the debate, which came from very different Members. First of all, it was pointed out that the proposed proposal... and my proposal, which was also tabled, was that the region of Varakļāni should be included in Latgale electoral district for as long as it exists. So, first of all, it is a political proposal. Secondly, it is a tradition that has lasted for 30 years. Thirdly, the proposal is only put forward to make sure that it is a larger patriot in Latgale. The first one. So a political proposal. It should be noted that as a result of several events, the Latvian Historical Lands Law came into force on 1 July 2021. In particular, this law contains an entry similar to Article 7 of the Satversme, which allows, in principle, to connect two things that are often incompatible with the Latvian system, namely, Article 7 of the Satversme speaks of electoral districts, while Section 4 eleven of the Latvian Historical Lands Law provides that if a municipality... issues relating to territorial origin are also addressed on the territory of the country, and these cultural and historical boundaries must be respected in the first place. And that only means that... Both - both the Article of the Satversme and this specific law - have entered into force at this time, and this means that the decision, when it comes to the electoral districts of the Saeima, would not be political at this moment, but on the contrary - respectful of the regulatory documents in force in the legislation, and the other - respect for historical truth. The second argument. It's a tradition for 30 years. Among other things, Mr Pouce has pointed this out several times. I will remind you: it is not a tradition for 30 years, it is a tradition from 1954, that is, from the moment when it was precisely under the influence of Soviet ideology that any ancient parishes and districts were reduced, I must say, territorial restrictions. And for some reason this aspect, which is related to the Varaclanes, is still ongoing, despite the fact that the current survey clearly shows that one of the factors of speciality that has been in the territory of Latgale, namely, in 2017... Today more than 75 percent of the population still use Latgalian, and even students under 18 years of age, regardless of the fact that in principle three generations of the language can die, understand and also use Latgalian in communication. Proposal No 3 - which is a major patriot in Latgale. I will point out that, in principle, Latgale remembers in two cases. First, when people want to sing or drink. And the second when the elections come. I will begin with what is the second, that is, we celebrate the centenary of the Saeima this year. When the Saeima elections took place in Latvia during the twenty years, all parties counted with Latgale, because the largest proportional number of leading members came from Latgale. At this point, the situation is completely second, and even more so, after accession to the European Union, given that there have been the least jobs in Latgale, there has been the most rapid outflow from Latgale. Another aspect that must be taken into account. In a poll on this specific characteristic - language knowledge - the Variclanes, as I have already mentioned, have indicated that they belong to Latgale in a truly cultural and also mental factor, at this moment in principle, cannot help Latgale to solve its problems in a specific way, because, I recall, Article 7 of the Satversme provided for this proportion from the counties to respect its specific features - development features, language features and others - which are more specific in Latgale than elsewhere. This simply means that, of course, it is more convenient. Let us only remain at the first feature, namely, that Latgale chooses when it is convenient, because, it should be pointed out, often this border - political and, at some point, also national - unfortunately still goes through Aiviekte. And that means that, without the adoption of this proposal, the line of both Soviet ideology and the violation of the rights of Latgale as a constituency continues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U54	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, what do you want to say, Mr. Valaiņš?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U55	Yes, on behalf of the Commission, it is essential to understand that the main aim of the draft law is to provide a clear justification of why such a solution is chosen and basically to maintain the order in which it has existed, as Mrs Šuplinska said, for 30 years. The procedure will be changed at a time when the Saeima will make its choice in the context of administrative territorial reform. A decision on the substance will then also be made, where Varakļānu region belongs. In this case, following discussions, the Commission rejected the proposal, but made proposal 3, which clearly states that the solution currently proposed by the Saeima will only work on 14. The parliamentary elections, and this was also agreed upon. On behalf of the Commission, I call for this proposal to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U56	Thank you for your explanation. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - The offer from Member Long Schuplinsk! Please, let's vote! For - 19, for - 54, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U57	Colleagues, so we keep looking... 2. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Identical for proposal 1. 2. Neither can it be supported. I do not think it is possible to vote either.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U58	Yeah, that's right. Not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U59	3. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. It is envisaged that such a framework should be limited to 14. Saeima for the election, assuming that 14. The municipalities should find a solution for Varakļāni municipality. The proposal gained unanimous support following the Commission's debate. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for proposal 3.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U60	Members have not requested a vote. Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U61	Consequently, I also call for support to be given to the draft law at second, final, reading. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U62	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on the second, final, reading of the Saeima Election Law! Please, let's vote! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the control of the spread of infection”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Ilze Indricksone. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U63	Hello, fellow Members, again! The budget and financial (tax) commission has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection”. Eight proposals were received in preparation for the second reading. 1. - Member Pimenova's proposal. It is envisaged to exclude an article which empowers the Cabinet to identify sectors which have been seriously affected by the financial situation due to Covid-19 spread. The Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U64	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U65	Hello, honourable Members! Honourable Members! So it's my proposal. In Article 2 of the Covid–19 Law on the Management of the communicable Effects of Covid–19, the Cabinet of Ministers shall, when assessing the economic situation, establish criteria and procedures for the application of special support mechanisms to taxpayers affected by the crisis caused by Covid–19. The Cabinet of Ministers shall determine, where appropriate, the sectors which, due to the expansion of Covid-19, have been seriously affected by the financial situation. In accordance with the delegation provided by the Cabinet of Ministers to the Cabinet of Ministers Regulations No. 675 “Regulations on Supporting Taxpayers for Continued Activities in Covid–19 Crisis” by the Cabinet of Ministers Regulations No. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. On 7 December, 806 were amended to deprive almost all employers, the self-employed, the patent fee payers and the beneficiaries of royalties, with the exception of bar activities, gambling and betting, leisure and recreation professionals, as well as cultural workers and artists, of the right to apply for wage subsidies for the period up to 31 January 2022, and thus the end of this month. Meanwhile, the financial situation of a number of other sectors has deteriorated. In particular, those sectors where enterprises and the self-employed have significantly reduced their customers have suffered from a pandemic situation. Co-citizens working in self-isolation are less likely to visit cafes, motivation to use hairdressers, cosmetologists and beauty salon masters is decreasing. Sectors whose use of services is postponed by customers waiting for the end of an emergency, such as dental hygiene, are also suffering. Dental patients usually only apply for treatment once they have already experienced severe pain. The Minister for Economics answered the urgent question of ‘On aid for wage subsidies in the exceptional situation declared by the Covid-19 pandemic’: the Ministry is aware that in the current situation economic operators may have a reduction in revenues, which is largely linked to a reduction in activities in society, but according to the Minister, it is necessary to take into account that the economic operator, who has no direct limitations and is allowed to carry out economic activities, has had sufficient time since March 2020 to adapt to changing circumstances. I'd like to just... I understand that a serious discussion about the Minister's response to Members' questions is still ahead, but my first reaction is that the only way to adapt to changing circumstances is simply to change the profession if we do not speak seriously about simply being able to register on the unemployed stock exchange. I think that this response is not professional and constructive. The government policy in fact means refusing to provide support to businesses and the self-employed during an emergency. This policy is possible because the law strengthens the prerequisite that allows the Cabinet to support some sectors, while others do not support them. I believe that aid must be sufficient to prevent companies and the self-employed from falling critically. It is therefore necessary to repeal the rule of law which gives the government the opportunity, in its view, to support certain sectors, but to ignore the demands of other sectors. I call for my proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U66	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, will you say what, Mrs. Indricksone?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U67	On behalf of the Commission, I would remind you that this proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U68	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Member Igora Pimenova's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U69	2. - the proposal of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Minister of Finance, Rinkēvičs, to address the issue of the possibility of ensuring that municipal capital companies can borrow from the Treasury a loan for the purchase of fuel if a municipal company needs it to be able to ensure the continuity of heating services when assessing these risks. And this was the impetus of the Latvian Municipal Union last week. The Commission supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U70	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U71	3. - the proposal by Member Petraviča, which provides for the re-payment of one-off aid of EUR 500 per child. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U72	Thank you. Let's start a debate. The name of Member Ramona Petraviča. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U73	Dear President, Dear colleagues, The proposal provides for one-off aid of €500 per child between 1 February of this year and the end of the emergency situation. Such a proposal was adopted last February on the basis of the need for support for families with children - Covid-19 to manage the consequences and build confidence in the government. Then the morbidity rate in Latvia was about 550. Given that this indicator is now at least more than 1.5 times greater and the negative impact of Covid-19 on families has not been mitigated, all reasons for prior support still exist. In addition, there are two other reasons for supporting the proposal. The first is an increase in the index of consumer prices, thus also inflation. For comparison: index value has increased by 8.5 percent in February. And yet for comparison: the 2008 crises... during the same period, it was 6.3 per cent. The consumption price index is not the only worrying economic indicator. With such indicators, the budget of Latvian families may drop so far that they are likely to give up the increase of the family in the near future for financial reasons, as well as severely reduce the welfare of families, especially children. Both of the government's reasons for supporting the previous allowance. It should be noted that this does not apply to minor goods, but concerns gas, electricity, food and transport. Voluntary support mechanisms for reducing the impact of energy price increases are not sufficient at a time when families have children. If the government does not consider this a necessity, it is not clear to me how they will explain to large families or families on the poverty line... And the other reason is the increase in family maintenance costs. In addition to the above, it should be borne in mind that, due to unwise regressive policies by governments, many family members have been forced to leave all or part of their jobs or spend a significant part of their resources on the purchase of tests - almost every social activity. This drop in income affects families with children who need to be provided to the same extent; in particular, the state family allowance has fallen for those who currently have one child, but the order number is the third or the fourth... and they received a higher amount of the national family allowance in the past. The current support mechanisms, as an inexhaustible income for the pandemic of dependent children and the precarious economic situation, are insufficient and often not available to families. Creating the financial security of families requires uncompromising steps which do not differentiate between vaccination status, child numbers and other parameters designed by the government. For the reasons set out above, I am calling for support to be given to support families: for every child, EUR 500. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U74	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mrs Indricksons.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U75	The Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U76	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - The proposal of Member Ramon Petravič! Please, let's vote! About - 28, against - 48, abstaining - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U77	4. - a proposal from Member Petravičs. Provision shall be made for the payment of a lump sum of EUR 300 for all persons who have reached retirement age or who receive one of the pensions, as well as for survivors' compensation or for loss of capacity for work. This proposal was not supported by the Commission either.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U78	Thank you. Let's start a debate. The name of Member Ramona Petraviča. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U79	Colleagues! The proposal provides for the payment of a lump sum allowance of EUR 300 to a person living in Latvia who, during the period from 11 October 2021 to the end of the emergency situation, is a beneficiary of an old-age, disability or survivor’s pension, a beneficiary of a child’s disability allowance or a beneficiary of a allowance for persons with disabilities who are in need of care. The government's current support package for seniors and people with disabilities is ridiculous and comparable to pocket money for students. It must be clear that at the current economic situation of EUR 20 per month... the government will not achieve the expected financial security and confidence in it. The government's position must be a lot... for two main reasons. First. Covid-19 has a disproportionately negative impact on these groups of people, from unavailability of scheduled health services to reduced access to society and income. Groups of these people... alternative cases where the government does not intend to support them... are almost non-existent. Supporting the proposal would allow them to cover unforeseen costs arising from the Covid-19, which would, at least until the end of the emergency situation, provide a better livelihood. And the other reason is a general rise in prices for goods and services. I have already pointed out in advance a worrying trend in economic indicators, which will significantly reduce the income of the most vulnerable. Seniors and people with disabilities are often unable to afford to buy goods in most cases or to save money at the cost of medicines. I have received letters from many times, where people describe the poor quality of medicines, the compensation of which... they have to pay for themselves. And in this situation, they practically have to live in a cold apartment and choose between normal food or disease... And EUR 20 is in no way capable of covering the difference, so if the proposal is rejected, the coalition decides people to poverty. It is unacceptable that the coalition is trying to support only a narrow electoral block and is setting up support mechanisms only to look productively. I call for support to be given to the proposal to pay a lump sum of EUR 300 for seniors and people with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U80	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mrs Indricksones... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U81	The Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U82	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - The proposal of Member Ramon Petravič! Please, let's vote! - 33, against - 45, refrains - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U83	5. - Mr Valaina's proposal. Provision shall be made for the payment of a lump sum of EUR 200. And the target audience, the target group, is the same as in the previous proposal. This proposal was not supported by the Commission either.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U84	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U85	Very respectful Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, I understand that all days are definitely quite full of work, and maybe you have not noticed the letter sent to you by the Latvian Pensioners Federation. That is why I will allow you to say a little about the things that the Latvian Pensioners' Federation has pointed out to you. First of all, the Latvian Pensioners Federation expresses its concern and reasonable concern about the unspoken and painful situation of the state old-age and disability pensions, as well as about the living conditions of the recipients of the state social security benefit at a time when prices for food - bread products, milk and cereal products, vegetables and fruit - are rising. The Latvian Pensioners Federation also believes that people are deeply concerned at the moment about its expectations, its concerns about new bills about gas and electricity. Many now report that the adjusted monthly electricity payments have doubled; they will have to be paid again in February... Municipal payments and transport costs are also increasing. The current compensatory mechanisms cannot cover the rapid deterioration in living standards. Already in 2021, very many pension beneficiaries were forced to refuse housing benefits in cases where the monthly pension was over EUR 255. Unthought and unbalanced decisions lead to frustration, extra load, and stress. Although some corrections have now been made, old and sick people will again have to go to social services to submit proofs and certificates requested, to pay again for ordering a certificate and to spend money on travel expenses. It is the view of honorable seniors that it is humiliating to ask for social assistance on the basis that the basic laws of our country determine a decent life in old age, without poverty and poverty. For example, it offers seniors to set pension compensation on the basis of the principle of compensation of the Saeima and government... as regards annual inflation. The Latvian Pensioners Federation believes that, as a matter of urgency, senior officials of our country must take a decision to improve the living conditions of seniors and disabled people during an emergency, setting out the means to pay a lump sum allowance - not less than 200 euros, at the same time, hastened to consider issues of basic pension from the basic state budget for each pension recipient from 1 January 2023 by drafting the necessary regulatory acts in due time. Dear colleagues, this is the opinion of the Latvian Pensioners Federation, which has been signed by the leadership of the Latvian Pensioners Federation. This letter has been sent to all Members of the Saeima. So if you look... I very much hope that many of you have met them... both the Head of Government and the Speaker of the Saeima... and, on the basis of this letter, I submitted this proposal. And in this respect, I would like to say that it is quite disrespectful at the moment... To the elders, you are saying, in essence, yesterday's announcement, that the situation has improved more than twice today against the situation as it stood a year ago. Disposable benefits - this is not any news, it is no wonder, it is not only in Latvia, it is also happening in other countries, it is also happening in our municipalities. Local authorities also provide lump sum benefits, but at this point the state has to give a helping hand. Last year, after long discussions with the Ministry of Welfare, I came to the conclusion that this is EUR 200 that people need to help overcome these difficult circumstances. But you will agree - last year's situation compared to what is happening today - that is completely diametrically opposite; today, the situation is much more serious. The Covid's challenges have not disappeared anywhere, they have been faced with inflationary challenges, and seniors have been offered EUR 20 per month - I think it's hard to do so, and it will not be able to resolve the issues raised by the Latvian Pension Federation in this letter. As a minimum, at last year's level, and I also offer it now, my fellow Members, to you. EUR 200 - lump sum allowance plus all the other benefits you are talking about. An allowance of EUR 200 would be a respectful attitude towards our seniors, whom they certainly deserve. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U86	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U87	Dear President, Dear colleagues, I would like to mention an additional argument to what Mr Valaiņš, my group colleague, has already mentioned in this proposal. Many will point out that, as a result, we can not help enough people... from the coalition... for seniors. I would like to say, colleagues - seniors, seniors of Latvia, as well as all those who meet these criteria, for whom this EUR 200 allowance is not enough for seniors, who perhaps do not qualify for poor or low-income status... so he can pay off the electricity bills that... There's almost 200 percent increase in heat... We are still hearing - new and new municipalities with more than 100 percent growth... Gas has over 50 percent increase... Food producers notify us every day of new increases, they are no longer 10 or 11 percent, they are already measurable in several dozens of groups of goods. The Latvian elder spends this money that the country can give him... to the big taxpayers... Dear Members of the Coalition! This money we give to the Latvian elder, helping him to overcome, really objectively overcome this problem, which is currently a huge inflation in our country... he spends this money on big taxpayers... Practically, this money... As a result, most of this money is returned to the state budget indirectly. Therefore, colleagues, it is necessary to help really those groups of people who have stunted this country, who have not left this country, who have raised their children, grandchildren who are currently working, but cannot be enough... perhaps also maintain their own households, because this rise in costs is extremely high. You promised that there would be more... clear support mechanisms, but still not put into practice, that is just a promise. We remember - a week ago, a member of the National Union, Mrs Indicice, called for the rejection of the proposal put forward by the Greens/Farmers Union to freeze prices in fact and... that there will be a solution from the government, but what we saw was a dispute in a public space where a couple of ministers argue with other ministers. As a result, some agreement has been reached; it has been promised in the right direction, but nothing has yet been brought to life; it is still empty promises. But in the light of the previous, I will say that the disinformation that has also been expressed by Members of the Saeima Coalition is about commitment... Here is a specific proposal: allowance, support for our seniors, the most vulnerable part of society. Colleagues, let us now be a little sympathetic, patient and understanding! Contacting the region round, talking to seniors about how they live, how much they leave their pension for rent, how much they pay for the utilities, and how much bills they pay. They've long been left with money on drugs. Such a one-off allowance straight away at a time when the heating season is full of prosperity, when in February people will receive new bills - for January - where the tariff has doubled for many who have already... they have not yet been received - it would really be at least a small support for people to expect a spring in some faith and hope, perhaps a warmer time, when there will be smaller electricity and heating bills. Therefore, my fellow Members, I share the call for support for this particular proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U88	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mrs Indricksones... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U89	Commission 5. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U90	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - Member Viktor Valain's proposal! Please, let's vote! There's no one for - 33, against - 49, abstaining. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U91	6. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau to exclude Article 5 of the draft law. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U92	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U93	7. - the proposal of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, which provides for the extension of the transitional provisions subject to the continuation of the emergency measures during this year. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U94	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U95	8 / 8 - Mr Valaiņa's proposal, which provides for the payment of compensation for the price of electricity exceeding EUR 80 per megawatt-hour. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U96	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U97	Very respectful Head of the sitting! I will explain the meaning and substance of this proposal. With this proposal, we would like to oblige the Cabinet of Ministers to draw up and adopt appropriate amendments to the Cabinet of Ministers' regulations, which would provide that if the monthly price exceeded 80 euros per megawatt hour, the population would be compensated for the increase... 80 percent... for that part of the price exceeding EUR 80 per megawatt-hour. Such an aid instrument would be direct and would help everyone to reduce electricity bills immediately. Colleagues, we would also like to emphasise with this proposal that we see that this should act retroactively so that it also affects the December bills that citizens have received today. Colleagues, such an approach is not unique; similar mechanisms are also being implemented in our neighbouring Estonia. I call on you to support this approach; it would be an immediate, very specific mechanism, which, in a sense, is also similar to the one that the government itself has developed at the moment with regard to heat tariffs, but with great relentless refusal to influence... on the electricity bill... this rise in electricity tariffs... I mean, the heat tariff also... these (not to be heard) ... to adjust, it is proposed to determine this average median. We have proposed to fix this median. So, EUR 80 per megawatt-hour - that would be the border over which... if these invoices go above it, the compensation of these costs shall be borne by the State budget. Of course it would. Undoubtedly, there is a cost for such a proposal. This depends to a large extent on the price of the stock exchange and how it walks, but generally this approach is feasible. This would bring an immediate result... people... their bills; there would be clear state aid, and people would not even get such invoices; for people, these bills are insane, inexpensive. And I think for the state like this... It's the same offer... We just offer... At first, we offered to look much more at... not only about heat tariffs, but also about electricity... And I think this is the main problem at the moment, which should be tackled in the first place. I still believe that now more... On the basis of this government's current offer, which has an impact of 250 million... Clearly, this offer will not be enough to cover this increase in cost of life. Increasing the cost of life... for electricity bills... There will be more than the support provided to cover this cost of life per household. I think the next bills will come, and we'll be able to go back to stories, very specific stories... Well, then how... 90 to 400 or 225 to 638... then maybe... It's gonna be a story of 225, but now it's 550. What does this change? That invoice is also extremely large. This proposal would make it very clear that everything that is above these 80 euros per megawatt hour... it is then compensated, and then this increase would be, in the limits... Reasonable... Well, 20 percent... 30 percent, but not twice... 400 percent... for entrepreneurs, these increases... Well, how can you explain... How do they pay this? That means just... We just met with rural tourism... with the leadership of the Latvian Restaurant Society, and there these stories are quite tragic. These bills are such that these types of business... just shut up; it's no longer that employees drive away, that's that owners sell and go away... sells pots, sells pans and drives away, just drive away because they're here... It's not possible - to pick up so many kotletes... There is no one who buys them to pay these bills. And so do the people. The bills that have arrived today must somehow be paid. We're going to support SMS credits? There will now be a huge demand for this, and the government has created this demand. I'm sorry. Colleagues! I call for this proposal to be supported. This is a concrete, realistic solution. I think there is no doubt about this. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U98	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U99	Dear President, Colleagues! This proposal was drafted by our group with experts. And in fact, following the presentation of this proposal, we have received many positive opinions from energy experts and economists - opinions that indeed this is a proposal that would help each Latvian household meaningfully, each producer, especially those producers (including food producers), whose production process is energy-intensive. This proposal provides for the fixing of these price ceilings and (A sound defect) ... this difference... 80 percent... 30 April. It would not be for long, long times; it would be until 30 April, when we can also review the circumstances that have changed on the Nord Pool stock exchange... Total... actually free market. We want to help each household, because on the current proposals, which are, of course, better than nothing and which have now only been oralally expressed by the coalition, but which have not yet been put into practice anywhere - they are still just promises - there is some support for families, there is some support for the various... criteria, but this will not help or decrease - certainly will not decrease! - infusion. On the contrary, we will see that food prices in stores will continue to rise, people will have to pay for the same basket of goods as they have bought in the past, significantly higher because production costs are rising. And the same thing is for every individual natural person, the household. Not all households meet certain criteria, but these people, especially young people, who are studying or having finished their studies and have just begun working, do not count as poor or poor. And they'll have very serious problems with their... with this winter, as they say, pulling out, hibernation. As we heard from the coalition before, spring will come, warmer, better... And then will definitely come the mushrooms' time again... and so on. No, colleagues, this is a meaningful solution that helps everyone, especially if we want to focus together on making a shopping cart for Latvian society, including seniors (the sound defect.) ... families and also those people who have no children yet... so that this shopping cart for the money they bought remains to the same extent as it has been so far. And it's a sound defect. ... the most important section if we are talking about Latvian producers. In the meantime, we have met and talked to a number of producers with energy-intensive production, and the situation is very, very catastrophic. We have made a comparison of how ceilings and prices are regulated by countries of the European Union, not only by the Member States of the European Union. And this really is, in our opinion, one of the most meaningful proposals. If we could not reduce VAT, which would also be some support for entrepreneurs in the short term from the point of view of cash flow, not from the point of view of balance sheet value, but from the point of view of cash flow, because it is also important to pay invoices in time... A reduction in VAT would have had a serious impact on households and individuals. But in this case we are talking about the entire Latvian economy as a whole, so I also join in the call to support the specific proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U100	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mrs Indricksons.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U101	8 / 8 - Mr Valaiņa's proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U102	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - Member Viktor Valain's proposal! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 32, it's against - 48, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U103	We have examined all eight proposals. The Commission generally supported the orientation of draft laws to the second, final, reading. I invite you to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U104	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection” in the second, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Dear colleagues, There's one minute left. I think we will continue to look at the agenda after the break. Registration of members has expired. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U105	Dear Members, Honourable Members! We are continuing the examination of the agenda of the second remote emergency session of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 20 January 2022. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Ilmārs Dūritis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U106	Hello, very honourable chair of the sitting! Dear colleagues, The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs has worked on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance” before the third reading. At third reading, there is only one proposal for these amendments, which has been set up by the Social and Labour Commission itself. The proposal provides, in substance, for a clarification of the time when the law enters into force, namely that the law enters into force on the day following its publication. The Commission was supported. I ask Members to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U107	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U108	All the proposals have been examined and I therefore call on the Saeima to support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U109	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third final reading of the draft law on social services and social assistance. Please vote mode! No, 66, against and refrains. The law is passed. The next item on the agenda is the draft law on alarm, third reading. On behalf of the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government - Member Juris Pūce. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U110	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, So we work with the bill “Warning Law” (No. 1167/Lp13) at third reading. At the third reading, the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government received three proposals, all of them from the Prime Minister, and also supported them, but we will go through them in turn. 1. - The proposal by Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš. The terminology of the third paragraph of Article 5 of the draft law is clarified by extending these requirements to municipal institutions, not all public bodies, according to the interpretation of the Directive. This proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U111	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U112	2. - also the proposal of Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš. Provision shall be made for a clarification of the fifth paragraph of Article 6 of the draft law, laying down the procedure by which a report submitted by an alerter but not marked as a alerter's report is to be accepted by the competent authority as an application which is a alerter's report. This proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U113	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U114	3. - also the proposal of Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš. Supplements the conditions of entry into force of the draft law that the law shall enter into force on the day following its publication. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U115	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U116	Consequently, all the proposals that we have examined in the Commission have been supported. The Commission has supported the draft legislation at third reading. Please also support the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U117	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the draft law on alarm actions in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! No, 73, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. The next item is the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Police” (No. 1120/Lp13), third reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Mārtiņš Steins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U118	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Hello, colleagues, colleagues! Hello, the audience and the audience! The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption at Third Reading has examined the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Police”” (No. 1120/Lp13). No proposals have been received. The Commission has supported the draft law at third reading. I also ask the Saeima to support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U119	Thank you. Please call me! Vote on the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Police”” (No. 1120/Lp13) support for the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda of the next sitting - Draft law on amendments to the Law on Police (No. 1134/Lp13), third reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Mārtiņš Steins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U120	Welcome again. The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption has also examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Police”” (No. 1134/Lp13). Two proposals have been received. 1. - the proposal by the Minister for the Interior, Maria Golubeva. The second paragraph of Article 5 provides that the police shall protect the rights and legitimate interests of persons irrespective of their nationality, social, property and other status, race and nationality, gender and age, education and language, treatment of religion, political and other beliefs. That Article reinforces the prohibition of differential treatment or discrimination in police work. The wording of the norm included in the proposal is created by similarity with Article 8 of the Criminal Procedure Law and Article 6 of the Administrative Procedure Law. The proposal is supported by the Commission. I also call on the Saeima to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U121	Members have requested a vote on this proposal. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the proposal submitted by the Minister for the Interior, Maria Golubeva! Please vote mode! - 51, against - 12, refrains - not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U122	2. - There is also a proposal from the Minister for the Interior, Maria Golubeva. Clarifying the rule. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U123	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U124	I invite the Saeima to support the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Police” (No. 1134/Lp13) for the third, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U125	Thank you. Please call me! Vote on the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Police”” (No. 1134/Lp13) support for the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! No, 73, against and refrains. The law is passed. On the agenda of the next sitting - Draft Law Amending the Law on the Processing of Aircraft Passenger Data, third reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U126	Hello! We have also examined in the Commission the draft law on “Amendments to the Law on the Processing of Aircraft Passenger Data”. No proposals for third reading have been received. I call on the Saeima to support this draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U127	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the third, final, reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Processing of Aircraft Passenger Data! Please vote mode! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. The next item is the draft law amending the Law on Arms Movement, third reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U128	Welcome again. The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption has also examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Arms Movement” at third reading. One proposal has been received. 1. - the proposal by the Minister for the Interior, Maria Golubeva. Pursuant to Article 3 of the draft law... excluding the word ‘direct’ and adding after the word ‘residence’ with the word ‘Latvia’. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U129	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U130	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U131	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Arms". Please vote mode! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda of the next sittings - Draft law on Amendments to the Corporate Income Tax Law, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Lubova Švecova. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U132	Colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Corporate Income Tax Law” (No. 1244/Lp13). The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined this draft law and supported the amendments. The draft law is designed to avoid an increase in the administrative burden of corporate tax on taxpayers who are bound by international financial reporting standards in accordance with the Annual Accounts and consolidated Annual Accounts Act, including International Financial Reporting Standard No. 9 ‘Financial instruments’ or those taxpayers who, on the basis of Article 13 of the Annual Report and consolidated Annual Accounts Act, choose to measure and reflect certain items of financial statements in accordance with international financial reporting standards. Given that the amendments to the draft law are reducing administrative burdens, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission supported them and also asked Members of the Saeima to support the adoption of the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U133	Thank you. Thus, Members have not applied for a legislative debate on the draft law. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Corporate Income Tax Law”! Please vote mode! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U134	The deadline for submission of tenders shall be 25 January 2022.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U135	So there are no other proposals. The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading shall be 25 January this year. Thank you. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Electricity Tax, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Jānis Cielēns.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U136	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, On 11 January, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission reviewed and prepared for consideration at the Saeima’s sitting the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electricity Tax” (No. 1284/Lp13) at first reading. The draft law provides for amendments to the law in order to eliminate legal uncertainty, do not create misunderstandings for electricity tax payers. As of 1 January 2017, in accordance with the amendments made to Article 6 of the Electricity Tax Act, the exemptions from the electricity tax were abolished for electricity. However, in 2020 it was found that electricity producers continued to apply the electricity tax exemption for electricity used to ensure the electricity production process on the basis of the derogation provided for in Section 7(5) of the Electricity Tax Law. In practice, it is usually necessary to stop the electricity generation process in order to carry out technical prevention of generation facilities. After completion of the relevant operation, the electricity producer needs about 10 to 15 megawatt hours of electricity for the start-up of the power generation facilities. Some operators use their own electricity to start their production facilities, while other operators (e.g. cogeneration) use the electricity purchased from the total grid to start the production process. In view of the above, in order to avoid legal uncertainty and to avoid misunderstandings for electricity taxable persons, as well as to ensure that the provisions of Directive 2003/96/EC are correctly transposed into national legislation, the draft law provides, first, for the addition of Article 6 of the law by a new provision providing for the exemption of electricity produced and consumed by the producer itself in order to ensure the electricity production process. The electricity tax exemption will apply only to electricity that will be used specifically for the start-up of the electricity generation process. Secondly, to put forward the fifth paragraph of Article 7 of the Law in a new version, in order to clarify the exceptions in which the taxpayer does not pay the electricity tax. Thirdly, to clarify the second paragraph of Section 9 of the Law, which provides for liability of the entities specified by the law for violations, by stating that in the Republic of Latvia it is prohibited to use electricity without paying tax, except in the cases specified in this Law. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has unanimously supported the draft law. On behalf of the Commission, I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U137	Thank you. Members have not applied in the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electric Power Tax”! Please vote mode! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U138	The deadline for submitting proposals - two weeks - is 3 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U139	The deadline for submitting proposals is therefore 3 February this year. Thank you. The next sittings on the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on Personal Income Tax”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Reinis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U140	Dear President, Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Personal Income Tax”” (No. 1261/Lp13). The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined these draft laws at first reading. What is stipulated by the “Amendment to the Law on Personal Income Tax”? In particular, it follows from the Law on the Termination of Forced Divided Property in the Privatised Apartment Houses, adopted by the Saeima on 25 November 2021, which enters into force on 1 January 2023. The Law on the Termination of Forced Divided Property in Privatised Apartment Houses sets out the procedure for the termination of the Forced Divided Property in which a residential house and a plot of land are located. The use of the right of disposal in accordance with the procedure laid down by this Law allows owners of apartment apartments to acquire the land to be disposed of, and the use of the right of disposal will not require the consent of the owner of the land to be disposed of. On the other hand, Section 23, Paragraph 7 of the Law on the Termination of the Divided Property in Privatised Apartment Houses states that the special procedure of personal income tax specified in the Law on Personal Income Tax shall be applied to income from the disposal of the land which is disposed of in accordance with this Law. Paragraph 8, third paragraph, point 11 of this Law provides that income of a natural person for which tax is due is to be added to income from the disposal of immovable property. The first paragraph of Section 9 of the Law “On Personal Income Tax” lists the types of income of natural persons that are not included in annual taxable income and are not subject to personal income tax. In the said inventory, inter alia, the income from immovable property disposed of in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Law on the transfer of real estate necessary for the needs of the Company shall be provided for, where the said property is in the property of the payer for more than 60 months. Taking into account that the sale price specified in Article 7 of the Law on the Elimination of Forced Divided Property in Privatised Apartment Houses will be received by its owner, who is to be considered an equitable consideration in the context of Article 105 of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia, the draft law provides for the addition of the first paragraph of Section 9 of the Law “On Personal Income Tax” with a norm which is analogous to the norm included in point 3.4.1 of paragraph 1 of Article 9 of the Law “On Personal Income Tax”, namely, establishing that the annual income taxable income is not included and does not tax income from the plot of land to be disposed of in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Law on the Termination of Forced Divided Property in a Privatised Apartment Houses, if the said land parcel is in the property of the payer for more than 60 months. Then this is the essence. The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has examined and supported these draft laws at first reading, thus supporting this principle that the land to be disposed of will not be subject to additional tax. I also ask the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U141	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U142	Hello, colleagues! The political group WELCOMES about this “Amendment to the Law on Personal Income Tax” will refrain from... This will be a very important but, to a large extent, a symbolic step on our part. Of course, looking at this amendment to the law on the legal side, as if everything is fine, in particular, the Constitution is in order. This was also underlined by the rapporteur for this draft law. But is everything right here from the point of view of social justice? As has already been explained, this is an additional law to the basic law that we voted on in November - forced the law on the termination of the split property in the privatised apartment houses. The order that was loudly protested against because we considered this law to be hasty, we still see it in a situation where the country has frozen the cadastral value of real estate and land, in a situation where the population is not clear about the price of buildings or land during the election year, it is not clear at what cost they will be able to buy the land under their apartment house by 2023. Despite all our arguments, the Saeima decided to vote in favour of the Law on the Termination of Forced Divided Property in Privatised Apartment Houses. Now it's clear... and some characters in this story do not hide the joy of who was accepted this law in the manner in which it was accepted. I would remind you that under this law, people will have to pay 100 percent of the cadastral value of the land. First of all, I would remind you that according to independent valuation statistics, today the market value, the market price, for these countries, is about 30 per cent of their cadastral value, but the Saeima voted that citizens would have to separate 100 per cent of this cadastral value from their pocket. I will reveal another secret that, at first, landowners wanted not to receive 100 percent of the land’s cadastral value as a ransom, but 118 percent. And it is this amendment that you will now vote on that that is part of its idea of getting as much as possible from the landowners' intention and hope... extortion from this situation, which was created by the state itself in the early 1990s and then by a number of decisions continued to make this business... Now it is a business that is not hidden by the biggest players in this market sector either. The state made it very, very profitable and beneficial... the Constitutional Court, which examined one of the issues in dispute... the issue of shared property. The Constitutional Court and some judges of the Constitutional Court had also pointed to it. The only problem... which helped to address however the issue of forced rental (and thanks to the Saeima's adoption last year of another law providing for the start of a real forced lease reform on 1 January this year, replacing it with a legal regime for land use, which is, by nature, a servitude)... Only this second law balanced, in a certain way, the current injustice of the law on the termination of forced divided property in the privatised multi-apartment buildings. Once again: we want to release landowners, who own a specific plot of land, from the income of the people... contributions. What are we doing in this way? We are increasing the income of these people. Read, please, carefully annotation of this bill. It is also written there that this draft law is favourable to landowners. Thank you for your words. But the first sentence of the second section of the annotation indicates that this bill affects more than 100,000 apartment owners. According to all estimates, these are the interests of up to 300,000 Latvians. Does this bill in any way improve the material situation of these people, respect for their interests? No, no. The next draft law seems to be doing something for them, saying: no, we're focusing on the fact that... if even the land owner has real estate tax debts, it will not prevent re-registration of the land to be bought out in the name of the owners of the apartments. But, of course, the material side of these apartment owners will not improve the second draft law either. Once again, from a legal point of view, everything is fine, because the same analogy is applied here with those plots of land that are bought out, for example, in the public interest of the state or the municipality. In this case, it would also be all right if the primary interests of this society were already taken into account in the basic law - I would force the divided property in the privatised apartment houses in the law of termination. Due to the fact that the law of termination of forced-divided property in privatised apartment houses is based on the continuation of gross injustice, the Social Democratic Party Group cannot vote in favour of such a draft law. If we were 'no' to the basic law, then we will refrain from this accompanying document, given that there is still a constituencies here... And our vote will be symbolic. We support the owners of the apartments, because everything was already compensated for by the land owners over these long years, when the owners of the apartments paid forced rent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U143	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U144	Very respectful head of the Saeima sitting! Dear colleagues, I am referring in particular to those colleagues who have been very active in all debates in recent days on how better to compensate Latvian citizens for the rapid rise in electricity, gas and other energy prices. I am referring in particular to those colleagues who have criticised so much the proposal to reduce the rate of value added tax for everyone, of course, on the grounds that, in that case, the people who have private homes with swimming pools will benefit most. Well, here, colleagues, somehow today, and also at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) where this draft law has been examined, you remain silent, even though this draft law offers the release of income from personal income tax to landowners, which they will gain from the forced resolution of this issue of shared property. So, again. After the previous arrangement, these landowners were subject to personal income tax when receiving payments from residents of apartment houses for their land, so to say, forced leases. Now, with the essence of these cadastral values... value, that is, this full... close to the market price, the government says that landowners should be exempted from personal income tax. You, my colleague, don't you think that's weird? How can it be said for days that it is not acceptable to give private owners the share they will gain from VAT reduction energy, and then, with one broad gesture, to give several thousands of landowners, who are certainly not the poorest part of our society... we do not even know how much money is being exempted from personal income tax? If you look at the annotation of the draft law, you will see that this draft law states that it does not have a direct impact on state and municipal budgets. It's lying. It's disinformation and lying. Of course, this has an impact. And the Ministry of Finance has not even calculated this impact. This argument does not even say how large this gift is for landowners. Don't you feel ashamed, colleagues? I appeal to those colleagues who have spoken so loud about social justice, about the need for modern, just, intelligent... and who apparently will now vote in favour of this bill, after some coalition agreement. Don't you feel ashamed? Isn't that - in the mildest case - a huge duality? Perhaps, however, you should be interested in the size of the gift to landowners included in this bill. I call for no support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U145	The floor in the debate for Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U146	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this gift has its own price, and it is named in the law on forced lease termination. It is even preliminary, but it has been mentioned that this project will cost "happy" buyers from EUR 170 to 250 million. This is the amount from which we want to release the “happy” sellers... tax. It's very easy to calculate how much it costs. That's the point one. Two points. Here are the 60 months. Most activities in this field have taken place long enough. Naturally, they continue, but this market has already been divided and redistributed. Consequently, the absolute majority of landowners are subject to this requirement. And the third. Indeed, as has already been said today, landowners - the vast majority, not all, naturally, because, like any business, there are successful and also failed workers - have, in principle, recovered all their investments, even the recently introduced payment of real estate tax on the part of the landowner. Thus, the next draft law is not to a certain extent affecting buyers, buyers, but sellers, because it was they who incurred tax debts for unpaid taxes. Indeed, this draft law is very, I would say, unsocial and also not very well thought out. After all, it will not stimulate or contribute to solving the problem itself. I call for this draft law not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U147	I closed the debate. Mr. Znotins, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U148	Colleagues, on behalf of the Commission, I can only add that representatives of the Ministry of Finance were present. They confirmed that this draft law has been created by harmonising the views of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice, and the aim, as some colleagues have already said in the debate, is to promote the elimination of forced divided property. This proposed instrument is one that helps the process to be carried out. I therefore call on the Commission to support this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U149	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Personal Income Tax” at first reading! Please vote mode! For - 55, for - 5, for - 17. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U150	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading shall be 3 February of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U151	Consequently, the deadline for the second reading of the proposals is 3 February this year. Thank you. Next - draft law “Amendment to Law “On Real Estate Tax”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Reinis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U152	Colleagues, we work with the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Real Estate Tax” (No. 1262/Lp13). This draft law is also related to the law on the termination of forced split property in the privatised apartment houses adopted on 25 November 2021. What, then, do these specific amendments provide? The fourth part of Section 21 of the Law on the Termination of Forced Divided Property in Privatised Apartment Houses provides that by strengthening ownership rights of owners of apartments in the land register to the land disposed of, special procedure established by Law “On Real Estate Tax” regarding registration of change of ownership of immovable property in the land register is applied. In order to contribute to the achievement of the objective of the law, enshrined in Section 2(1) of the Law on the Termination of Divided Property in Privatised Apartment Houses – to ensure the possibility to terminate forced divided property and to establish a unified real estate within the meaning of Section 968 of the Civil Law and to ensure that the rights of the owners of apartments are not hindered by the strengthening of ownership of the land register to the seized land, in the case of a debt debt of immovable property of the owner of the forced divided property, the draft law provides for the addition of the fourth paragraph of Section 9 of the Law on the Tax on Real Estate by establishing that the third paragraph of the said Article is not applied if the land is disposed under the Law on the Termination of Forced Divided Property in the Privatised Apartments Houses. The draft law shall enter into force at the same time as the Law on the Termination of Forced Divided Property in Privatised Apartment Houses on 1 January 2023. In other words, this law provides that these owners of apartments and possible... if you're home too... The owner of the land has debts, it is also possible to do so, and the municipality has every right to bring the tax debtor immediately to court and to recover the tax debt in favour of the municipality – both parties obtain. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined this draft law at first reading, supported and calls on the Saeima to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U153	We launched a debate on the draft law. The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U154	Let us continue the debate on the second draft law accompanying the law on the liquidation of shared property, which, as I have already mentioned, continues the gross injustices that were allowed in the early 1990s in relation to the residents of apartment houses, where the land was returned to the old owners and which in several cases was then bought from the new workers who hoped to carry out a profitable business on this land. Here we go! This second bill... If the first draft really freed landowners who would get this charge from the population from taxes... from personal income tax... had a dispute about how likely the budget would be lost in this case. Such a minimum estimate could range from EUR 35 to 42 million, which means that the tax not paid on the income that could be generated by the land owners had the land been sold for the existing cadastral value, i.e. the cadastral value currently in existence. I would remind you that we do not yet know what the cadastral values of the land will be when this option, which is allowed by the law on the liquidation of shared property, enters into force. It will be 2023. This Law on Real Estate Tax means, in essence, that the owner of the land will receive money from the owners of the apartments and will then be able to pay the State for his potential debt on Real Estate Tax. I would also like to correct the rapporteur, Mr Znotiņš, for having in some way linked the fact that from the beginning he will re-register to new owners and then the municipality will be able to refer the landowner to court in order to collect this debt for real estate tax. I would like to point out that this possibility is open to the municipality, whether it changes the land owner, since, as soon as this debt is formed, there is also a legal right to refer to the court and to recover this debt from the landowners in any other way. It is simply in this case - with this amendment - that we allow the landowner to settle with the state and the municipality when he receives an appropriate payment from the owners of the apartments. I would also like to say that 14. The family (no evidence to the contrary) will continue to fight against the consequences of forced rental. This fight will also be partly linked to the new cadastral values, the methodology for establishing the cadastral value of land. And this will be a very serious and complex work, where it will be necessary to balance the interests of owners and the principles of social responsibility and social justice, because in the case of shared property and forced rental, it is this imbalance that led to both mass protests and years of struggle for the interests of owners of apartments to be respected by the state. Let me repeat: thank you, Saeima, for the implementation - at last! - the reform and these words "forced rental" are already in history. Waiting for the transition period - 2022, and everyone - absolutely everyone! - the cases of shared property will relate only to one figure, i.e. to the payment of four percentage points. I would like to take this opportunity to say... appeal also to citizens - without rushing into a decision on the redemption of this land (and again because the cadastral value has not been determined) and now be very, very careful, because we already have information that landowners are ignoring the law or misinterpreting it, that is to say, some owners of apartments have already received invoices from landowners for the first quarter of this year... this law contains an article on the fact that the minimum payment is EUR 50, it applies to the entire house, but landowners interpret that EUR 50 as the minimum payment from each apartment. This is not the case, and for our part we will do our utmost to inform apartment owners about their rights and to prevent arbitrary interpretation of the law and law by landowners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U155	I closed the debate. Mr. Znotins, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U156	Colleagues, I can only remind you that this draft law was supported by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission and asked the Saeima to support it at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U157	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Real Estate Tax”! Please vote mode! For -62, for -1, for -14. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U158	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 15 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U159	No other proposals have been received. The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 15 March this year. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the Animal Protection Act, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Gatis Zamurs. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U160	Hello, head of the Saeima sitting! Hello, colleagues! In the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, we have examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Animal Protection” submitted by Members Bauman, Mednes, Rukšāne-Ščipčinskas, Leieniņa, Dūrīša, Lochmelė, Taukara, Petravičas, Ribēna, Papules and Agešin (No. 1151/Lp13). The purpose of the amendments is to prohibit the rearing and keeping of livestock where the sole or main purpose of the rearing and keeping is the production of fur. The proposed date of entry into force of the law is 1 January 2026. The applicants supported these amendments with several arguments: firstly, the unethical nature of this business, which exposes animals to continuous violence; secondly, opinion studies show that more than 60 percent of Latvians do not support the breeding and killing of animals for fur production. The applicants have indicated the amount of business pollution and other arguments. The Commission supported this draft law with nine Members voting in favour and three abstentions. I therefore ask the Saeima to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U161	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Krista Bauman.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U162	Dear President, Dear colleagues and colleagues! Everyone who looks at us and listens to us! When I asked colleagues last autumn to sign a proposal to ban fur farming in Latvia, many told me: “You will not get anything. Such an idea was rejected by the Saeima several years ago." But we succeeded because society has changed during this time and the attitude of politicians has also changed. I would like to thank all my colleagues for their support. I would also like to thank the society Animal Freedom and other public organizations, which have been working tirelessly over many years to draw attention to the way fur animals are raised in Latvia and the impact this business has on the environment. Your work is a result, and it was also welcomed by the members of the Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy at last week's meeting. Thank you also to the media that illuminated the shadows of this business and showed them to all Latvia. Raising and killing animals for fur is an unethical, cruel and disappearing form of business that is no longer justified today. This has already been completely banned in 18 European countries. Over the last year, laws on its ban have been passed or launched in the parliaments of France, Italy and our neighbours - Estonia and Lithuania. Dear colleagues, The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy strongly supported the draft law... with an invitation to agree, in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture, an appropriate and reasonable transitional period for the cessation of this business. Thank you to the chairman and Members of the Commission. I also call on the Saeima to support it at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U163	We are continuing the debate. The name of Member Ramona Petraviča.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U164	Dear Chair of the sitting and honourable colleagues. Keeping animals in cages where they are only able to turn around and do their natural needs there, in conditions where they are consistently exposed to stress and diseases, including Covid-19, so they try to kill each other, already intuitively cause fat. I have so far heard no argument about such treatment of animals that would not be restricted to economic gains that do not even exist, so I firmly believe that this sector should be banned. In addition to the painful reality, there are three reasons to support these amendments to the law. Firstly, the public's position. A survey carried out in June 2021 clearly indicated the opinion of the majority of society, or 63 percent, against fur farming. 40,000 people have signed up to it, more than 50 non-governmental organisations have expressed their support. With such support, the reasons, although clearly obvious, do not even matter to this opinion, because the Saeima, as a direct representative of the Latvian people, must comply with this requirement. The inability or refusal of a disrespectant to do so would be a gross violation of conspiracy and would lead to disbelief on the Saeima, its ability to make responsible decisions - even seeing physical suffering. Secondly. Raising of fur is not possible without violation of animal rights. Difference in the rearing of fur animals from the common... Livestock farming exists because fur animals have been kept in captivity for a much smaller period - about 100 years. A selection to adapt them to these circumstances and to alleviate suffering cannot take place in such a short time, and growers have never tried to do so. The only historical selection has been made to improve the fur. Here, too, a couple examples. Water kills in gas chambers where it takes 20 minutes! Their daily stress levels are comparable to human hunger. If people were to be kept in proportion to the size of the cages, the size of the cages would be less than a square metre. And, by the way, that includes the best practice of the moment. It is precisely for these reasons that increased regulation or restriction would not lead to any change. If the coalition plan is this way, it takes a weak position and... is destined for failure. Thirdly. Non-profitability and opacity of the sector. The contribution made by companies in this sector to the economy is negligible. The amount of tax paid is the same. Foreigners own four times more farm capital, which also accounts for most of the turnover. The beneficiaries are located in Western European countries, such as the Netherlands, where this sector is banned. Consequently, these companies are mainly created solely for the escape of foreign investors from the domestic law. At a time when a country is not even legally able to protect the rights of animals to live in a favourable environment and there is a clear negative impact of the sector on animals, society and nature, there should be no other choice than a full ban on the sector. I call for support for the amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U165	Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U166	Dear President, Dear colleagues, As one of the drafters of this law, I too have the satisfaction that we are at last... the third... at reading and for this discussion - for a long, long-term discussion - once, let us not put a point, then put at least one good comma. Of course, there is the whole of Europe... and also to ensure that such sufferings do not stimulate the consumption or demand of various products of animal skin products by imported fur or in this way. This would be the next step that we should talk about in a qualitative and meaningful way, but it is a satisfaction that we in Latvia once put an end to this long discussion, which has been in our society for many years. We are talking about the treatment of life, in this case the treatment of animals... For what purpose we keep and kill this animal. And, after all, if a gentleman wants his lady a fur, there's all the opportunities, nothing is forbidden - there's a chance to become a hunter. Try to hunt so much to really... to achieve, but at the same time, we retain the possibility for an animal to live in free nature and, as a consequence, to increase its population when necessary. But that must, in any case, be... if we're also talking about some extra hunting species... be strictly and clearly controlled. But in any case, this does not prevent us from talking about the traditions of our ancestors that existed in our land decades or centuries ago. However, on this issue of fur farming to kill them only for beauty, I think in the 21st century - and we can say so safely - we have put a stop to it. There is still much work to be done at the world level, at the European level, but Latvia will have completed its domestic work - one large domestic work - with the adoption of this law at final reading. So thanking colleagues and calling for a vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U167	Name to Member Viesturs Liepkalne.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U168	Hello, honourable leader of the Saeima sitting! Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, The audiences and audiences of the Saeima sitting! In this parliamentary term, I only work for a short time, and this is the first debate I have to take part in, so let me start with a short personal story about the importance of this law and... Personality. I remember very well the year 2013 when the Organisation Animal Freedom in the public space began to organise first aid campaigns for the protection of fur animals. It was a time when my career in politics was not mindful of me, but I well remember that at that time I thought to myself - if I had... represented... in Parliament, I would definitely support this initiative. I can say that this initiative was, in a way, the basis for greater involvement in political processes. Seven years have passed, and today I have the opportunity to influence this process as well. At the time, it seemed to me that respectful treatment of any living being was our duty as a contemporary and development-oriented society. This argument was also used 22 years ago - colleagues, 22 years ago! - in the United Kingdom Parliament, when it voted in favour of a ban on the rearing of fur animals. At the time, it set an example for the other European countries, which soon began to follow each other. Now in at least 16 European countries, this ban is in force, and every year this number continues to rise. The methods used in the fur farming industry, animal living conditions, killing methods and the treatment of fur animals as a source of profit - there is no ethical basis for this. However, if we remove this emotional and ethical side, which is far from the least important side, then the economic issues are also quite clearly marked by an on-going phase. The importance of stockpiling in the Latvian economy has decreased, becoming a unprofitable sector with a relatively small number of employees and the amount of taxes paid. It is a sector with a high turnover of workers and poor working conditions, and that was also the case seven years ago. Similarly, the withdrawal of world fashion brands from fur and the views of creditors on the requirement to ensure sustainable and socially responsible farming show that the current crisis in fur breeding may not be temporary. Let us be honest: some kind of fur in the 21st century! At a time when in the world your victory march is made... a technological breakthrough in the processing of materials that is able to offer much better, more ethical and environment-friendly alternatives. The opinions heard by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy have also been pragmatic and to the message of understanding by both ministries and animal rights protection organisations. It is a great step forward, both for us as a society and for Parliament, to be able to speak on sensitive topics without unnecessary emotions. This draft law is already supported by 64 percent of the Latvian population, and this number is continuing to increase. This is not just a single draft of political ideology. I believe that this is the time when we, the Saeima, are able to be united in the adoption of one important and important draft law. Perhaps forgive my political naivety, but we owe it to society - to be united. I call on my fellow Members to support this draft law at first reading, thus following the example of a number of European and other countries in the world in good time, and to ban the rearing of fur animals. In future meetings of the Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, we will still discuss transition periods and other details, but one thing is clear: the fur should remain in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U169	Name of Member Dace Rukšāne-Šchipčinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U170	Hello, honourable leader of the Saeima sitting! Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues. Sitting viewers and listeners! I call on you to support the amendments to the Animal Protection Law, which prohibit the rearing and keeping of animals, where the sole or main purpose of rearing or keeping animals is the production of fur, that is to say, I call for an end to the rearing of fur animals in Latvia. Raising beasts to fur is neither ethical nor human, nor modern, and finally, as a business practice, this practice does not bring any economic resistance. The entire progressive world is rapidly renouncing this cruel and unimaginable cruel industry, which serves to satisfy the luxury desires of small parts of society, and I am delighted that we are following these trends. I am very pleased that the draft law had been supported by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy before the first reading, and I very much hope that the draft law has progressed quickly enough. Thank you very much to the Animal Freedom Society for your educational work and activeness. You are weighed, practically and purpose-oriented, and that makes me very happy. At the same time, I would like to stress that these are not the only amendments to the Animal Protection Act that this Saeima has received. It is equally important to continue working to reduce the cruel treatment of animals and to strengthen the capacity of the local police and the Food and Veterinary Service to recognise and prevent such cases in good time. Once again, I call on you to support both this draft law and other amendments that will promote the protection and welfare of animals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U171	The name is Sandy Riekstin.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U172	Hello, colleagues! Like the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, I will, of course, support this draft law at the Saeima sitting, but as colleagues from Development/Par! I would like, however, to note this to my colleagues. Both within the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission and today’s Saeima meeting, speaking about this draft law, colleagues from “Development/About!” calls for many and various such emotional arguments, but one argument stands out the most - for an unethical business. For an unethical or ethical business, we could debate many, long and dictated at the Saeima, but I would like to invite colleagues from "Development/About!" all the same arguments that you "played" in the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, as well as in today's parliamentary session, have been moved to draft laws that are about restricting gambling. If you're talking about ethical business. I also call on you to send all these arguments to your Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, who has gone through your public space and has expressed his support for this draft law, because otherwise, colleagues, all I can conclude is that you are two-sided and that animals, more precisely, boats, are more concerned than people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U173	Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U174	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Thank you to all the previous debaters who quite broadly outlined the substance of this draft law. I, too, would like to express my position on this issue and, of course, my position is supportive... conceptually for the main purpose, spirit of the draft law. We understand that rarely anyone wants to buy a piece of clothing or an accessory, realizing that he also pays for deprived lives. What's more, we understand... Also in these discussions... Also in society as a whole, the use of many fur becomes unacceptable, knowing that it is a kind of luxury product, the object of luxury, the demonstration of wealth, rather than the need - like clothes that warm up - on the contrary. Its negative connotation under these conditions is exactly how to highlight... This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, It is clear that 85 percent of all fur trades come from fur farms today. Most of the time, as a number of colleagues have listed here, a number of boats, foxes, shinchillas are grown in smaller amounts - raccoon dogs, rabbits and other animals. As colleagues have said here, in addition to ethical reasons, there are also the environment... and social reasons for putting an end to these sectors, let us say, because fur is not a natural, sustainable resource, their production is a highly polluting and energy-using process. Let's say, making a real fur requires at least four times more energy than making a synthetic fur. And if we criminalise cruel treatment of pets and wild animals in our societies, there is no justification for such practices in the industrial sector. After all, there is no such thing as people's right to be cruel. And looking ahead, a truly global approach to the elimination of this industry will be very important. As has already been mentioned, there are a number of countries in which it has been adopted which are planning to adopt it. Clearly, what is happening in the European Union is important to us, given that we have a free market, a movement of goods, a movement of goods. I think that with the draft law tabled and the definition of the restriction contained therein... as I understand, so that's the only or main reason is the extraction of fur... in that case, the rearing of fur animals shall be prohibited. So here I think it's... a wise man will be able to interpret it quite widely, because two are added - the only or the most important... And that's the main thing then is the subject of the dispute... and will leave a lot of room for speculation. Consequently, I believe that at second reading it is necessary to make quite a significant contribution to the development of the draft law. I think it's not rocket science... Identify clearly how the fur farming sector has so far... which animal species are cultivated, these species are clearly defined in the draft law as well - that the cultivation of these species in Latvia is prohibited for the production of fur.... listing all; if there is any new species, the law must be opened again... whether they are regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers... and shall be supplemented as appropriate. And the closing thing... What would I perhaps encourage that we... Yes, well, we ban the production of fur animals in Latvia, and at the same time we are very well aware that our store shelves will still be full of fur products because we import them. I might have had a more ambitious proposal in this bill, so that it is even more extensive... The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy should look at the fact that we prevent imports of such groups of goods in general in Latvia. Yes, many will say, ‘ What? ’ This or that will be the people who want to... travel to Lithuania and Estonia (Not clear.) ... Let's go. But at least there will be a clear position of our society, the state, on this issue - that we do not support such an industry. Ten-year transition period - yes, I think it is very appropriate for the entrepreneurs in the current sector to phase out this industry. So yes, I call on colleagues to support the draft law conceptually, but for the second reading really, as you say, not just on the "Urre, we have conceptually supported it", but to work on the details and nuances. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U175	The name of the Member, Mr. Miccherevski.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U176	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, I never more... since I was in the Saeima, I have not seen such a hot debate, and even such a dispute, which has given more support to this draft law. For me, maybe Sandy Riekstins took the words out of his mouth, but... Well, I would like to say in general that I support this project even more than all those who have spoken so far, and I call even more on everyone to support this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U177	Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U178	Hello, honourable chair and colleagues! I want to say that this draft law... The idea is very good, and even in the depths of the heart the will to support. But I will say right away that I will not support - unlike all the other speakers who are so, I would say, emotional and diverse... on the protection of animals. I, of course, look at the protection of animals both emotionally and as a farmer, as a really professional farmer who... I don't work with animals right now, of course, but... Well, so that you know: in order to get a farmer's education, however, it is more important to work with animals and also to know all the positive and negative sides of these animals' farming. And by putting it all together, I see that this proposal is very dual. I completely agree with both Sandy Riekstin and Maris Michelevskis, who are saying they will support. But, why is it two-to-one? If we're talking about fur, then it's unethical. If we're talking about meat, then it's ethical. And now think about what conditions are there for chickens whose meat and eggs you eat? I will answer - under good conditions, in accordance with European law; there is an appropriate cage area, everything is designed, yes. On the other hand, they are in prison, they do not see daylight, they cannot walk freely. Well, chicken or ood, or polar fox, they're all animals. There is no difference whether one is a bird or the other a mammals. They're animals. If the bird flies, he's free. If he walks on the ground like aisbe - a field isbe... She, the chicken, must be able to move freely and not sit in the cage. And what is this emotional side? At the moment you, all those who now defend... I don't know how many of you are vegetarians, but all of you are definitely not vegetarians... When you go to the canteen and beat the chicken in your belly without thinking that it has eaten food in the cage for the rest of your life and fed it like a piece of meat, it seems normal for you. I therefore think that this proposal is a very dubious one. We can, of course, also talk about other farm animals, such as pigs, sows. We are now in Europe and, of course, the conditions are much better: sows can move, sows have a certain area, they can walk, and piglets can walk freely. But do you know that for a very long time sows were trapped in such a narrow... Well, so wide, how many of them, in the fence, and they could just stand up, eat and fall asleep again? Until recently, it was thought that this would reduce the pressure on piglets. The sow actually... Well, there's nothing left of the animal... it is actually a living organism that has one purpose only - to give birth to piglets... as in the plant, in the production line. She was reseeded (Not heard.) ... She gave birth again, she stood up... could only walk freely for a while while... Those piglets were separated from them until the next calving. And then again she was trapped in a small area. Was that ethical? But at the moment you go and buy carbonates, everything's okay. And so I would like to say and remind all of you that animals both think and feel. And the animals have an emotional connection with their parents. The separation of the animal from the mother, as is the case, for example, in dairy farming... The milk is intended to be drunk not by us but by the tent. What is happening now? Imagine what it would be like in the case of man - to separate the child from the mother. We're all in shock - that's terrible. And yes, this emotional connection is breaking. But do you really think that animals have less emotional ties? Many such experiments have been carried out in the world. For example, there has been a separation between the baby Primates and two other “mothers” - one with milk that is metallic, and the other one that is very similar to the real, fluffy, one with the real mother. And what does that primitive baby choose? He's going to it in the fluffy, he's got an emotional connection. And so if someone thinks that animals don't feel anything and that what you're deciding here, it's good... This is not good because there are still many species that we use, which we eat. And we pretend it's okay. I would therefore like to say that the draft law is completely political, it is economically unjustified. That is, if we adopt such a law, first of all, such a ban must be adopted throughout the European Union - throughout the European Union! - and secondly, a ban on the introduction and marketing of fur into the European Union should also be adopted. Then it would be with some result. At the moment, we will ban our industry from working in Latvia, but here in our neighbours, Lithuania, there are dozens of companies that will produce fur, and our people who want it will buy it. I completely agree with Rihards Kolas - then we prohibit imports into Latvia, we prohibit trade... I do not know how to deal with the common European market in that case, because we have a free market. But if we in Latvia accept a ban on the introduction and marketing of fur, including fur, including all that is of these fur, then the law has a different meaning. If we just want to destroy a sector that, by the way, pays taxes in the Latvian budget, then it has no meaning. I would remind you once again that you, all those big speakers, do not understand anything from animals at all, from the way in which agricultural production takes place, from how much of the animals are still suffering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U179	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U180	Colleagues! I believe - unlike many of the previous speakers - that the draft law on the Animal Protection Act, which is currently under consideration, is a striking example of the beginning of a dance - a pre-election dance by the Saeima's "modern" Members, whose aim is, in fact, not to care for animals and not for the protection of the animals in question, but to deceive voters, to suffocate voters with beautiful words, with thoughtful emotional speeches, which are very, very far away from real life. Why do I think so? Because for some reason none of those who support these amendments to the Animal Protection Law today is interested that this year the Latvian Hunters' Association called for 40 lynx to be hunted. Lucis is an animal living in the open, which is a rare animal, and very many environmental societies and organisations are strongly opposed to lynx hunting. Why do ladies and gentlemen, who now declared themselves nature defenders and animals, remain silent about this? Why don't none of them argue for a lynx hunting ban? At the same time, several nature protection societies also express concerns about wolves hunts, express and object to the wolves population, say, narrowing as a result of hunts and the methodology currently used for hunting. I am interested in why nature guards do not say anything about the year of “Riga Forests” – without plan and without purpose – deer garden, which was publicly disclosed in the “De Facto” programme on 9 January this year. Where are you, where have you been, dear nature guards and animal defenders? Are you just setting up your children - without a competition - in the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development? This is the only achievement that is, in fact, also the result of your work, colleagues from "Development/About!" Is that so? That's how you protect the animals?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And now you're telling... beautiful talk about how important it is for you to destroy one relevant sector in the economy. People working in public administration are looking at numbers, research and learning only to speak beautifully, but do not mean anything from business, now it is justified that job losses will not have any particular negative impact on the economy. What are you talking about?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You don't care about the people. The government has been late in adopting measures relating to the prevalence of Covid-19. People, also rich people... significantly reduced the level of welfare of the population at the very beginning of the pandemic; it was not until then that appropriate measures were taken. You have rejected today the opposition's proposals on the reduction of value added tax, on the reduction of excise duty, which would ensure the competitiveness of the economy. You have only now - now, at the end of January, after an increase in prices - thought about the granting of benefits to households at a critical level, to people at risk of poverty. And you are now telling us that you really care about animal rights and their protection? You don't care about defending the interests of the citizens. You do not care about the defence of your producers' rights. And now you're telling me you're sorry for the animal. Lie, lie and lie again! And false draft laws, false speeches I will not personally support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U181	Dear Members and honourable Members, It is time for another break at the Saeima sitting. So we will be able to continue the debate on this draft law after a break. Only registration of the presence of participants. It's been a success. So the sitting was suspended until 3.30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U182	Honourable Members! We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - draft law on amendments to the Animal Protection Law. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U183	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Continuing on with the specific draft law - Amendments to the Animal Protection Law - which we are now looking at at at first reading - has to be reflected to some extent in relation to those myths that are now present not only in society but also in Parliament - that the specific amendments... is actually an equation with livestock farming, with poultry farming, actually with keeping animals that are necessary for human consumption, in fact in human existence. And by no means, my fellow Members, we can't put it on the same shelf as a wild beast, which is intended as an extra or... Rotary. We live... It's 2022, we're seeing trends in this world and we're not going to mix things. We also saw what happened to the Saeima when the organisation Animal Freedom organised its own stock, but at the same time - in parallel - the discreditation of this stock - that we would not allow chickens to be kept in cages (eggs) or pigs to be kept (food). These are two completely different things. And also this animal that has been raised... Livestock farming for human consumption... obtained by-products that are leather products that are not discarded but are converted into different goods... They're not comparable things either... compared to a farm where we grow these animals to kill them to get some particular jewellery... In this case, if we are talking about fur and various products, which is a jewellery case in 2022... It's not a century ago... Once again, colleagues - if there is a wish - this amendment to the law does not rule out the possibility for us men to go hunting and hunt this animal if someone wants to collect enough to be able to give this fur to someone, but in any case it is not a commercial object; it is not that we hold thousands of animals and kill them to get some expensive jewellery on a regular basis. This is not a question of existence today. And to compare these two things - livestock and poultry, which are intended for human consumption, human, human, existence, - with wild animals, which are human extracts... These are two completely different things. And, of course, I still believe... I have full confidence that this is just a comma; that we will have a point when we do not actually stimulate the sale of such products from the wild animals, where the animals have been raised to kill them in order to obtain this jewellery for imports from Lithuania or from Belarus or from any other country; then we can say that we have put a point. But again, let's not mix two different things! And finally. Of course, with this long debate... I also have a second feeling what... Some colleagues also mentioned: if we had such a long and wide-ranging debate about... if, with the same interest, representatives of the coalition would also represent the interests of people, with whom we now represent the interests of animals, I would be very happy and proud of being 13. Member of the Saeima. I think we have somewhere to meet. Let us not put the interests of animals above the interests of the people, but let us also not set them against them if we talk about livestock farming, which is actually for people and from which we obtain meat that we consume in food, and about the wild animals from which we get extras. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call for real support for this particular draft law at first reading and for as short a time as possible... so that we do not have this long political, unnecessary debate and adopt this rule as self-evident, in line with 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U184	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U185	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I will say straight away that I will not call on you to vote in favour or against the ban on the vagaries. What surprises me in this debate, as well as some of the previous speakers, is its enormous activity, especially by the members of the coalition; its enormous interest in this draft law. Look back to 13. The Saeima for almost three years, I do not remember such activity at the debate on the draft state budget... There is a hot topic for society as a whole - the rise in energy prices, but there has been no debate in the Saeima about the price of energy. Colleagues, I do not believe that the debate is being debated when coalition Members vote 'no' to the submission of several opposition Members, to the referral of a number of draft laws to the commissions. It is not a debate when, sometimes, a coalition Member chooses to have a harsh deal against it. It is not a debate. It's a refusal to... for this debate. So, in general, I remember just two topics on which most Members of this ruling coalition are prepared to speak and to debate passionately. One of these is animal protection issues. And the other... As there will be a foreign debate next week, where Ukraine, Russia... I am ready to agree that most members of the coalition will gladly talk about international relations, diplomacy, war... and what else is there. Or 13. The Saeima has really become a Saeima where the debate on issues of importance to Latvian society does not really take place? Is it really going to happen in history 13? The Saeima was a term that mainly - at least on the part of the coalition, the ruling coalition - was interested in the protection of animals (all respect for the protection of animals!) and a report by the Minister for Foreign Affairs? And that's all. Colleagues! We just... Members of the Coalition... I am ready to make a covenant that most, perhaps 95 per cent, of the coalition Members did not even know or understand what they voted on when... you have just voted to remove, most likely, several tens of millions of euros from the public budget by exempting landowners from personal income tax. You have received your lists, your instructions on how you should vote; you are also voting. Colleagues, 13. The Saeima has not yet completed its mandate! There is still time - less than a year. I'm sure many 13. To Members of the Saeima, this parliamentary term is likely to be the last. And then it's too late. Colleagues, it is still time - less than a year - to draw your attention not only to the protection of animals, not only to the report by the Foreign Minister and to international relations... and Ukraine, and so on, but also those issues that are truly important for the people of Latvia. That would be my wish. Whether there's a hearing ear or not, the time will show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U186	Name to Member Ilmar Duritis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U187	Hello, very honourable Chairman of the Saeima! Dear Members and honourable Members! I, too, as a veterinarian, cannot fail to state my opinion on this draft law and, therefore, I would like to reflect very briefly and compactly on some of those who have spoken in the debate... Well, to the claims. I want to say that... and perhaps also to rebut what some Members have said. Animal welfare requirements - at least in our latitudes - every year... in fact, they are still being improved, and they are being discussed a lot. And thank you, indeed, also for the care of the European Union for this. And whether it really is all actually respected, is, of course, our own and also... It is the farmer's responsibility. But we really cannot, with Mr. Tatar's consent, make a sign of equality between the fact that we are raising animals that have been used for thousands of years to feed ourselves, our children... We are raising animals to feed, perhaps, the part of the world that is starving, whereas we are growing animals that are not really accustomed, that actually want to live in the forest and that are under stress in such a human environment. We grow these animals to simply get their fur, poison them and the rest of the body just throw away or feed other animals. In my opinion, this is no longer acceptable in society today. It's not really human. And, colleagues, if we can out of those billions of animals that we delete every day in the name of human existence, because of human existence... if we can even protect a small amount, i.e. not destroy it, then we do it! And it is this law that will permit it. What will allow the lives of millions of animals not to be destroyed. They just won't... There's nothing to destroy. And that seems to me to be a good contribution to such a ban. The fur is not a thing without which we could not do it. I call on you fellow Members to support this draft law and to move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U188	Thank you. I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U189	Thank you to your colleagues for this beautiful debate. They were significantly more impressive than they were in the Commission. However, I would remind you that the Commission supported these amendments. And I call on the Saeima to support it at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U190	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on animal protection law! Please, let's vote! For -69, against -4, refraining from -1. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U191	The deadline for submitting proposals is 21 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U192	There are no other proposals regarding the deadline, so the deadline for the proposals is 21 February this year. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme or measures coming under this item, and any other expenditure on technical and administrative assistance not involving public authority tasks outsourced by the Commission under ad hoc service contracts. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhena‐Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U193	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! The budget and financial (tax) commission examined the draft law on programme management for the European Union's Cohesion Policy objective "European territorial cooperation" (Interreg) 2021-2027 before the first reading. The aim of the law is to establish the effective, transparent and sound financial management of programmes in the Republic of Latvia in line with the European Union Cohesion Policy objective “European territorial cooperation” (Interreg) for the programming period 2021-2027, insofar as this is not provided for by the European Union legislation directly applicable. The draft law has been drawn up on the basis of the regulations of the European Parliament and the Council as well as in accordance with the task of the Cabinet of Ministers’ Protocol. The draft law was supported by the Commission and is being asked for urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U194	Thank you. Members have not applied to speak about urgency. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on programme management for the European Union's Cohesion Policy objective "European territorial cooperation" (Interreg) 2021-2027! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U195	Thank you very much for your support. And now I call for support to be given to the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U196	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on programme management for the European Union's Cohesion Policy objective "European territorial cooperation" (Interreg) 2021-2027! Please, let's vote! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U197	The deadline for the submission of proposals shall be 3 February of this year, and the session of the Saeima shall be 10 February of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U198	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 3 February this year. Meeting of the Saeima - 10 February this year. Draft Law “Law on Collective Financing Services”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Reinis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U199	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, We work with the draft Law on Collective Financing Services (No. 1233/Lp13). The draft law has been examined by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission and prepared for first reading. The draft law is designed to ensure the implementation of Regulation No. of the European Union. 2020/1503 application to Latvian legislation. What is this regulation about? At present, the challenge for the further development of the financial sector is the rapid technological development that can shift financial service providers from traditional service providers to new financial market service providers in the financial services sector, as well as allowing traditional financial service providers to introduce new innovative services. Collective financing can help ensure access to finance for small and medium-sized enterprises and improve the capital market. Collective financing has become a common practice in Europe. Such financing takes place through online platforms, which are usually financed by a large number of people or organisations, and attracts relatively small amounts of money in the form of loans or investment capital, including start-ups. In addition to providing an alternative source of funding, including venture capital, crowdfunding can offer other benefits to companies, i.e. to confirm the business idea, to provide entrepreneurs with access to a large number of people providing insights and information, and to be a marketing tool. This Regulation therefore proposes to establish a more favourable framework for the development of the financial products of the undertakings concerned. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined and supported the draft law for the first reading and is asking the Saeima to support it at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U200	Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law on collective financing services! Please, let's vote! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U201	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 3 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U202	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 3 February this year. Draft Act ‘Amendment to the Act of the Financial and Capital Market Commission’, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Reinis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U203	Colleagues! The Budget and Finance (tax) Commission has also examined the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law of the Financial and Capital Market Commission’ (No. 300/Lp13). This draft law was prepared at the same time as the draft law on co-financing services in order to ensure uniform terminology and regulation together with the introduction of new supervision of financial market segment and to ensure the establishment of the Cabinet of Ministers Order of 21 March 2017. 126 Task 4.4 of the plan approved for the Financial Sector Development Plan 2017-2019 (submission of the regulatory framework for the operation of mutual loan crowdfunding platforms for approval by the Cabinet of Ministers and the Saeima). The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission examined the draft law and unanimously supported the first reading. I ask the Saeima to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U204	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law of the Financial and Capital Markets Commission”! Please, let's vote! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U205	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 3 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U206	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 3 February this year. Draft Act Amending the Law on Value Added Tax (No. 1191/Lp13), second reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Jānis Cielēns.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U207	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission examined and prepared for consideration at the Saeima sitting the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” (No. 1191/Lp13). Four proposals were received for the second reading. 1. - That's Mr. Kaspars's proposal. Supplement Article 42 of the Act with the nineteenth paragraph as follows: ‘The reduced rate of duty of five percentage points applies to catering services provided by mass caterers, with the exception of those services or parts of services relating to alcoholic beverages.’ This proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U208	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U209	Good afternoon, honourable Members! In these two years... Let us say that this issue has been re-examined in three years' time, again and again, because it is very topical, and every businessman who represents the catering sector - I think also the beauty industry, the sport industry, the cultural sector - could turn to every Member, especially a coalition Member, and ask: are you developing a support plan to help these businesses in the future? As we can see, natural gas prices are rising, electricity prices are rising and heating prices are rising, food prices are rising, which we will also be talking about in the next proposal, and companies need financial resources to overcome not only the communion crisis, but also the energy crisis. But on top of all these crises, the illogical decisions taken by the government during these years are still being made. Looking back, even a few months ago, even a few years ago, we see that these restrictions would not have been necessary at all and business should not be limited. If we are talking about current restrictions (and I can talk about catering), it is illogical what they have been adopted. Somehow, for example, we take these 10 people who can make a private event. It sounds illogical from the Ministry of Economics that at a private event catering society... indoors... these people are allowed to use only the service - the rental of premises - but not the catering service. You can go to the cafe with your own food and can stay there. That's illogical. The company will be able to pay for the rental of premises, which will be able to pay for electricity? That is why we must ask the government: what support mechanisms are there? And if there are no support mechanisms, would it not be necessary to lighten these restrictions? Do you really need three meters, which was originally between the tables, then - two meters... at the table can sit four people. Just like you do with your coup. Are all these restrictions in favour of entrepreneurship? But, as we can see, the tax rates that an entrepreneur has to pay do not change. 21 per cent VAT still has to be paid, and the State Revenue Service has not abolished this tax refund. We offer, of course, extensions - extensions... which will have to be paid in the coming months or years. Entrepreneurs are currently hopeless, but they are not heard - and not only the government, but also the Members of the Saeima. For the time being, I have offered you a reduction in the tax rate by five percent, as also Lithuania has done. And successfully, it is obvious that entrepreneurs are left over the additional financial resources. We would not have to borrow these 100 or 200 million more that the government is actively doing, but such a measure would make it possible for businesses to retain additional financial resources... and would not need, as I said, to borrow. It is necessary to think about a number of steps forward, how such a tax reduction can help. And this has already been mentioned on several occasions: it would certainly allow the sector to be organised. As we know, there is, of course, a grey area in the catering sector where all taxes are not paid. That is the direction in which we should move. Of course, I understand that at the moment, it is not appropriate to cut five percent on the agenda if we are in such an energy crisis and the government cannot even cut the VAT rate on electricity, the rate on natural gas... where else entrepreneurs hope at this reduced rate. But I think there is certainly a need to work on this. The parliamentary elections are coming, and soon there will be a new song coming from the coalition, which they will sing, because the catering industry has also been actively promised these reduced five percent, but I find it hard to imagine what another disaster should be entering the sector so that we can still give this reduced - five percent - tax rate. I therefore call, Members, on us to examine the current situation and to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U210	Thank you. Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U211	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I fully support this proposal made and presented by our opposition colleagues, which by its very nature is very similar to what the Union of Greens/Farmers has previously made, as other opposition colleagues have also made in the past. And not because we would be in opposition or because it would be easy for us to submit a proposal that we should not be responsible for this. No, colleagues, we too have to answer for this. We also receive calls and letters from Latvian catering service providers, including not only from the Latvian Restaurant Society, but also from other small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, who employ people who currently have extreme electricity prices, who have stoves, who have vacuum cleaners, who have a lot of electrical equipment, who consume in principle... in relation to the total amount of invoices is very, very large. The bills for electricity and gas to be paid are huge, but the amount of... what these people are able to do, also taking into account all the historical constraints and the fact that this market has not yet returned is a strong, strong decline. We hear stories that not only the chefs, not just the guests, leave the country and go to other countries of the European Union, where there are other restrictions, but also the owners of catering establishments are going to harden their business, sell it and open up similar places to catering in other countries of the European Union. This policy has led to it. Colleagues, why is value added tax five percent? Such a reduced rate of value added tax is not only in one country, as Mr. Girgen said, we have received... We're all... you have all received a table that has been sent to us for VAT rates in the restaurant sector in the countries of the European Union, and we can see very well that in the vast majority of European Union countries currently there is a reduction in value added tax for mealers: in Luxembourg - from 17 to three percent, in Hungary - from 27 to five, in Romania - from 19 to five, in Austria - from 20 to five, in Germany - from 19 to five, in Poland - from 23 to eight, in the Netherlands... In fact, we can call the entire list. In the end, of course, there is Latvia, where nothing has been reduced. Colleagues, we are consciously going to leave a lot of people in our country. And not only the people who work in paid employment, but also employers. They will become employers and taxpayers in other countries. We hear these stories... Yes, we have also received information about what kind of shares Latvian catering providers may be planning to make. This is a step of despair. Not white tablecloths... They are actually driven out of the white economy... many - those who are still able to pay taxes - in the grey sector... on a grey tablecloth or a black tablecloth. They will not pay any taxes. Or they're just going to get out of this country. Colleagues, at this point it is... Well, talk. We met - our Group of the Union of Greens/Farmers... we responded and... hear these employers, taxpayers - it's not pain, simple pain... that they with cast irons and with cups come and dung at the Saeima. This is also prohibited, among other things, at the moment. Colleagues, meet up, listen up! And you will understand that this is a much more serious situation than you can hear from me right now. Look at these sector figures! The situation is really bad. Listen to these people, understand them, put in a table the costs they have for electricity, gas, other products, basic products, raw materials, how the costs have risen and how the turnover has fallen. And then you will understand. Plus - look at what is happening in other countries of the European Union. Interview a businessman, a restaurant owner, a catering man! Why has he closed his institution in Latvia, but opened it in another European Union country? What are the circumstances? And then you will understand... You will not feel any confidence that, a year later, when we correct this error, he will return. He will be involved, he will be all right, he will have no obligation to return to the country. Because we're... I think all of us, not just coalitions, but politicians in general... We are unable to provide them with decent conditions here so that they can exist, survive. Not to live, not to earn, but to survive, to wait for the times when the market is opening up again, when some human flows occur again, when they can work. Colleagues, this is very, very important. I really call for this proposal to be supported. If necessary... If you don't like the five-interest rate, maybe you want a six- or seven-interest rate, maybe a four-interest rate... it may be discussed by the Commission. But I call for this proposal to be supported and passed on to the Commission. Indeed, this moment is much more important than a year ago. Colleagues, we support this! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U212	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U213	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, But above all, however, and above all - all those Latvians who are listening to this Saeima sitting today! If you follow the agenda of this parliamentary sitting, as you see, it should not have been long before - the issue of animal protection has been over and most coalition Members have returned to their hibernation or to what they are dealing with when the debate in the Saeima can be called a debate when only a few members of the opposition... but when issues other than animal protection are discussed in the Saeima, which is not a foreign debate... That is, all Members of the Saeima, members of the coalition, have disappeared somewhere. You will not hear from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance today about how much such a step costs, or, in the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, this step is justified, with what reasoning and so on. You will also not hear today the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs who will not tell you how this proposal is to be seen from the development or perhaps even survival prospects of the relevant sector under the responsibility of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. You won't hear anything like that. But, as some have said before, fellow Member Edgars Tavars, other countries are rather aggressive to go ahead with such a tax reduction. From our point of view, the most important example is, of course, Poland, which has very sharply reduced VAT on food - it has already been reduced, it has been reduced even further. Why Poland? Because it is very likely that Poland could follow the example of Lithuania as well. Why? Because Lithuania is, of course, worried. As far as I understand, in the Lithuanian Parliament's speech not only about animal protection and foreign debates, Lithuania is concerned that if the value added tax on food in Poland is lower than in Lithuania, many Lithuanians could start to shop more actively in Poland, thus, of course, losing not only retail turnover but all the relevant taxes. For us, colleagues... By the way, it is during the last two years of the Kariņš government that we see - at least those of us who are worried about what is happening in the economy, those who look at what is happening, for example, with retail turnover, and see that over the last two years, the dynamics of our retail turnover, which, in fact, have been very correlated for many, many years - with almost one - with Lithuania and Estonia, went in the very opposite direction of the Kariņš governments in the last two years, with a sharp increase in retail turnover in Lithuania and Estonia, and, on the contrary, with a sharp decrease in Latvia. What are the reasons for this? Probably a few. Most likely, part of this is that our restrictions are less understandable than those in Lithuania and Estonia. As a result, people (also Latvian citizens make these statistics) buy not in Latvia, but in Lithuania and Estonia. It's not that far. Perhaps it's also because the business environment in Lithuania and Estonia is much better than in Latvia, and even those companies that actually do... actually sells, deals with retailing in Latvia, registers in Lithuania or Estonia, thus disappearing from Latvia's statistics, forming part of their statistics. It is not just money, colleagues, it is also budget revenue. But that, of course... I understand that it is not animal protection. It's not about Ukraine. There are boring real questions. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U214	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U215	In the Commission, with six Members voting in favour, five against and two abstentions, the proposal was not supported and I therefore call on the Commission to vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U216	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Member Ģürgen's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 35, for - 44, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U217	2. - also the proposal from Member Kaspars Gürgen. Add the 20th paragraph of Article 42 of the Act as follows: ‘The reduced rate of duty of five per cent shall apply to supplies of foodstuffs which are acid milk products without additives, milk, bread, fresh meat, fresh fish and eggs listed in the Annex to this Law.’ This proposal was also not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U218	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U219	Colleagues! We have arrived at proposal 2. When it comes to food prices, the first signal already appeared in summer 2021 that food prices will be the ones that will follow... price increases will follow the increase in electricity prices. At the moment, it has also appeared (only logically). If we compare December 2021 to December 2020, the price of potatoes has increased by 42 percent, the price of Greeks by 42 percent, the price of onions by 35 percent, the price of pears by 34 percent, and the price of wheat flour by 30 percent. And electricity - by 32 percent, natural gas - by 51 percent. It was a comparison of Decembers. Now, in January, the picture is even worse than in December, and this is, I would say, a signal from the party "Republic" to the coalition that they should have thought about it a long time ago, knowing that, with electricity prices, food prices will also rise. At present, we have not heard from the government any news about how Latvians could help to overcome the future price increase that is expected in the future. If we are talking about electricity, natural gas, heat, then, I assume, it is just a matter of a month or two months, when we will also talk about food prices. And it should certainly have been the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Welfare, the Ministry of Economics and, finally, the Ministry of Finance (which generally rejects everything) with a report on how we will help citizens in this situation. And I can very well compare what Vjačeslav Dombrovskis also spoke about Poland's good practice - a reduction in VAT on food... Now it's zero percent. As of 1 February, they introduce a zero interest rate, while Latvian citizens pay 21 per cent. Reading the news portals of Lithuania, we see that people are already expressing their opinion - they will certainly go to such a VAT policy in Poland to shop in Poland, because there will be much cheaper than in Lithuania. Poland has taken a step further, it has applied to natural gas... Of 23 percent, eight percent, as well as having cancelled... excise duties on electricity - from 23 to 5 per cent, for heating - from 23 to 8 per cent, for fuel - from 23 to 8 per cent. This is the good example that Wittenberg also spoke about, but, as always, it's his execution and PR... or its PR program... that he's usually leaving... how he supports caterers with five percent, how he supports citizens, how he supports trade on Christmas... But it's all... remain at these coalition meetings. It may be the fault of the Ministry of Finance, but this PR does not work. Real action is needed to help people save financial resources. And this is one of the ways we can help - cut to five percent. Of course, the most detailed and far-sighted, as Poland does - moving to zero interest rates, but I do not believe that the Saeima could make such a decision at the moment, but that is the direction... we will have to go early or late because, if we look at other countries, VAT for food in Greece is now 13 per cent, in Austria - 10 per cent, in Romania - nine, in the Netherlands - six, and there are countries where there is even a zero rate. In the Commission, we are, of course, talking about this actively, about the fact that the country would need to reduce VAT, because revenue in the state budget is only getting bigger and it should come to the public, but one of the arguments why Members also voted 'no' was that the Ministry of Agriculture has already been given the task of producing an information report. I do not want to lie, but it could be April, May or June, during that period, but it will be just a report, and further steps on the reduction of VAT would probably only be felt in a few months' time... later. Please could I bring together the time of the debate?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U220	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U221	Thank you. Therefore, I am very active now, of course, in addressing this representative party of the Ministry of Agriculture, the National Association... that I call on you to move this issue faster, because we, the people of Latvia, do not have time to wait for the summer when we just look at this information report, because the decision must be today. As I said, Poland has been implementing this since 1 February and it will not be long before Lithuania does the same. The residents of Latvia will definitely do the same as the people of Lithuania want at the moment - they travel across the border... where it's cheaper. I can also mention the same thing as Mr Wittenberg said: these water amusement parks, which are currently actively advertised by Estonian companies... and the residents of Latvia go to Estonia. However, its action to allow you to work for water parks or water amusement parks in Latvia does not follow, and it is only logical that Latvians go where it's cheaper. This is the economy, the finances that need to be calculated, and it needs to look at how it looks in the picture. It is not just that we simply reduce VAT or leave VAT... It has to be counted, but I see that in the long term we have to go along this road and people have to be allowed to buy these services and products at a reduced price. In my view, it would be like a zero-interest basket which would not be subject to VAT on a certain amount of services or would be subject to reduced VAT. If we are talking about electricity, why wouldn't we give citizens... determine even 50 kilowatts with zero-interest VAT? Why can we not impose reduced VAT on water supplies? That's the way... where we could go. And maybe think less about this borrowed money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U222	The name of Member Eric Pucen. We can't hear you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U223	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Hello, colleagues! This proposal has been made by Kaspars Girgens, a member of the ‘Republic’ party. We have talked about this proposal in the Saeima on several occasions, another time the debate has been hotter, but today we see colleagues from the position that should explain why this could not be done, not for some reason. The ‘Republic’ party has already pointed out in the budget debate the rapid rise in electricity prices, and we have already proposed these solutions, but the solutions from the government were only received now, after the New Year. And there are also big ambassadors... that not only electricity prices go to the air, but also food prices go up quickly and people's purchasing power is declining. We can walk through the shops... I know that I'm sure... Many Members may not know how much they paid and how butter they now pay, but people who need to feed their families look at them at their prices. If within a month the price of butter can rise by EUR - for one 200 grams of sachet - where is the Ministry of Economics looking? The purchasing power of people will be less and less. People will eat increasingly poor food because they will buy what they can afford. I call on my fellow Members to work on these solutions so that people do not have the only choice... not just at food prices... life in Latvia - they already feel that living elsewhere is cheaper. And we see that in social networks too, it is cheaper for people to go somewhere to relax rather than live in Latvia. We see what the United Kingdom has adopted. They are already beginning to think about how to get out of this crisis, reducing restrictions, and people see that there is a chance to live there. Well then we are predicting that, most likely, people from cities, regions will leave, our cities will be increasingly empty, taxpayers will be less and less, and then our wise Ministry of Finance with the Ministry of Economics will come: we should have some sort of people's return plan again. I think that the government must work more hard and the Saeima must work to make people here want to stay and people see the government and the Saeima think about them. As decision makers, we don't have to think about how to borrow money on the right, on the left, because it will have to be returned - and we... for both taxpayers and businesses, for all. That money will have to be returned to someone. Perhaps we should look first at tax policy in the country. We can't just raise, raise... There's going to be the next tax increases... land property tax. People will be driven into despair, and in the end they will leave this country. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call for support for this proposal by the 'Republic' - reduced VAT on food - and if there are any arguments why this cannot be done, I call on those in the Saeima's smart economists, who always speak here and who claim they cannot, to try and defend them. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U224	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U225	In the Commission, proposal 2 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U226	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Member Ģürgen's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 35, for - 44, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U227	3. - That's Mr. Kaspars's proposal. It provides for the addition of the transitional provisions to point 39: ‘The amendments to Article 42 of this Law, which provides for the addition of the nineteenth and twentyth paragraphs, shall enter into force on 1 January 2022.’ The proposal is not supported by the Commission. And, in my opinion, it cannot be voted because it relates to the first two proposals that have not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U228	It is true that the proposal cannot be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U229	4. - That's Mr. Kaspars's proposal. It provides for the addition of Annex 2 to the Act: ‘Food products subject to a reduced rate of duty of five per cent: 1. Drinking milk without additives, including sugar and other sweeteners, with a shelf-life of up to 10 days. Milk products without additives, including sugar and other sweeteners...; 3. Bread without additives; 4. Fresh or chilled meat...; 5. Chicken and quail eggs in shell.’ This proposal is not supported by the Commission either. It is not put to the vote because it is related to the unsupported proposal 2.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U230	The legal bureau considers this proposal to be a voteable one. And I call, however, for it to be voted in favour if Members wish to vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - Member Ģürgen's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 29, for - 47, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U231	All the proposals have been examined. The draft law was unanimously supported by the Commission. I therefore call on the Saeima, on behalf of the Commission, to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U232	Thank you. Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax (No. 1191/Lp13) at second reading! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U233	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is five days - 25 January this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U234	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 25 January this year. Draft law “Amendment to the law on the detention of detained persons”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Edwin Šnore.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U235	Hello, dear colleagues! In its meeting of 12 January this year, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption examined the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Detaining Persons” (No. 1260/Lp13). The Commission received three proposals for a second reading of the draft law. 1. - a editorial proposal by the Minister for the Interior, Golubeva. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U236	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U237	2. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Golubeva. It shall take effect on the date of its entry into force. This proposal is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U238	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U239	3. - a editorial proposal by the Minister for the Interior, Golubeva. This is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U240	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U241	I ask the Saeima to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U242	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the law on the detention of persons in custody” at second reading! Please, let's vote! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U243	The deadline for proposals is 27 January.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U244	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 27 January this year. On the agenda - reports by the Bureau on own-initiative proposals submitted. Dear colleagues, The Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications has submitted its own proposal – the draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application of 10 125 Latvian citizens “State-paid dental care for children in acute situations””. The procedure section is turned on. If a Member objects to the examination of this own-initiative proposal at this sitting, please apply. There is no objection. We will therefore begin to examine the proposed draft decision of the Saeima. On behalf of the commission responsible, namely the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications, Janina Jalinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U245	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues. On 14 December 2021 the Saeima received a collective application from 10 125 Latvian citizens “State-paid dental care for children in acute situations”. On January 12 of this year, the Board of Mandates, Ethics and Applications of the Saeima examined the collective application and also heard a representative of the initiative, who indicated that state-paid dentists are not available for children on holiday and during the night, therefore families have to use paid dental services in acute situations. Not all families are able to pay for these services, nor are they able to reach places where these services are available at night. The representative suggests ensuring the availability of dental specialists 24 hours a day in each region of Latvia or ensuring that the family is compensated for the costs incurred in full, if it is found that the situation has been acute. The representatives of the Ministry of Health, the National Health Service, as well as the Latvian Dental Association did not support the progress of the application, stressing the importance of prevention in dental care and the need to distinguish between life-threatening situations, when assistance must be provided immediately, from an acute situation which can initially be dealt with with with with with medicinal products. Having heard the invited representatives, the Committee on the Mandate, Ethics and Application of the Saeima decided to refer this Latvian citizens’ initiative to the Saeima’s Social and Labour Commission for further evaluation and, on the basis of the fourth and fifth paragraphs of Section 131.5 of the Saeima’s Rules of Procedure, prepared a draft decision “On the way forward of the 10,125 Latvian citizens’ collective application “State-paid dental care for children in acute situations”. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U246	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application of 10 125 Latvian citizens “State-paid dental care for children in acute situations””! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Decision adopted. And the draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application of 10 282 Latvian citizens “Let Members film in the Saeima””. Member Aldis Adamovičs on behalf of the commission of mandates, ethics and applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U247	Good evening, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, On 14 October 2021, the Saeima received a collective application from 10 282 Latvian citizens entitled “Let Members film at the Saeima”. The Board of Mandates, Ethics and Applications of the Saeima has examined this collective application and listened to the initiative representative, who maintained the topicality of the application only in part regarding filming of sittings of the Saeima commissions. The representative stressed that the agenda of the Saeima sittings was the result of the work done by Members in the commissions. In the opinion of the representative, it would be important to film sittings of the Saeima commission, because the video can also be seen by Members' gestures and puzzles, which are not seen in the audio record of the sitting. The representative of the Public Relations Bureau of the Saeima informed that there was no ban on filming the work of Members and the events of the Saeima. He stressed that the sittings of the Saeima have been broadcast live for 15 years, but the audio recordings of committee sittings are available on the Saeima's website, while journalists have the opportunity to participate in committee sittings. The representative of the national data inspector informed that it was important why the filming of Members is necessary because the processing of personal data should be for a specific purpose. It is not necessary to install video surveillance in the Saeima premises from the perspective of the State Data Inspectorate, because the work of the Saeima is already sufficiently transparent. After hearing the invited representatives, the Saeima Mandate, Ethics and Application Commission decided to hand over this Latvian citizens’ initiative to the Saeima’s Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission for further evaluation and, on the basis of the fourth and fifth paragraphs of Section 131.5 of the Saeima’s Rules of Procedure, prepared a draft decision “On the way forward of the 10 282 Latvian citizens’ collective application “Let Members’ Work in the Saeima””. On behalf of the Commission, please support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-20-PT13-2351-U248	Thank you. Please call me! We will be voting on the draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application of 10 282 Latvian citizens “Let the work of Members in the Saeima””! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, We should consider another additional issue. Please enable the procedure section. Dear colleagues, Members Dombrovskis, Tavars, Papule, Valainis, Krauze, Vucans, Dauge, Smits, Pucens, Moneys and Girgens have submitted an own-initiative proposal – a draft decision “On the task of the Saeima Presidium to resume the Saeima work on the ground without delay”. Dear colleagues, Rule 117 of the parliamentary roll states that in order to put the parliamentary presidency's own motion on the agenda of the parliamentary sitting, it must be available to Members of the parliamentary assembly at least 72 hours before it is examined. However, this own-initiative proposal was tabled at 8.26 p.m. on 18 January this year, so that it was not available to Members 72 hours before it was discussed and was not included on the agenda of the Saeima sitting. A roll of parliamentary order allows for the examination of an own-initiative proposal - a draft decision - earlier than that deadline if it has been requested by at least five Members of the Saeima for a more rapid examination. That is why the Bureau of the Saeima has received a request from five Members of the Saeima - Dombrovska, Papules, Pucena, Girgens and Tawar: according to the fourth paragraph of Rule 117 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, to examine this own-initiative proposal, this draft decision, today, so the Saeima will decide to examine this own-initiative proposal today. So we're going to vote now on whether the Saeima decides... Let us vote on whether this own-initiative proposal will be dealt with today. If agreed by the Saeima, the Saeima Bureau would convene a further extraordinary meeting of the Saeima today, the agenda of which would include a report from the Saeima Bureau on this own-initiative proposal. If the Saeima rejects this request made by five Members, which intends to see the own-initiative proposal today, this own-initiative proposal of 11 Members - the draft decision - will be placed on the agenda of the sitting of the Saeima on 27 January. Dear colleagues, so we will vote in favour of this... so let us vote on whether the own-initiative proposal - the draft decision on the task of the Saeima presidency to resume work on the Saeima without delay - would be on the table today, on 20 January this year. Please call me! Let us vote on whether the independent proposal of the Saeima Members - the draft decision on the task of the Saeima Presidium to resume the Saeima's work immediately - is to be discussed on 20 January this year! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It is therefore decided not to examine this own-initiative proposal today. It remains on the Saeima's agenda. So the Saeima Bureau will put it on the agenda of the Saeima's meeting on 27 January. Dear colleagues, The agenda for the sitting of the Saeima has been examined. I must inform you of the questions put by Members. Members Valainis, Augulis, Tavars, Jalinska and Krauze have asked: “What prevented the Ministry of Health from finding additional funding for family doctor practices in three years’ time?” , to be given to the Minister for Health to respond. Members Dombrovskis, Tavars, Papule, Pucens and Ģirgens have submitted the question “On the rapid increase in electricity and gas prices”, which is submitted to the Minister of Finance for response. Members Sprūde, Možvillo, Stepanenko, Petraviča and Nemiro have submitted the question “On Covid-19 statistics”, which is submitted to the Minister for Health for response. And Members Sprūde, Gobzem, Možville, Stepanenko and Petraviča have submitted the question ‘On Covid-19 statistics’, which is submitted to the Minister for Health for response. Registration of Members' presence. It's over. So I closed my extraordinary session on 20 January this year.
