ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room. Let's start 13. Meeting of autumn session – 13. The Saeima is also the last cause of work in this Parliament. Dear colleagues, we will start the sitting of the Saeima on 8 September with a speech by the President of Latvia. Let's see the President of Latvia. Thank you. Name to the President of Latvia Egil Levit.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U2	Dear Chairman of the Saeima, Mūrniece. Honourable Members! Ladies and gentlemen! 13. The Saeima has recorded at least three paradoxal findings in the political history of Latvia. The first: the government is formed by the smaller party of the Saeima, and one of the biggest – by an amazing speed collapses into tiny clouds. Second: in five ideologies and later four ideologies, the seemingly unstable coalition of so different parties turns out to be surprisingly stable and productive. For the first time in the history of Latvia, the government has been working for four years. Third: two unforeseen and severe crises – the global pandemic and the Russian war against Ukraine – completely alter the planned political agenda. But it is you – 13. Saeima – you accept a good number of laws of conceptual importance. They will serve long-term state security, development of Latvia as a legal and modern state. Thanks to 13. The security of our country has been significantly strengthened by the Saeima, the government and the close cooperation of the state's senior officials. More ally soldiers, better armament and team structure – this is the meaning of decisions of the NATO Madrid Summit. Defence expenditure will be increased – you decided it – to 2.5 per cent of gross domestic product. However, Russia's aggressive imperialism will continue to threaten Latvia and Europe during the period under review. Therefore, the proposal of the Minister of Defence to establish the State Defence Service from 2023 is timely, necessary and acceptable, as responsibility for his country, its independence and democracy rests on the citizens' shoulders. The law adopted by the Saeima on protection at school will also contribute to civic education and patriotism. Defence lesson – it will be a citizenship school. The state security is served by the capital repairs of the Saeima and the government of the financial system. Our financial system can no longer be used for criminal purposes, Latvia's state reputation has been restored. Trust in courts and the rule of law is enhanced by the Court of Economic Cases, initiated by the Minister of Justice and established by the legislator. It provides a faster and more efficient way of addressing all kinds of schemers. The Court of Economic Cases and the changes you have adopted in procedural laws will prevent the possibility of delaying court proceedings for several decades, thus undermining public confidence in justice. In the long term, the project of the Ministry of Justice to create a Academy of Justice is equally important. It will be an institution where judges and prosecutors will be further trained on a continuous basis. This will ensure the continuous high-quality growth of the judicial system. 13. The Saeima, you dear friends, accompanied by a passionate discussion, adopted an administrative territorial reform promoted by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. The reform makes municipalities more economically powerful and services – equally accessible and of better quality. It is indeed one of the most important reforms of recent years. In turn, the Law on Municipalities to be adopted by you – in this parliamentary term – should provide for the right of people to elect their representatives to deal with local matters as well. This is a matter of civil participation and democracy. In parallel to the already adopted law on the historical lands of Latvia, the local and thus common national membership of our people will be strengthened. The Council for the Development of the Historical Countries of Latvia, led by the Minister of Culture, will promote multi-colored local initiatives. This whole set of laws, which I have just mentioned, will strengthen both prosperity and the rootness of people and democratic participation. The reform of higher education initiated by the Ministry of Education and Science and further developed by the Education, Culture and Science Commission of the Saeima was one of the delays for years, where we were not ahead, but finally achieved. It is also one of the most important reforms. However, the reform will only be implemented if adequate funding for higher education and science is available. Science is the foundation of a modern state. The politicians must be able to incorporate this into the state budget. 13. The Saeima has also proved that democracy has teeth – it is able to protect itself. For the first time in the history of Latvia, the Saeima dismissed the capital city, because in a democratic, legal state it cannot be allowed that the municipality does not comply with the court judgment for a long time. The decision of this Saeima to significantly increase the funding of parties from the state budget, as well as amendments to the law, which removes part of the funding for broken parties that are no longer able to fulfil their promises to voters. Democracy needs only party based on voters and not on selfish sponsors. All the reforms I have mentioned will have a lasting impact on Latvia in the long term. I can mention a number of other laws and decisions that resolve problems that have not been resolved for a long time, such as the Housing Rental Act, forced divisional property reform, the Public Electronic Media and their Management Act, the Ports Act, the improvement of the funding model of the State Culture Capital Fund and many others. Honourable Members! 13. The family is timely and well-balanced, referring to public concern about the rise in energy prices, decided to partially compensate for and support households that will be particularly hard hit. For the time being, €442 million has been allocated to aid. A further EUR 50 million is intended to support energy-intensive businesses. However, would it not have been much better and spending much less if we were already operating rather than just planning ambitious wind farms; if a liquefied gas terminal had already been built three years ago; if many households had already moved to renewable energy sources and the houses had already been warmed up? All this was known years ago, now we are starting to do it. The European Commission has already launched a Green Deal in 2019. However, there is a feeling that we have been fighting in front of open doors for years without being able to take decisive steps. I think that must not continue to do so. Latvia and the world are located at the beginning of a significant new era. It is a new economy where new skills will be needed and which will be based on renewable resources, science, digitisation and innovation. I will remind you that our international performance in these areas is below the European average. That means we're late. We in Latvia do not have a stable basis for this new stage of world development sufficiently well prepared. That is why the task of the next Saeima and the government is to eliminate this backwardness, the one that we have reached in the last years, I would say, perhaps in the last decade, by promoting a technology- and innovation-based and export-driven economy. Ladies and gentlemen! It is clear that our lag is particularly marked in areas where cross-sectoral coordination and cooperation of public administration is needed. These are what I mentioned, but there are others as well. I have pointed out on several occasions that the system of national governance designed at the beginning of the 20th century no longer meets the needs of the 21st century. If we want a modern state, we need a modern state government that is able to deal effectively with today's challenges, so that means both a flexible political government model and a modern, effective civil service. For the next candidate, the Prime Minister, I will ask for a concrete plan for national governance reforms. Honourable Members! Ladies and gentlemen! Russia's invasion of Ukraine is an attack on the right of self-determination of the people, on the international legal order of the world, on European values and on the security of the world. Latvia has helped and will continue to help Ukraine. Our foreign minister's clearly defined consistent and unpopular policy towards the aggressor country has had a significant impact on the common policy of the European Union. It has increased the political importance of our country, Latvia, and our entire region in Europe. The war against Ukraine has also illuminated the remains of the Soviet occupation and colonisation in our own land. They were part of our daily life so that many of our societies had already discovered them, but they continued to poison our society for 30 years. For 30 years, we continued to walk along the streets named after the executives of the occupation power. For 30 years, we have been satisfied that knowing the state language is not an obstacle to getting a job, but knowing the Russian language may become one. Although the national-oriented part of society and their representative political forces have always consistently pointed to this modern, democratic, national country's inappropriate colonial heritage, the previous attempts to get rid of it have not been successful. However, as a result of Russia's aggression, our society has become more sensitive, more visible, and it is better able to see these sketches left by the occupyors in our soul. I would like to emphasise that 13. The Saeima has already made a number of important decisions to clear our country from the consequences of the Soviet colonialism. An occupation monument has been demolished. It won't serve the Kremlin's ideological ritual anymore. By November, the famous monuments of occupation will disappear throughout the country. The Russian propaganda channels have been closed. Security services and the police have legitimate grounds to address the praise of Russian imperialism and aggression in our public space. But, in particular, I would like to point out the involvement of society in this process. For example, the references of poet Liana Lang and other activists to the unwarranted distribution of Russian have made many aware of the most visible expression of this colonial heritage. Very many have changed their position, because our country has its own common language, it is a language of democratic communication for all, regardless of the mother tongue or nationality used in parallel with that country's language. A great deal of work has also been done by the society “Centre of Public Memory” by drawing up a country-wide list of streets and other places named by the Soviet occupation and their local collaborators. Now it is up to the municipalities to examine this list. We and ourselves – ourselves! - and not people, events, memorial days that are important to the former foreign power and occupations, in whose words it would be worth to name streets and squares that shape our everyday environment and our understanding of history. We are part of European culture; we are part of the democratic world. It is time to get completely rid of the colonial heritage of both the visible and the invisible occupation regime that has been left to date. It is worthy of our independent, democratic, national state of Latvia. And this is worthy of free nations. Honourable Members! There are some more laws that I hope you will adopt in this, 13th Saeima, this last cause of your work. Soon, at second reading, you will see the draft law on the transition to education in the national language. It is an extremely important reform (I would say like an administrative territorial reform) - one of the fundamental reforms you have done... or you will, if you pass this law, because children who will learn the knowledge together in the common state language will grow naturally from childhood into the democratic system of values in Latvia. The Ministry of Justice is currently working on the law, which must prevent any possibility of discriminating against Latvians in their own country. Hopefully you will begin to see it in this term. On October 15, the National Language Day will be celebrated for the second time. I recall that our society expects from the government's report to the Saeima on the state language situation in the country. Such a report must become an annual tradition. I also call on you to adopt, as a matter of urgency, the amendments tabled by me in the law of the Orthodox Church of Latvia. Independent Latvia needs a completely independent, independent, autokefal Orthodox Church, as it was before the Soviet occupation. The adoption of these amendments will rule out any potential power or influence of the patriarchate of Moscow over our Orthodox Church. It is a matter of national security, and that is why I highly appreciate the readiness of our Orthodox Church to go this road of autocrefalia. And I can assure you that the State of Latvia will provide the Church with all necessary support and protection. Honourable Members! As we approach 13. To conclude, I can say that the country of Latvia has become safer and stronger in these four years, it is better prepared for the challenges of the future, but we can be even better. Many thanks to you all together and individually for your work, for your work! Those who stand as candidates for the next Saeima wish good luck, but those who do not stand as candidates wish good luck in your future life and work! Thank you very much. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U3	Thank you to the President of Latvia. Colleagues, get up! Thank you. Dear colleagues, Let us start by looking at the agenda of our sitting. First of all, the amendments tabled to the Bureau's agenda. Legal Commission (The Hall on Noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) ... The Legal Commission asks for the draft law “Amendment to the Criminal Procedure Law” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Ramona Petraviča, Aldis Gobzems, Kaspars Ģirgens, Jūlija Stepanenko, Ieva Krapāne, Lubova Švecova and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft decision on the fixing of the price ceiling for natural gas and electricity. ‘ Ramona Petraviča, a Member, has applied to speak about’.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U4	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Electricity and gas prices are currently hitting Latvia. ‘ Latvian gas” will no longer offer equalized payment options for gas from September. The government and the “Latvia’s gas” themselves do not seem to understand how much gas is in Inčukalns gas storage and how long it will last. Electricity prices range from four to four thousand euros per megawatt-hour. These factors already make both resources unavailable to the most vulnerable and will soon also make them unavailable to economic operators. The current support mechanisms will not be able to mitigate this crisis, and the provision of lump sums to households only in the short term and to a very weak extent could reduce the economic burden. In the case of undertakings, the size of the aid mechanism would depend entirely on the price of electricity, but it is obvious that it is unpredictable. For these reasons, I propose setting a price ceiling for electricity and gas, ensuring the lowest price in the region. It should be borne in mind that one of the biggest costs for entrepreneurs is heating and electricity, so uncontrolled price increases from the beginning of the autumn could lead to huge costs or even bankruptcy. In both cases, it is expected that workers will be released and a new wave of emigration will start. Entrepreneurs are already shortening working time. This is done by supermarkets and sports halls decide on the cessation of their activities. Households are in a similar situation: they must refuse to maintain a decent standard of living or even let their children go to school without the necessary schoolwork. And there are no long-term support mechanisms yet. All this is exacerbated by the fact that the electricity produced by our hydropower plants, which cost only a few cents, goes to the stock exchange and consumers have to pay astronomical amounts for it. ‘ Latvenergo’ therefore earns around EUR million per day. At the same time, the nation is failing because of electricity prices. ‘ Latvenergo has concluded its first half of the year with a record profit of 142 million, which could be spent to ensure price ceilings and the lowest price in the region. The European Union is finally beginning to talk about the freezing of prices, warning the Belgian Minister for Energy and the Austrian Chancellor that five to ten dreadful winters are waiting for Europe if gas prices are not frozen. Where do we have a solution? Given that the end of the electricity and heating price crisis is not visible, it is clear that long-term support needs to be provided by controlling both suppliers of resources. I therefore call for the introduction of a cap on electricity and gas prices and for this proposal to be included on the agenda of today's sitting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U5	Mr. Pat has applied to speak to Mr. Kaspars Ģirgens.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U6	Do we have a real nation-loved president? We can all ask this question. Did it become clear to us, listening to this speech, what will be our next steps - a week ahead, a month ahead or a year ahead? When I sat down and listened, I heard nothing of it. But we all know very well that the President of Latvia has strong instruments to influence both the coalition, the Saeima and the Cabinet of Ministers. He has every chance at any moment to call at least the same emergency... The meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers and demand concrete and clear steps on how we should take action to prevent this energy crisis. Within four years, the President has never taken advantage of this opportunity, but simply looks from the edge, looking at how we fall into the deepest abyss. And when we talk about this energy crisis and the proposal that we have put forward, that prices should be fixed... I had tabled this proposal last week, and the dear coalition rejected it. But, oh, yesterday Krišjānis Kariņš came with a statement that we need to fix the price of electricity. What a miracle! You have every opportunity now to vote for what Krišjānis Kariņš dreamed of... and publicly went out with this information yesterday. But I am most shocked by the way in which its actions are currently taking place in order to mitigate this crisis. Each of you had the opportunity to join the Commission of State Administration and Local Government on Tuesday and listen to the speech and vision of the Minister of Economics as we will move forward. In these five minutes, there was nothing clear to the people who followed live. There was no figure, no step that the Minister explained. We still do not know what support mechanisms will be available, and we all understand very well that September is the last time to do something. October will come... A new Saeima will be elected, and the new Saeima will only be the one who will take the next steps forward. Instead of being able to explain and tell something, it was only the ordinary official of the Ministry of Economics who had absolutely no understanding of what the next steps would be, or no number, that was before us, all Members, and also the listeners. No steps forward! We are talking around and unable to answer normal questions about how much gas we have, how much gas will be available to Latvian citizens this winter. Mr. Pouce still claims on his Twitter that 30 percent... There is not enough gas, and Mr. Kariņš lies and fails to explain these exact figures. May Mr. Pouce climb up this hallway and tell us what these contradictions are! We can do so, but we are not able to tell citizens clearly from the platform what is waiting for us this winter, how much electricity will cost, whether we will have gas or we will have tax incentives. The Ministry of Economics is only able to show the presentation and to point out: we are against the reduction in value added tax, we are in favour of the elimination of the OIC. No OIC has been dissolved, it will remain under Latvenergo’s profit. What makes Latvenergo profitable? We, all citizens. Are we all kind of a bunch of fools here? People are positioned in the role of fools. We are all slaves. People have to think about how to pay out of their wages... Everyone has to worry, or when he is fired, he will have to pay for his family. I'm ashamed of this Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U7	So one Member has spoken 'for', one for 'no'. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft decision on the establishment of a price ceiling for natural gas and electricity on the agenda of today's sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 38, no, 47, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft decision is not on the agenda of the sitting. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Waste Management” be included on the agenda of the Saeima meeting at first reading. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Viktors Valainis, Uldis Augulis, Janīna Jalinska, Jānis Vucāns, Gundars Dauge, Ramona Petravičs and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions”. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U8	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I hope that you have all had the opportunity to get acquainted with this proposed law. And I will briefly describe the substance of the bill. Colleagues, when you voted in favour of the 2022 budget, also voted in favour of the 2023 medium-term budget package, 2024. In this package, you voted that the Prime Minister, ministers, will have a significant increase in wages. From today's point of view and... If we count, then ministers will increase their salary by two thousand euros per month and the head of government will increase their salary by three thousand euros per month. Against that background, we see that the teachers have applied for a strike on September 19. How do you, fellow Members, feel it is right that there was nothing in the multiannual budget for teachers in 2022? Currently, the Ministry offers teachers a salary supplement that is more than 30 times different from the one that will be received by the Prime Minister. I call on you, colleagues, to assess whether this is fair. Whether it is fair to teachers, whose salary supplement will not even cover the rise in inflation. Inflation growth - 20 per cent - against this 8 per cent increase, which is now offered to teachers in the base... I think that is not fair. At the same time, two thousand euros are present for members of the government. It's not their salary, it's the extra they'll get from 1 January. We call on the Saeima to put pressure on the government, not only this government, but also the next one. We do not call for this offer to be withdrawn, that there is no pay for ministers and the Prime Minister, that we do not, that we retain your approach, but that we offer one change - that these increases take effect at the moment when an agreement is reached with the educators. Colleagues, on 19 September begins not a one-day, two- or three-day strike, begins an unlimited strike. If this open-ended strike is taking place, I think it would only be normal if we evaluated the government on how they cope with the situation. At the moment, the government has not managed this, so we also offer to freeze the increase in wages to ministers until a compromise is found. I call for support for this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U9	Thank you. Do Members object to the inclusion of a draft law on the agenda of the sitting? Please call me! We will vote for inclusion of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” on the agenda of today’s sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 38, against - 48, abstaining. Draft legislation is not on the agenda of the sitting. Members Viktors Valainis, Uldis Augulis, Janīna Jalinska, Jānis Vucāns, Gundars Dauge, Ramona Petravičs and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendment to the law on extraordinary increases in energy prices”. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U10	Colleagues, this proposal, too, comes from educators and is inspired by educators. I think that every teacher now understands that the rise in energy prices will also have a significant impact on their daily lives. At this point, the state does not come to help educational institutions, it does not help to cope with price increases. Price increases also apply to educational institutions. We have heard examples of the same ice halves in public space. Let me just say one thing. The cost of EUR 6000 would already increase to EUR 24 000. It's in Jelgava municipality. I think that this infrastructure, including that provided for the needs of an educational establishment, will hardly be able to function further. Why do teachers come up with this suggestion? Why do teachers call on the government and the Saeima to do their homework and anticipate support for educational institutions? At the school, the money does not grow in trees. So money will have to be taken from somewhere, and in this case money will have to be taken from the teaching staff's own pockets. We call not to bring the situation to educational institutions so far that educators would be forced to pay for increasing bills, because where else in those educational institutions this money will arise... Well, there are no many options: either universities will put on students' shoulders or educational institutions... in secondary schools, it will simply be taken from the teachers. There are no other options to do this. We are therefore calling for support for this amendment, which has been drafted together with the teachers, and for a solution to these issues. You don’t have to wait for the moment when the problem occurs, and then you can do it in a timely way. I call for support for this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U11	Do Members object to the inclusion of a draft law on the agenda of the sitting? ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Please call us! We will vote for inclusion in the agenda of today's sitting of the draft law "Amendment to the law on exceptional increases in energy prices"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 38, against - 49, abstaining. Draft law shall not be included on the agenda of the sitting. The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption is asking for the first reading of the draft law on National Security Act to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Defence and Security Procurement” to be included on the agenda of the meeting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Cabinet asks for the draft law on ‘Amendments to the Immigration Act’ to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( Interface: ‘ Yes. Let's vote!' ) Please call us! Vote on the draft law on amendments to the Immigration Law (No. 1600/Lp13) on the agenda of today's sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 57, for - 19, for - 1. Draft legislation is on the agenda of the sitting. The Cabinet of Ministers revokes the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Support for Civil Population of Ukraine” (No. 1551 Lp13). So let me remind you that this bill has already been examined by the Saeima. Let us start by looking at the amended agenda. On the agenda - reports from the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Orthodox Church of Latvia” presented by the President of Latvia be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Artuss Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U12	Hello, dear colleagues! I may have reviewed something, but yesterday, when I opened the Saeima's website, I saw Mr. Cabanov's application to speak. ( The interdependencies of the fraction.) I very much wanted to speak after Mr. Kabanova, but that is nothing, I can speak without Kabanova. You can't hear it, can you? ( The interdependencies of the fraction.) I and the same, John Urbanovich, say that microphones are not regulated. Indeed, I say, not regulated! Colleagues, this bill... I would ask for it to be passed on to the Commission, because there have been a large number of stakeholders who have accepted possible changes to this law in favour of us... He also saw it. Colleagues, we do not change God's laws here, we change the laws of the earth here, and any law here is about the land of Latvia, not God's will or whatever. Colleagues, this draft law is a matter of national security, in my opinion. The National Security Commission has sent a letter to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs that there have been discussions and negotiations with both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Justice. Developer - Presidential Chancellery. So I ask you to support the draft law. But then we can start the debate ourselves safely at first reading, and there should not be a real debate here about this. So please pass this...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U13	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Time and Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Part of the Civil Law of the Renewed Republic of Latvia, Rights of the Heritage and Rights of Cases” presented by Member Māra Možvillo, Ralfa Nemiro, Ieva Krapāne, Alda Gobzem and Ramona Petraviča be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Maris Možvillo.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U14	Hello, Speaker of the Saeima! Hello, colleagues! An investigation of this law has revealed a problem that is very topical for the owners of apartments whose apartments or dwellings are located on the land of another owner. The problem lies in the fact that, as landowners change, there is no mechanism to find that the owner of the apartment has already paid for the land once. This leads to a situation where, following the change of ownership of the land, a new lease of land is claimed again and again. This precedent has already been met in Riga several times, and it would be important, however, to change this law not so that it would be created for one person (which, by studying the documents, proved to be the main promoter and ideological father of this law), but would be subordinate to the interests of the owners of apartments and also to some extent the owners of land. Colleagues, I call for support for these amendments because, as payments are approaching an increase, schemes of this kind should not be allowed, but they are currently being carried out in Riga and in some other cities as well. Colleagues, I call for this issue to be taken very seriously, not because I have tabled it as a representative of the opposition, but as... on behalf of the owners of all Latvian real estate... which may be in a certain problematic situation, where they will be required to pay for the land again and again after every change of land owners. Please support the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U15	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Please call us! We will vote for handover to the Legal Commission of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Time and Application of the Introduction to the Civil Law of the Renewed Republic of Latvia, Rights of Heritage and Rights of Cases” establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 46, it's against - 37, it's not. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Land Management” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Rail Baltica Project Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Protection and Management of the Marine Environment” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Private Pension Funds” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Investment Administration Companies” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and Their Managers” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Insurance and Reinsurance” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Distribution of Insurance and Reinsurance” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Investment Algorithms” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Dangerous Goods” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Aviation” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Railway Transport” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Road Transport” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Trade Marks” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Industrial Property Institutions and Procedures” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Law on the Transfer of Real Estate to the Riga Ghetto and Latvian Holocaust Museum” presented to the Education, Culture and Science Commission by Mārtiņš Bondara, Aleksandrs Kiršteina, Kārlis Šadurska, Evita Zālīte-Gross and Arvils Ašeradens be referred to the Education, Culture and Science Commission. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes to refer the draft law presented by the Cabinet “On termination of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway on the termination of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway on the promotion and protection of mutual investment” to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Regional Development Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the member Andreja Judina, Ainara Latkovska, Riharda Kozlovska, Anda Čakša, Kārlis Šadurska and Arvils Asheraden's draft law "Amendment to the law on the status of the long-term resident of the European Union in the Republic of Latvia" be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Andrey Judin, a Member, has signed up to speak about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U16	Colleagues, although in my opinion it is quite clear what the purpose and content of the law is, I had to answer questions several times, and I see that not everyone understands what the purpose and consequences of the law are. According to the current regulation, if a Latvian citizen or a non-citizen chooses another citizenship, he is guaranteed a permanent residence permit in Latvia, i.e. he changes citizenship, but he has the right to stay and reside in Latvia. With regard to several countries, I think it is a logical and understandable norm, but if someone wants to become a Russian citizen now, in view of the war that the Russian Federation is making and the aggression that is taking place against Ukraine, everyone should understand that if his values coincide with those of the Russian Federation and he wants to become a member of that country, he should not remain in Latvia. What do I want to stress? No audit is foreseen when these amendments are adopted. If a person is now in possession of a permanent residence permit, it will not be withdrawn. We are talking about people who will make a decision after the law has entered into force. If such a decision is made, you will need to think about a different place of residence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U17	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on National Security” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Arms Movement” presented by Mr. Rihards Kola, Mr. Janis Dombrava, Mr. Jurs Rancāns, Mr. Krišjānis Feldmans, Mr. Edvinas Šnores, Mr. Ainars Baķis and Mr. Janis Vitenbergs be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the commission responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law on Arms Movement Law to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, making it a commission responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 64, it's against 19, it's not. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes the draft law “Amendments to the Immigration Law” tabled by Mr Janis Dombrava, Mr Rihards Kola, Mr Jurs Rancāns, Mr Krišjānis Feldman, Mr Edvins Šnores and Mr Ainars Baskas (No. 1592/Lp13) transferred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, with responsibility for the Commission. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Please call us! Vote on the draft law on amendments to the Immigration Law (No. 1592/Lp13) transfer to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, making it a responsible commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the agenda - election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, trust (Pause.) ... So, my apologies, colleagues, there is indeed another draft law on the agenda - the draft law tabled by the government - to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Immigration” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers (No. 1400/Lp13) transferred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Draft decision on the election of Member Ainars Vilciņš to the Education, Culture and Science Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Member Ainars Vilciņš to the Education, Culture and Science Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of the Member Ainars Vilciņš to the Appeals Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Member Ainars Vilciņš to the Commission for Petitions! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 37, against - 52, abstaining - not. No decision has been taken. Next, consideration of Members' requests. Requests received by Members. Members Viktors Valainis, Jānis Vucāns, Karina Sprūde, Jānis Dūklavs, Ieva Krapāne, Ramona Petraviča, Ralfs Nemiro, Aldis Gobzems, Jūlija Stepanenko, Edgars Tavars and Maris Kučinskis have submitted a request to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “On the delay of the Minister of Education and Science A. Muižniece’s discussion with LIZDA and preventing teachers strike”. Name for motivation to Member Viktor Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U18	Dear colleagues, In 2009, salaries for teachers were reduced by 30 to 40 percent. The educators made a strike... Naturally, and the government with the educators came to the talks - to respectful conversations. In 2009, at the very beginning of the crisis, the government agreed with the educators - and not because they agreed to a 30 to 40 per cent reduction in their salary, but because it was a respectful discussion, an open discussion that resulted in an agreement on further steps in which educators, together with all the other public administrations, would overcome the crisis. Respectful treatment during this period is particularly important. That is why we also wrote this request to the Prime Minister to explain - namely to the Prime Minister! - What's his involvement? Symbolic cases are also of particular importance in this case, for example, on 29 August the negotiations were conducted. During the negotiation process, no negotiations were held on 29 August, because the Minister had something else to do. The minister was busy. And I understand that there can be things in the country why the Minister cannot attend such a meeting. That is why we asked the Head of Government to explain what was so important to the Minister on 29 August that he did not come to such an important negotiation. And I think colleagues, it is these small things that make up a big story. I'm absolutely not surprised at why the strike will be on 19 September. This is to a large extent due to attitudes. Colleagues, I call on the head of government to explain exactly what his ministers are doing at a time when they have to do the main thing in their sector: to prevent the strike of educators. What are government ministers doing? That is what we are asking for. In particular, August 29.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U19	Thank you. Consequently, we shall refer the request to the Requesting Commission. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law ‘Amendments to the law on ensuring the functioning of the President’, third reading. On behalf of the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government - Member Juris Pūce.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U20	Colleagues, we will work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Ensuring the Activities of the President of Latvia”” (No. 1428/Lp13) at third reading. The proposals for the third reading were not received by the commission responsible and supported the draft law at third reading. Please also support the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U21	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Ensuring the Activities of the President of Latvia” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendment to the Law of the Bank of Latvia”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Rihards Kozlovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U22	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law “Amendment to the Law of the Bank of Latvia”. Three proposals have been received. All come from the Minister of Finance and in fact clarify and simplify the procedures for dealing with issues at the Consultative Financial and Capital Markets Council meetings. 1. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U23	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U24	2. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U25	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U26	3. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U27	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U28	We have examined all the proposals. Request to support the draft law at second reading
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U29	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law of the Bank of Latvia” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U30	The deadline for proposals - five days - to 13 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U31	So the deadline for submitting proposals is 13 September this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Education Act”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Member Linda Medne.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U32	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! Commission for Education, Culture and Science to draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” (No. 1519/Lp13) have been examined. For the second reading, 40 proposals were tabled. Received from Members, the Ministry of Education and Science and the Legal Bureau... but at the time of the examination of the proposals, it was planned to develop... including in the working group of the Commission, involving experts from the sector. Let's start examining the proposals. 1. - Proposal by Members Papule, Golubeva, Dombrovskis, Dūrīša, Skrides, Rukšāne-Šchipčinskas and Bikše. Article 3 of the Law on Education stipulates that everyone has the right to quality and inclusive education by adding the words “including by receiving educationally adaptive support for the development of communication competences”. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U33	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U34	2. - Mr. Cilevič's proposal. Add to the article on the prohibition of differential treatment contained in the Education Law the condition of the prohibition of differential treatment - according to the characteristics of the mother tongue. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U35	Let's start a debate. The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U36	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to a simple fact. The list of grounds for differential treatment, both in the Constitution and in the EU anti-discrimination directives, is open. So there is always a list of the most widespread grounds for discrimination, and in the end there are: ‘as well as other grounds’ or ‘on other grounds’. In the Law on Education, this list is exhaustive. Consequently, discrimination is prohibited only on grounds expressly referred to in the law. And the mother tongue or language, unlike the Satversme, is not mentioned there. What does that mean? That in fact discrimination based on the characteristics of the mother tongue is allowed. There was a long debate in the Commission, and I see that Mr Janson will once again say that everything is already provided for in the Constitution and nothing else is needed. But if really the Constitution determines everything, for what is this article in general required by law? Why did we mention here the race and other grounds for possible discrimination, but do we not mention the language? Usually, both laws and international conventions contain the most dangerous grounds on which discrimination can indeed be expected. We know that already there are many children in schools who study in Latvian, but for whom the Latvian language is not native. With the adoption of this draft law, the number of these children will increase further. If, in these circumstances, we reject this proposal, we do not mention the language as one of the prohibited grounds for differential treatment, it is a clear signal that there can be discrimination based on the characteristics of the language. If you really vote 'no', then I would simply ask you to declare aloud that rejecting this proposal is a call for discrimination on the basis of language characteristics. I call on you to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U37	Name to Member Ritvar Janson.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U38	Hello! There was already a debate in the Commission on this issue, and it was also stressed that there are families where one parent is a person of one nationality, the other is a person of another nationality and a child already learns two languages from a young child. And then there's a complete confusion if he's asked who's his mother tongue. But the current wording of Article 3.1 also needs to be read. It makes it very clear that a student has the right to receive education regardless of his or her financial and social status, race, nationality, ethnic origin, gender, religious and political belief, state of health, occupation and place of residence. The Ministry of Justice also indicated in a letter to the Members of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science that, in the opinion of the Ministry of Justice, the term “ethnicity” also includes a sign of the mother tongue if a person is identified with a particular ethnic identity. Thus, the Ministry of Justice does not see the need to distinguish a language sign separately. The language of birth is one of the main national and ethnic groups... the language is a key structural element of an ethnic identity. Thus, the concept of ‘nationality’ also includes the concept of ‘native language’. I therefore call on you not to support Mr Cilevič's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U39	Name of Minister of Education Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U40	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members and Members, I will add to what Member Ritvars Jansons said. Indeed, the use of the concept of ‘native language’ is increasingly being abandoned internationally. It should also not be based on legal norms, because it is possible for a child to learn two languages at the same time from birth if the first years of his life pass in an environment where, for example, each of the parents and the child speak their language. And, also from today's theories, identification with your ethnic group is the most important thing. It is for the sake of this recital that the term ‘language of ethnic heritage’ is also used. In a multilingual family - that is part of the families of Latvian residents - the mother tongue of one of its members may be more than one. Issues related to the learning of native languages of minorities in schools should be considered as issues related to ethnic heritage language, because in the context of Latvian society and multilingualism, the concept of ‘native language’ could create confusion in education about its scope. Consequently, the term ‘native language’ in the broadest sense may refer to the mother tongue of any nationality and, consequently, include the native languages of national minorities. I call on Members to reject this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U41	The name to Member Boris Cilevič for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U42	Dear colleagues, I am very pleased to hear that Mr Janson and the Minister speak about multilingualism, which their parties have so far denied in a very dark way, said that there can be no multilingualism. But I am sorry, Minister, you should think seriously about how qualified your advisers are. Who told you that the term ‘native language’ is no longer used in international law and that it is replaced by ‘ethnicity’? That's not the case, you're just misled. Mr Janson, thank you very much for reminding you of the Soviet... Stalin's concept of so-called nationality. It was only used as a mandatory entry in the passport as a sign of a formal person, a mandatory description. There is no such approach, both in international law and in the democratic world. And you actually claim that a person's mother tongue is determined by his nationality, ethnic origin, entry in the passport, but we know very well that this is not the case. And there are also a whole number of people in this room, for whom this formal entry of nationality does not necessarily correspond to their mother tongue. Multilingualism is a very common phenomenon, but yet it is an absolute minority of Latvian children. An absolute majority of children have one clear mother tongue that does not necessarily coincide with the record of that child’s nationality. So you just call us back to the Soviet system, to the Soviets... compulsory recording systems of nationality, completely ignoring modern concepts and violating modern approaches, and this has been very clearly pointed out by the OSCE High Commissioner in his letter, which you have completely ignored. So please finally give up Stalin's concept and realize...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U43	Thank you, thank you. The speaking time is over. Thank you. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein... Thank you, Mr. Cilevič. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U44	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Honourable Members! I'm going to read two of the two documents so you can't get your head mixed up here. There are two documents (Mr Cilevičs always refers to European laws). The first is the General Convention on the Protection of National Minorities. And the Latvian Saeima adopted a second document, “On the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities”. What does this second document say? A very simple sentence: “Persons who are not nationals of Latvia or of another country but who are resident in the Republic of Latvia on a permanent and legal basis do not belong to a national minority within the meaning of the Convention in accordance with the definition of national minority in the Declaration of the Republic of Latvia...” So almost 200,000 non-citizens can't be a minority at all. Next. What, then, is this balance - 300 thousand? Are they minorities or not? Within the meaning of the European Convention, minorities have their own historical territory. For the Swedes, it was Vidzeme, the Island of Rones and the island of Kihnu, where they lived in the Åland islands for a thousand years... These are all Swedish territories in Finland. In Flanders, it is Dutch, where the Flemish lives for a thousand years... And it's French in Wallonia. And in Switzerland, you understand, and cantons are separated... Where does Latvia have some sort of mystic Russian-speaking autonomous territory? None. The second to which Mr Cilevič has forgotten to refer is the General Convention on the Protection of National Minorities. Even if we assume that these 300 thousand who have entered Latvia illegally from different parts of the USSR are a minority, then... What, then, does this convention say? Mr Cilevičs, I will read to you because you have already forgotten: "As part of the education system, the Parties undertake to recognise that persons belonging to national minorities are entitled to set up and run private education systems...". Next: ‘This right... shall not give rise to any financial obligation for the Parties.’ In other words, countries do not have to finance Saturday schools, private schools, say, Indians or Indians. There is no difference between Indians and Russians in Latvia; the difference is only that the Indians have not arrived with tanks, they have arrived with visas, they are studying, say, in Latvian universities and do not claim to some special kind of... requirements. The next thing is said in this convention. People belonging to national minorities, real national minorities here... In Vidzeme, as I said, Swedes who had lived for a thousand years could also be Germans - 800 years... But not in 50 years of occupation, the descendants of colonists who have reached the tanks! It therefore states (reading): ‘... the Parties undertake, if there is sufficient demand, to ensure, as far as possible, that persons belonging to national minorities... have the opportunity to learn the language of a minority or to acquire education... in the territory historically occupied by persons living in national minorities or in large numbers’. Well, you could say that there's this big number in Latgale, but if we look at the Conversion Dictionary, then... For example, there were only 17 percent Russian-speaking people in Daugavpils in 1925; they were less than Polish, less than Jewish and less than Latvian. So, I'm sorry, what school should they do here? They could open up, of course, a private school, but the state should not be financed. These are two documents and should not be forgotten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U45	Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U46	Hello, honourable Saeima! I wanted to object to what Mr. Jansons said, but now Mr. Kirštein, who, in my opinion, just shot himself in the foot of proof that the real people who live next to the Latvians here in the multinational Republic of Latvia, are not even Latvian minorities, and when quoting the General Convention for the Protection of Minorities of the Council of Europe, actually proved that everyone who is here is both Latvian minorities... And to ignore this fact - it would be simple, well, a great lack of education. But when you talk about what Mr. Ritvars Janson said... Use of the term ‘home language’ is actually... Well, create confusion, as he said. He also said that, in fact, the concept of ‘native language’ falls within the concept of ‘ethnicity’. My colleague, Mr Cilevičs, has already mentioned that the term "mother language" has been widely used in all the documents that Latvia has signed and committed to execute. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that since 1999 the General Education Act has been in force, which mentions at least three places the concept of 'native language'. In particular, Article 20 ‘Pre-school curriculum’: ‘Educational institutions implementing pre-school programmes shall provide support for the learning of Latvian for learners in need, including those who are not native.’ The concept of ‘native language’ is also mentioned in Article 30, ‘Implementation of the primary education programme’, which refers to the language of the minority. Moreover, Article 43 refers to the concept of ‘native language’ as ‘the content of general secondary education programmes’. The concept of ‘native language’ is clear to any school administrator, including ministerial staff. I call on the ministers to listen carefully to what your colleagues in the ministry have also told you, not for half a year, but for decades. This is the experience that the Latvian education system has already gained since the previous era, and the concept of “native language” or “family language” was one of the cornerstones of the creation of the Latvian minority education system, the basis of which was laid down by Rainis. I would like to remind you of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U47	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U48	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Honourable Members! I forgot to say: yes, we have another 50,000 Russian citizens... almost 200 thousand non-citizens, more rightly 197 thousand non-citizens and 50 thousand Russian citizens. So 250,000 is not a minority under Latvian law or under European conventions. We have about 190 thousand more, we have 200 thousand more rounds, which could be Latvian citizens... But there's one interesting thing here. President Zelenskis of Ukraine said that for the millions of Russian-speaking people who have been artificially deported from Russia or transferred to Ukraine - they will all have to leave Ukraine... Kiyiv... Former so-called ‘Prime Minister’ of the so-called ‘Donetsk People's Republic’. He also warned against buying property in Crimea because they had no right there. So imagine eight years later, one million of them will be sent out absolutely without any rights, without Russian schools and without any property. And I have that question... I think you can repatriate you after eight years of illegal arrivals, but after 18 years, after 28 years? So in this case, I would have a proposal: obviously the government has to think... and we have also been registered in the Declaration on the occupation of Latvia that we should help them repatriate. About 200,000... to offer EUR 10 000 each, it would be two billion, to divide them for four years, that is, 500 million per year. This is the only solution to both these educational problems... I think that the Group WELCOMES could help implement the declaration of occupation and help repatriate these people. And we should help, however, to find those two billion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U49	I closed the debate. The debate has already been closed. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U50	On behalf of the Commission, the proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U51	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Mr Cilevič's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 24, for - 63, for - 1. The proposal is not supported. Dear colleagues, The panel meeting is scheduled for a break. So we will continue to work on this draft law after a break. Please call me! Please check-in mode! Dear colleagues, Time for notifications. On 1 September our half-round birthday was celebrated by our fellow Member Jūlija Stepanenko, and we congratulate him. (Applause) Name for the statement to Member Uldis Budrik.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U52	Dear colleagues, Please, please! Please visit the yellow room for a short meeting of the Cooperation Group with Members of Lithuanian Parliaments on 17 September. See you now.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U53	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U54	Members of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs! After 10 minutes of commission meeting, link to your e-mails. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U55	Name Inese Voika to report the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U56	Colleagues! Not registered: Dagmara Beitnere–Le Galla, Anda Čakša, Raivis Dzintars, Armands Krauze and Didzis Šmits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U57	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U58	Dear colleagues, We're continuing the Saeima after the break. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Education Act”, second reading. On behalf of the commission responsible, Member Linda Medne.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U59	3. - Mr. Cilevič's proposal. It is encouraged to add two new parts to Article 3.1 on the prohibition of differential treatment, providing that segregation between educational institutions is prohibited. The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U60	Let us start a debate. The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U61	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you, especially the new Members, of a recent history. On 13 June 1996, the then Minister of Education, Maris Grīnblāts, gave such a programmed interview to the Ambassador of Latvia and, among other things, in answer to the question about learning languages, Mr. Grīnblata said: “We will never allow the mechanical mixing of non-Latvian and Latvian children in one school in one class.” Of course, the national association is still sticking to these software settings. It doesn't surprise me. I would rather be surprised by the so-called Liberals' position, because, colleagues, you talked a lot about ensuring that Latvian and non-Latvian children who speak different languages in the family should learn together before the elections. And when I hear from the Ministry of Education and Science that, with these amendments, we will achieve this, I am sorry, it is lies and demagogy, because in order to achieve this, the law must set at least the appropriate targets. That is what my proposals - 3 and 4 - are on the table. In fact, it is not enough for all children to learn the same language to avoid segregation. Not at all. Currently, we have a system where schools exist with Latvian language of instruction for Latvians and schools with Latvian language of instruction for non-Latvians. These are the schools that are currently implementing minority education programmes. And no measures to change the situation are foreseen. Even very moderate proposals that define segregation and propose to formulate desegregation as one of the objectives of the law are rejected. Colleagues, these are the lies that only one learning language automatically guarantees the absence of segregation. Not at all. I have sent a number of studies to the Commission, and I can also show you one study by the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe (by the way, at the time, our Nils Muižnieks), which was published through the European Commission. This is the case, for example, with France, where only one language is always being studied, but we know that segregation of schools is a very serious problem, and it causes a number of social problems. I'm not going to go into the details. Why, though, is this happening? You say that this process is taking place naturally. Not at all. You either don't know the practical situation or just want to pretend you don't know. What was the situation in Daugavpils when trying to combine 10th and 12th secondary school? You don't know what challenges parents who speak Russian when they try to... And now... send their children to Latvian schools. Really... Also in this study, where several main causes of segregation are identified, the so-called... what experts call white light, when most parents usually do not want their children to learn with them a lot of children who are a descendant of immigrants or who speak other languages in the family. And it's happening here. If there are two or three Russian-speaking children in the class, it is not a problem, but if there are half such children in the class, I think it will be quite difficult to convince Latvian parents that it is normal. There will be no easy solution here. Indeed, we will need to think seriously about how to make sure that our children learn together. But if from the very beginning we simply reject the existence of this problem and say, "No, no, we pass the law, no segregation can happen," we will pay for it very much. We will pay even more marginalisation, with even more social problems, crime and so on. All this is very well known, it has been studied several times. And there are ways to solve these problems, both in the US and in Europe, but if we simply prefer such a blindness that no, no, no, it can't be because it can never be, then, sorry, it's not the work of the legislator responsible. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U62	Name of Minister of Education and Science Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U63	Hello, honourable Members, again! I would like to remind you that the Education Act already provides for a ban on differential treatment, and this also includes preventing segregation. I will also remind you that overall the aim of this draft law is to implement a subsequent transition to state language learning in all levels, including pre-school, basic education, in order to promote the successful introduction of new teaching content and approach in all educational institutions and to ensure the acquisition of minority language and cultural history in accordance with the Constitution and international obligations of the Republic of Latvia. As a result of the education reform, which has actually lasted for more than 20 years, the state has gradually strengthened the common education system and use of the state language in public, municipal and private institutions implementing the relevant state education standard for all learners. As I said, the Education Act already provides for a ban on differential treatment, which includes preventing segregation, and the exclusion of one component (in this case only segregation) is not justified. There can be no such situation (and it is already enshrined in law) that there should be any different attitude, not just in terms of language - religion, for any other reason - allowed. By developing the quality management system of education, key indicators are being monitored and support is being provided to address specific problems. So that I call for no support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U64	Thank you. Name to Member Normunds Dzintars.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U65	Hello, Speaker of the Saeima! Hello, colleagues! Yes, the new Members were mentioned, and at this point I too would like to express my vision as a new Member (from 2 June) because, in parallel, I worked at the school in Liepaja. We have in schools that we already... Of course, we respect the Law on Education and there is no segregation in nature, because we do not distinguish between schools who comes to apply to us. For example, many years ago I had a student... I don't think I can say the word to the public, but the Russian nationality... who received the first place at the Latvian Olympics. It seems to me that there are no problems with learning in Latvian, and now we also have more and more pupils from minority schools who are learning the curriculum very successfully, and there are no obstacles so that they cannot do so. That's why I think, because we're faster, at last in 30 years! - move to the state language, because it will also be easier for them in their lives and for society as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U66	Thank you. Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U67	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear Members, One of the first laws adopted in Latvia was the law on minority schools, which has been in force since 1919. The fathers of the Constitution were well aware at that time that the culture of all nationalities had to be developed in a multinational society that is in Latvia, so without the Latvian-language Latvian school in the 1930s they worked in six other languages. In democratic Latvia, a hundred years ago, no one came to mind to exclude entire categories of population from society, to declare minority language as an occupied language and, above all, to call for ethnic clean-up, as one of the Saeima's work veterans did today from this tribunal. There should be no segregation in Latvian schools, children should learn together, but at the same time representatives of certain nationalities – Russians, Ukrainians, Arabs and others – should have full rights to state-paid classes in their language and culture. I ask you to support my colleague, Cilevič,'s proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U68	Name to Member Karl Shadursky.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U69	President-in-Office. Dear colleagues, I am a little surprised at the fact that we are talking about the prohibition of segregation precisely in relation to a draft law which is aimed at preventing segregation, because segregation in our education system has unfortunately existed for very long years. This draft law addresses these issues in particular. In our education system, I see the only risk of segregation in our largest municipality - Riga - where so far there was the principle that there was no so-called "micro-district principle" in schools implementing minority education programmes, but in Latvian schools it was, so in the first classes the child had to go to the school that met his micro-district. I have had discussions with colleagues from the Ministry of Education and Science, who should be doing on this issue from the Ministry, and yesterday I had a very meaningful conversation with representatives of Riga City Council, that this principle of microdistricts must be abolished immediately and that all children must be allowed to choose an educational institution according to the same principles, regardless of their ethnic origin, their mother tongue (not matter as you define it). So by abolishing the principle of micro-districts in Riga, we prevent any risks of segregation. It was focused mainly on my good colleague, Mr. Cilevičs, who is very concerned that segregation is being eliminated in the Latvian education system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U70	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U71	Dear President, Honourable Members! Mr Šadurskis has already said correctly that the biggest problem is with Riga, or perhaps also Daugavpils. Why? Then I'll remind you that before the war in Riga, Russian speakers... The Russians were about eight percent, it was the fourth ethnic group after the Latvians, Germans and Jews. And it wouldn't be a problem if there were those seven percent or eight, if there were those Lomonosov's gymnasiums that were before the war. But if, as a result of any political excess - if you don't want to use the word "Occupation", Latvians suddenly become a minority nationality with less than 50 percent, and Riga is the only capital in Europe with less than half, then it is not a normal situation and it has to be corrected in some way. I would not like to agree with the previous speakers here on some kind of ethnic clean-up. We are not already as evil as President Zelenski, who said he would expel a million and they would not get anything. The Russian Council is currently examining the new draft law. The Russian citizenship law states that former USSR citizens, of course, do not have to go through naturalisation, simply have to submit an application. But at the moment, the new project, which is in the discussion, gives the citizens of the Baltic States privileges, namely, automatic citizenship - if they repatriate, they do not have to do anything at all. Here, let us say, it is said in the declaration of occupation that the Cabinet of Ministers, together with international organisations, must help repatriate people, so, for the citizens of the USSR, it does not matter what nationality they have, to their ethnic homeland. It cannot in any way be considered to be an ethnic clean-up. Let's see what's going to happen in Crimea. No way... I agree here with Mr Cilevičs in one sense that there can be no more than three or four students in class who do not speak Latvian and who integrate. If there are more than 50 percent of them, then no integration will take place there. And absolutely right! What, as a result of the Soviet occupation, has been distorted by force, cannot be resolved by speaking. Of course, something needs to be done. If we had implemented what was said in the declaration of occupation, the Cabinet would have offered money and helped to repatriate all these years. Yeah, why am I talking about repatriation? Sorry, Latvians were already as ifd was under Soviet colonists. They had the opportunity to become Latvian citizens after five years of life. How do you explain that within 30 years, 200 thousand do not want this nationality? Why don't they want to, we don't know. I think I allow most to expect the Russian Empire to return here, but let us not pretend that this is not the case! And then why do they need them here? Why should Latvia finance - contrary to the European Convention - these non-citizens, such as the education system? So let's start first with these non-citizens. If we are talking about Russians, then these are total nonsense, that let's say, they're not in Latvian schools. I'll remind you. About 20 thousand have already taken part in the struggle for freedom... There were about 20 thousand so-called... known as white-collar or white-circle ophysiers of the army. Part of the army of Judenič... Those who know history... Lyven's units were three thousand... They all became citizens. They were loyal citizens who were deported, murdered and so on by the Soviet authorities. So if there were these seven percent in Riga, I think it's Lomonosov's gymnasium... In general, we would not have any problems here. There is no point in referring to pre-war Latvia, which, through its minority policy, showed that it was in a way catastrophic. Let's remember the tank kissers, let's remember everything that happened and where it remained in Latvia. We should therefore not refer to this. I think that this proposal should be rejected and it should be remembered that everything must be within the limits of reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U72	Name of Member Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U73	Colleagues, the current version proposed by the Commission... Not only at this point, in all points to the second reading in general, I think that there is a legal basis to ensure that both integration and schools can support those children, those pupils who have no Latvian language. I would also like to emphasise that we called for this result - a single school for all - as early as 2018. This was both our programme and our proposal in the government declaration, which, unfortunately, was not right at the time. But I think we should not now resort to the text voted by the Commission, because whether these support mechanisms will work, or whether any accidental segregation will be prevented - all this will now depend on education administrations, the management of the Ministry of Education and Science and also on school management and teachers themselves. If we see - we, the public, I think, in this case - that something is not going in the right direction, that support is not enough, that de facto segregation is taking place, then we will have to get involved and correct, but currently the legislative text, by nature, allows us to act exactly as was meant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U74	Thank you. The name to Member Boris Cilevič for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U75	Dear colleagues, Thank you. It seems to me that the situation is absolutely clear. So it's about it: a man comes to the police and says, "I'm threatened." - “You were killed?” - "No." - “You see when you kill, then come.” Everything is clear, everything is already visible, Mrs Golubeva! What we're gonna pretend there. Clearly, you have resigned from your very democratic ideas and now you cannot even justify it properly. Mr. Shadursky, yes... I think you should read that UNESCO Convention once. Well, how misleading colleagues can be! Article 2(b). Why does the existing system of minority education not constitute discrimination and segregation? This is a purely legal definition. The use of minority languages is one of the most powerful forms of desegregation in the US, by several other people... Mrs Golubeva talks about support. What support if there are no teachers! Support is primarily provided by teachers. If you don't... Even in prestigious Gymnasiums, there's a lack of teachers, as you're somewhere in Bolderaya... will you provide support in that former minority school? Let us not deceive ourselves! Mr Dzintara, thank you for what you are doing, of course, but your logic is truly amazing: I know one, even a number of Russian students who have successfully integrated themselves, so there are no problems. I know hundreds and thousands who do not have such successful integration, but you do not know. An example is not an argument. And the last one. I really regret that the Minister simply reads some texts that have nothing to do with the issue under discussion and does not even mention what the definition of segregation is. Whether it is a different attitude or something else. I would be very grateful if you (interim: “Time!” ) to at least express its...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U76	Thank you, thank you, Mr. Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U77	... and demonstrate that you understand what you are talking about.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U78	I closed the debate. The debate is closed. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U79	The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U80	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - Mr Cilevič's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 18, it's against - 55, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U81	4. - Mr. Cilevič's proposal. Associated with the previous proposal. It is encouraged to state that it is the duty of an educational programme implementer to prove that the prohibition of differential treatment is not infringed if a person indicates segregation as a factor. The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U82	Members (Interface: “Vote!” )... asks for a vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - Mr Cilevič's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U83	5. - Proposal by Members Papule, Golubeva, Dombrovskis, Dūrīša, Skrides, Rukšāne-Šchipčinskas and Bikše. It is encouraged to add a new paragraph to the Article on the prohibition of differential treatment, which states that, in order to prevent direct or indirect discrimination, it is the duty of the educational programme implementer to provide pedagogically adaptable support for the development of competences. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U84	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U85	6. - Member Pimenova's proposal. It is encouraged to clarify Section 9.1 of the Law by providing that private education institutions acquire education in a state language or another language. Given that the proposal provides for a different concept from the draft law and thus other provisions contained in the draft law are essential... be radically altered, the proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U86	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U87	Dear Members, Honourable Members! The first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” supports the acquisition of general education in private education institutions in the state language. The norm adopted at first reading restricts the constitutional right of persons belonging to minorities to acquire education and to maintain and develop their language and identity. I therefore propose that private education be provided in public or in another language. The rule adopted at first reading is clearly aligned with the public education institutions of a private education institution in determining the language of instruction, which radically reduces the autonomy of private education institutions. The recognition of their autonomy results from the General Convention for the Protection of National Minorities of the Council of Europe, namely Article 13 of the Convention, which states: “As part of their education systems, the Parties undertake to recognise that persons belonging to national minorities are entitled to establish and run private education and training institutions.” Following amendments to the Education Law adopted in 2018, which already significantly reduced the possibilities of private education institutions to implement training in minority languages, a constitutional complaint was submitted to the Constitutional Court. On behalf of two students, it had been signed by their father, Tengiz Djibouti, who also attended the meeting of the committee responsible. Please remember this name, gentlemen. On the basis of the constitutional complaint there was an open case of the Constitutional Court regarding the fact that amendments to the Law on Education limited the fundamental rights of a person, which derive from the first sentence of Article 112 of the Satversme, namely, “Everyone has the right to education”, in conjunction with Article 114 of the Satversme: “Persons belonging to minorities have the right to preserve and develop their language, ethnic and cultural specificities.” In the judgment the Constitutional Court agreed that (quot) “the contested norm restricts the fundamental rights of a person, which result from the first sentence of Article 112 of the Satversme in conjunction with Article 114 of the Satversme”. ( End quoted) However, the Constitutional Court recognised that this restriction is proportionate and consistent with the Satversme. Meanwhile, two of the six judges of the Constitutional Court gave a special opinion, stressing that private education should have greater autonomy compared to public education. I ask Members of the Saeima to follow this view. On 15 March 2021, the European Court of Human Rights had opened a case on the basis of a complaint lodged by the constitutional complainant before the European Court of Human Rights, in which the case “Jibuti v Latvia” was opened. Taking into account that the previous amendments to the Education Law, which significantly reduced the use of minority languages in private education, are challenged by the European Court of Human Rights and are now pending before the court, Latvia's law should not support new amendments that further strengthen fundamental rights restrictions. In June 2020 an opinion of the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe was received in Latvia on amendments to Latvian legislation on minority education. The Venice Commission recommended that Latvia comply with its international commitments and recommended that private schools be excluded from the amendment package. In the light of these arguments, I propose that the rights of private education institutions, supported at first reading, be prevented from being restricted in the choice of language and that private education institutions acquire education in a public language or another language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U88	Name to Member Ritvar Janson.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U89	Yes, it is only amazement to see this member fight for the ban on segregation, given that the latter has indeed contributed to this segregation all these years by forming Russian schools and Latvian schools separately. Now we see in Mr Pimenova's proposal, too, this language principle that it is its desire to maintain Russian schools. Okay. Let's get out of all political matters. On this point, Mr Pimenova's proposal was the Ombudsman's opinion to the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. The Ombudsman made it clear that the proposal is contrary to the State Language Policy Guidelines 2021-2027. The main aim of the state language policy is to strengthen the positions and status of Latvian as the only state language in society. ‘ The aim of state language policy for 2021-2027 is to ensure the sustainability of Latvian as the only constitutionally defined state language, its use in all areas of public activity, promoting language research and the development and digitisation of language resources, strengthening public participation and individual responsibility in the implementation of state language policy.” Judgments of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Latvia were also mentioned here. The Ombudsman indicates that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Latvia in its judgment of 13 November 2019 in the case No. 2018-22-01 as the language of education in private education institutions has recognised that education in the state language contributes to the inclusion of persons belonging to minorities in Latvian society, namely, the aim is to strengthen the use of the state language, ensuring that everyone is taught the state language not only as a subject of study, but also uses it in everyday life and is able to participate in the life of a democratic state. The restriction of fundamental rights laid down in Article 9.1 of the Education Law has a legitimate aim - the protection of democratic facilities and the rights of others. I therefore call for the motion from Member Pimenova not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U90	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U91	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, In my opinion, many educational professionals - former Minister, existing lecturers - have spoken here, but I think we forget about distance learning as one of the educational tools. In particular, any Latvian citizen can now register his children at any educational institution in Russia, Belarus or another country and carry out... a distance learning programme on the Internet, followed by individual national certificates, diplomas and so on. The State of Latvia simply cannot restrict it in any way or, let us say so, register it and so on. What did Mr. Pimenov offer? It seems to me that SASKARĖ's offer goes directly to the interests of the state, so that private institutions registered in Latvia will have the opportunity to teach in Latvian, Russian, Arabic, Ukrainian and other languages. And these schools will be registered in Latvia, but in other cases people simply go to the Internet, then they get certain national certificates, diplomas and leave Latvia. Do we need brain drain? I don't know. You have to decide.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U92	Name to Member Karl Shadursky.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U93	Dear colleagues, THE proposals made by Members are, in fact, very well understood and logical from the point of view of the self-preserve of this party, because the number of Latvian citizens needs to be sufficiently high, which is weakly managing the national language, and therefore, in the election, their choice will be mostly motivated by the language principle rather than by the political orientation of this party in the political spectrum. So everything is understandable. The only question is whether our education policy is a slalom track, where we are turning on one side, on the other. I don't think so. This article, on which the proposal has been tabled, provides (in its current version) that general education... regulates the language of general education in private institutions. Mr Pimenova's proposal, on the other hand, speaks simply of private educational institutions without specifying the educational phase. This would also affect private universities, where the previous Saeima has already adopted regulation on language policy in private universities. Therefore, this would be a departure from the previously adopted one, which has already been challenged by colleagues in the Constitutional Court. But they contested it very cunning: they did not talk about Russian positions, they said that in private universities this regulation restricts the use of European Union languages. The Constitutional Court partially satisfied this proposal, and the Saeima complied with the judgment of the Constitutional Court by extending the use of the languages of the European Union to private universities, or higher education in general. So everything is fine, but this time, as I say, the forger was so cunning that he played himself. In any case, Mr Pimenova's proposal must be rejected because it is completely contrary to the progress and meaning of this draft law. I can also tell my colleague Kabanovs just one small detail that basic education is mandatory in Latvia. I very much hope that we will soon also have compulsory secondary education, whether general or professional. And then the picture that Mr Kabanov drew is already not possible in primary education, but it will not be possible in the future for Russia's distance education in Russian schools. That is why we absolutely do not have this threat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U94	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U95	Hello, Latvian society! I let my kids go to school this Monday. At school not in Latvia, and on the first day of the school, the school director gave a speech in three languages: Spanish, French and English. And at that moment I imagine how many directors of the Latvian school... I am not even talking about pupils or teachers, but how many school directors know three languages in Latvia. After the first day of school, my children went to a sports class, where a sports coach (I emphasize - sports) talked in three or even four languages – as needed. It's modern education. A person who wants to be competitive knows, and he needs to know languages. We have been in power for many years butaforically telling about the Scandinavian-type country. I have been in all Scandinavian countries, and in all Scandinavian countries, absolutely all citizens without exception, from the smaller to the old, speak very freely in several foreign languages without accents. Then I remember, I have also read something about the history of Latvia. We had such young Latvians. One of them is Krišjānis Valdemars. If Krišjānis Valdemars were to climb the tributary today, probably the politicians of the Young Unity and National Alliance would call him ‘procremic’ because he called for language learning, especially Russian. And it can be verified by reading any article by Krišjānis Valdemars, anyone. What I want to say today to Latvian society, parents listening to this broadcast - our education system has been put down through the bubble thanks to the National Union and the New Unity. It is uncompetitive. Our best university is not close to the top five hundred, perhaps not even a thousand of the best universities. I will not talk about secondary education, which is below every criticism, because we are closing more and more schools. I'm calling... I understand that this proposal will be adopted and that this is only a pre-election of political dances between the National Association and the SACCAN, because there is no other - more important - issue to deal with. But I call on parents, those who love their children, to teach children foreign languages and, in particular - without fear of saying this, from the parliamentary tribunal - Russian. Russia will always be a neighbour to Latvia. And we always have to think in real politics if we want to be, not with the bare bottom and the walkways. We will always need Russian. We will need as a nation an uncompetitive language in the world... We will need at least two, if not three, foreign languages. And that should be ensured in every school, in every class - from first to last. For our children to be competitive so that they do not grow up as slaves to other nations and do not sell in Lithuanian supermarkets, but be the owners of these supermarkets themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U96	The name to Member Igor Pimenov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U97	I thank Mr Gobzem for his anthem for multilingualism. Indeed, it is the future of Latvia and Europe as a whole, the world as a whole. But, Mr Gobzem, this conversation is not about French, Spanish and also English. It's a conversation about a minority... The use of Latvian minority languages in the education process is not French, English or Spanish. I myself studied at a school where English was the language of two of our family languages, so English is not a foreign language for me, but a second language. Of course, apart from my... Latvian, which has become my second language. That's... The truth. While respecting Mr Janson's conviction and the Ombudsman's certainty, however, I would like to draw attention to what I said in my first speech, that the previous amendments to the Education Act, which significantly reduced the use of minority languages in private education, are already being challenged by the European Court of Human Rights and are now pending before the Court. Latvia's law should therefore not support new amendments that further strengthen fundamental rights restrictions. These amendments limit the possibilities of keeping the identity of persons belonging to minorities. That is why this is important. Not because multilingualism promotes development and children’s thinking ability. That is an identity issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U98	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U99	A little rejoinder to what Mr. Pimenova said. Mr Pimenov, the problem with SASKANE is that you have been able, in this House and not only in this House, to refrain from playing on the power coalition with which you are now having an argument for language now before the elections. We know it all very well... the many votes. You stay here to see Mr. Urbanovich, and you can get everything together. And now you don't need to play these games, this is just for... before the elections. I agree with you, language is very important, but there is one detail: identity is taught in the family, school... School schools, not bring up. There are parents to raise identity to raise Latvians about Latvians, Russians about Russians and so on. What I am talking about from the parliamentary tribunal is that what this parliament does and what this coalition of power has been doing for years makes our society and Latvians a competitive slave nation. That's what's happening. Let us be honest at the parliamentary tribunal: our so-called educational reform, everything that is being done in education, our people, our young people, makes the world uncompetitive, and that is so obvious. Everywhere, in all areas. From language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U100	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U101	Dear colleagues, let's call things in our words. It has to be said that this draft law is not intended to improve the education system at all. I absolutely agree with everything Mr Gobzem has just said, because there is one step here to combat Russian. This is a normal phenomenon in today's circumstances, if nothing else can be offered in place. Mr. Kirštein has offered a few methods of strengthening the Latvian language, putting it first... beyond the borders of those who do not know it very well - the colonists and so on, and so on. Unfortunately, the problem is very serious, because Latvian children go to work and study abroad. In no individual cases, and not only for those who have a wealthy parent and have the opportunity to do so, the number of people can be measured in thousands and tens of thousands. That is the problem. I think we will once come to an understanding that we need to end the war on languages, that we still need to think about our own prestige, about the future of our people, about the future of our multinational nation. First. Second. This is about education in the private sector, in schools. Forgive me, there are already private institutions working in Latvia today, where the basic language is English, French, German and Swedish. It's normal. It's normal, it's not against Latvian. Don't mind. I think that when thinking about Latvia's future, it is necessary to look much more widely and more deeply at matters related to education reform. And the last thing I want to say. Education is just an instrument. The school as such is an education tool because it affects the formation of new generations as citizens, as patriots, as thoughtful, independent people, which is very important. We are different thinking people, and this is a normal phenomenon. That's wealth. We cannot be united in equality. We are united in diversity - the way it is built in the European Union. So I think we should not argue about which language is a foreign language, which is a good language, which is the right language, which is the wrong language. This is neither an argument nor a logic. I think we should think about Latvia and the future of Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U102	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U103	On behalf of the Commission, the proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U104	The proposal is therefore not supported. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U105	7. - Member Kucin's proposal. It is encouraged to clarify paragraph 2 of Section 9(2) of the Law by providing that education can be obtained in another language in educational institutions implementing minority education programmes at pre-school and primary level. The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U106	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Kucin.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U107	Hello, colleagues! Firstly, the idea of a complete opt-out in minority language is counterproductive. It is contrary to educational goals – to ensure accessibility and quality education for all children, including those who do not use Latvian in everyday communication, but someone else. And there are many of them. If this problem is not topical in Cesis or Valmiera, then there is a problem in Daugavpils, Rezekne, also in Riga, Jelgava, Liepaja. The opt-out in minority language will, in fact, create new restrictions in the education system, making it inconsistent with the reality of today's reality. Secondly, this idea is unrealistic in the current circumstances, including the sharp lack of staff in the education system. This fact is not a secret to any of those present. National campaigns “Be a Teacher!” 365 vacancies were published at the beginning of the week. The implementation of the reform proposed in this situation is detrimental to children and irresponsible in view of the future of our country. Therefore, I propose to state paragraph 2 of Section 9(2) of the Law in the following wording: ‘in educational institutions implementing minority education programmes at the level of pre-school and primary education, subject to the provisions of Article 41 of this Law, taking into account the opinion of the parents of the children on the quality of implementation of existing pre-school and general education programmes, as well as on the request of the types of curricula to be implemented in each educational institution’. And here, colleagues, it is very important to find out the real demand - how much, what and what educational institutions, groups, educational programmes are needed at all. This is also the subject of amendments to the Education Act that I have tabled. It must not be denied that there is today a demand for training in both the state language and the minority language. And it is the parents who represent and understand their children best, especially at pre-school and primary age. I believe that the keywords here are "parents' opinion" and "the understanding of the real situation". It is parents who have the right to assess themselves when a child is ready to learn another language. We are all well aware that not only the knowledge provided by the teacher, but also the support and assistance of parents in mastering the assigned substance is very important for children in the pre-school and primary education phase, and this can best be done in the language the family speaks on a daily basis. In fact, this proposal will make it possible to ensure that the supply of educational institutions meets the demand, thus improving the availability and quality of education. Colleagues, I respect any choice of parents to provide my child with training in a Latvian or minority programme and I invite you to do so. I am convinced that his parents have the right to decide what educational institution the child will attend and in what language he will learn first. I call for my proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U108	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U109	REASONS! Your pro-cremic policy has capitalized. It is no longer stylish to defend Russian interests in Latvia. I therefore call on us to save all our time and to allow the Saeima to vote on all the proposals, because you will not change anything there either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U110	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U111	I'll start with an example. And an example is my family, my children. My children from the age of two went to school, kindergartens, and then school... in a foreign language. My children have never studied in a school in Latvian. Their first teaching institution was in English, their second institution was in French, and now the third one is in French and Spanish. My oldest daughter is six years old, and she speaks three languages... three foreign languages. If someone tells me that a child is so stupid that you can't learn a foreign language in your little child, I'll say that this person wants to hurt these little people, he wants to make sure that the little child doesn't learn the best. Totally all children at an early age are able to learn foreign languages, and absolutely all children, allowing them to learn whether it is Latvian or Russian, English or French... if they allow them to do so, they will learn. And it will stay for them all their life. Therefore, to say that it is difficult for children to learn languages is a lie. That is simply not true. Preventing children from learning a foreign language - this is theft of children. What happens to these laws and texts from the tribunal about some kind of interest... In reality, it is a pro-cremic interest to steal our children and not to allow us to learn the language, Mr Dombrava. I can say it out of this troupe and I'm not afraid to say it: dear parents, as much as possible... I invite you to teach and let your children learn Russian, learn French, English. And don't be hypocritical: there's minority languages or something else. It is also clear and clear to say: “We want our children to learn Russian.” I also want my children to be Russian. They will only be smarter by teaching a foreign language. They will be more competitive. By the way, Latvian children in today's circumstances, purely statistically, are less competitive than children from Russian families, because children from Russian families automatically learn more about one language. And it's stealing Latvian children - not to let them learn the language. That is something that should be talked about and debated from this tribunal and should not be debated about identity or anything else. Before that are the parents who teach at home... read fairy tales, and teach children to think in the language they speak at home. Home has an identity. Give me some new knowledge at school. And you don't have to make your kids look poor. Children are very smart personalities who, very quickly, unlike adults, are able to adapt and accept various new life challenges, learn them and be competitive later on. I am sure that my children will be grateful to me for what I, as a parent, have done for them in their early years, after years of teaching at least one more foreign language. That is what we need to talk about in the education system. And that's why for me this Monday, when the school director, Adriana, gave a speech in three languages... I had this idea - how many directors in Latvia can speak three languages in schools? How competitive the directors of schools are in Latvia, and how far will Latvia be with a single plus Latvian language if all Scandinavian banks have floors, where only English is to be spoken. Only in English! No word in Latvian can be spoken by Latvians, by the way, Mr. Dombrava... Latvians. Please combine the times if you can. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U112	So are there any objections to bringing together the times of the debate? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Please call us! Let us vote for bringing the time of the debate together for Member Aldim Gobzem! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U113	There was a national association against the unification of the time of the debate. In my opinion, the national (interim) ... In my opinion, the National Association is the biggest evil in the education of Latvian children.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U114	Thank you. Name of Minister of Education and Science Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U115	Hello, honourable Members, again! This is, in fact, one of the most important proposals. I very much hope that Members will support the Commission's decision to reject this proposal, given that it is fundamentally contrary to the objectives of the draft law. Our goal is to stop... We were very much discussing with previous proposals the prevention of any segregation. Thus, the objectives of this draft law are a unified education system and the abandonment of minority programmes. Commissioner Kucin, with this proposal, they still want to keep things like finding the parents' point of view, and so on. With regard to parents. Of course, the role of parents in children’s education is extremely important, but it is not possible for parents to decide that the child is not able enough to learn a language other than that used by the family. I think it is not in the interest of any parent and any educational institution to continue this injustice against children who have a different language in the family than Latvian... neither the official language of Latvia, to continue the injustice, to steal them (Intersaints.) ... steal them at the elementary education stage without providing sufficient knowledge of the Latvian language. ( Milestones.) No, no. So I am calling for this proposal to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U116	The name of the Member, John Isal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U117	Colleagues, in my opinion, are rather pointless here, from the parliamentary tribunal, to be ashamed of the proposals that have been tabled, because it is their political identity from the beginning of the 1990s (Interpretative call: "Right!" )... other lots. They submit proposals and vote as they have promised before the elections and how they have worked for decades against Latvia's interests. What is more embarrassing in this debate is separate “Latvians” (footsteps) who speak against the transition to Latvian in all schools. Aldi! If we know you in advance as...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U118	Colleagues! Colleagues, no, but let's turn to the bill! Let's not talk about each other!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U119	Gobzem! Member Gobzem! If we've known you so far...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U120	Thank you, thank you. The debate is closed, Mr Iesalnieks. ( Milestones.) The debate is closed. Thank you, thank you. ( Milestones.) Turn off the microphone, please! Please turn off the microphone! ( Milestones.) Mr. Malner, please leave the table! Please, on behalf of the Commission, for this proposal... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U121	On behalf of the Commission, the proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U122	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - Mr Kucin! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 20, it's against - 58, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U123	8 / 8 - Member Pimenova's proposal. Also encourages to maintain the norm that education can be obtained in another language at state and municipal educational institutions where minority education programmes are implemented, subject to the provisions of Article 41 of the Law. Given that, like the previous proposal, this proposal also retains the reference to an article of the law, the exclusion of which was supported at first reading, the proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U124	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U125	Thank you, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, This is my eight. - the proposal is in line with the proposal tabled by Mr Kucina. This is 8. - the proposal, including my proposals 11, 21 and 25, are interrelated. The aim of this draft law and the next draft law is to end education in minority languages in Latvia. I am strongly against it. This is not fair, even because the child is best and always will learn the language of the family. This is not fair because the Latvian People's Front promised the establishment of minority schools. It declared that (please quote): “LTF supports the right of minorities to obtain comprehensive education in their mother tongue, as well as contributes to the establishment and development of national schools in Latvia.” ( End quoted) It is cynical, controversial and amusing that the authors of this draft law in the desire of the Latvian ethnic group to preserve identity and set up a national state do not see segregation, but the desire of minorities to teach children in the family language is called segregation and blame them for being divided into society. Even after the Latvian People's Front, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe or the OSCE recognised in 1996 the right of a person to maintain his identity as uncontested and contrary to what the authors of the draft law under consideration emphasised, the desire for identity did not see segregation and division of society, said that it was education in minority language that was a matter of priority in maintaining and developing the identity of persons belonging to minorities. This led to OSCE recommendations on minority rights in education. A month and a half ago, the Speaker of the Saeima received a letter from the OSCE High Commissioner for National Minorities, who concludes that Latvia departs from the OSCE recommendations in the draft laws under consideration. The Commissioner writes: "Of course, the proposed amendments provide that a person belonging to minorities can learn the language and culture of minorities within the framework of an education programme, and similar opportunities are also offered to students in secondary education, but I am concerned that the amendments would lead to far-reaching restrictions on minority education. This, in turn, would be a complete deviation from international norms and the prevailing consensus in the academic world about the vital importance of language learning, as opposed to language learning." ( End quoted) One of the principles for obtaining education should be the principle of free choice of education language. Children belonging to minorities in the Republic of Latvia can already learn fully Latvian language schools, which implement general education programmes. They - those who want to - should also have access to educational institutions that teach mainly minority languages. However, there is also a recognition among the public of bilinguistic minority education programmes, for which huge resources have been allocated to strengthen the national education system. Teachers and school administrators were trained for the implementation of the Billing Schools. A wealth of methodological materials and study books have been developed. ( The ring of noise.) I propose that, instead of ending the implementation of minority education programmes at pre-school and primary level, the implementation of minority education programmes at pre-school and primary level should be maintained, that it should also continue at secondary level and that, therefore, in another language education can be obtained at state and municipal educational institutions where minority education programmes are implemented, subject to the provisions of Article 41 of this Law. I call for my proposal to be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U126	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U127	Dear people! Dear people listening to this sitting of the Saeima! I invite you to think about one very important detail. And this important detail is as follows. Ask yourself: what schools do rich Latvians send their children? In what schools are rich and very wealthy Latvians sending their children? ( Internouncing call.) If you cannot give yourself an honest answer, I will explain to you - wealthy Latvians, including Latvians from Saeima Members' families, including Latvians from ministerial families and ministerial office families, including rich Latvians with large companies (or not, Mr. Kola?) They send their children to schools... Just like I sent my daughter to a French school where I met the family of Minister Eglīss at the door. from the New Conservative Party. What do I want to say about that? I want to say that: let's stop being two-to-one and pretend! Rich Latvians send their children to schools where children are taught in a foreign language - to schools where children have a basic language other than Latvian. Very many wealthy Latvians send their children to such schools. And proof of it is the children of ministers, proof of it is the children of the family members of the Saeima... and in that spirit. And it's true, it's absolutely true. There is no wealthy family in which children study only in Latvian and do not learn anything else; it is simply not true. Why it happens that you, dear people, want to impose on you that children learn only Latvian, and make them feel like servants, but send their own children to... and not only for schools in the European Union... Send to China, Asia, isn't it, Mr. Cole? ( Interface: “What are you baffling? ” ) Send across the ocean... Is that so? And that's the spirit. ( Internouncing call.) We are not talking only about the European Union, we are talking about looking around ourselves, we need to look at families that are rich to Latvians, ministerial families and parliamentary families, right, Mr. Kola? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U128	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so? ( The ring of noise.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U129	The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U130	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 19, it's against 61, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U131	9. - Mr. Cilevič's proposal. Article 9 of the Rosina Law provides that education in another language may be obtained in educational institutions in which the subjects of general education programmes are implemented in whole or in part in a foreign language in order to ensure the acquisition of the relevant language(s) - not the official language of the European Union, as in the current version; it shall be referred to here in brackets as "the in-depth learning programmes of a foreign language". The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U132	Let us start a debate. The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U133	Dear colleagues, There are two aspects of this proposal. One is of a rather technical nature, because indeed the law contains such a norm, but it does not define such education as a separate programme. And I really don't know why, because the particularities of this programme are serious enough to define it alongside the other educational programmes referred to in the law. The second aspect is more fundamental, since the current provision allows this type of education only if the languages of the European Union are used. I do not see any reason for this, because - what are the languages of the European Union? They have a certain role to play only in the internal proceedings of the institutions of the European Union. And nothing more. And remember Venice Commission opinion on education reform in Latvia! The Venice Commission explicitly noted that there is no legal basis for distinguishing between languages according to their features - whether they are official languages of the European Union or not. I can also remind you of a more fresh document - only yesterday's publication of a decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union on... it is in fact a response to a reference from the Constitutional Court on our case. I call on you to read this decision, this text, and not to trust in the full way this decision is reflected in the media, because the interpretations are very different, they do not objectively reflect the nature of this decision. One important aspect is that the Court of Justice of the European Union has indeed noted that any international agreements, international agreements or other forms of international cooperation may serve as a basis for the recognition of education... Right, in this case, in universities... in other languages as justified. And that they cannot be reduced only to European Union law. That's why here too... we simply misclassify, in law, the same concept of "official languages of the European Union" and the role of this definition in national legislation. I would therefore remind you that, in my view, it would be better, first of all, to define in a purely legal way what is already happening in practice. Secondly, however, to bring the existing rules into line with modern international law. Because now it happens that... Well, about as Mr Gobzem has just said, that in fact education in Latvia can be in very different languages, European Union languages. Well, obviously, you are fighting primarily against Russian. I can understand that is determined by your political conviction... and so on. But I always don't like duality, because in fact such things happen. And if anyone wants children to be educated basically only in English, French or German, it is possible. And the law allows it. But we're hiding it somehow so it can't be seen from the side, or... we pretend that such things do not exist. I call for a simple recognition of the current situation in the law and, in accordance with good legal practice, for this provision to be formulated in such a way that it is clear to everyone - both teachers, school leaders and parents - what they are talking about. And, of course, this provision would be in line with the principles of international law, both with the conclusions of the Venice Commission and with the conclusions of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U134	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U135	In Riga at Kronvalda Park, opposite the Embassy of Ukraine, there is such a small pepperboard. There, obviously, foreigners with a slightly different skin color make kebabs and trade. These sellers do not understand any words in Latvian. They talk to customers in English or Russian. It's happening in Latvia - today, yesterday, tomorrow, will take place tomorrow, the day and the day. It is not the only place; with such kebabines now Riga is full. And at that moment, when you enter a kebabe where you are served not in Latvian but in English, because you don't understand any words in Latvian, you ask yourself - how does it come?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. What exactly is such a kebabet is better and safer for Latvian society than an analogue in another place, such as Lido, where refugees, who also serve you in Russian, are now, as we know, welcomed... who don't know Latvian who serves you in Russian? And in one case as if it's right, and in the other case as if it's right, but if we use Russian in some other place, then it's wrong, because it's going to be something like a politic and it's not the right narrative... and in that spirit. And then I can't understand when it's good to use Russian when - bad; when it's good to use English when it's bad to use English. And it turns out that it is used only for political games, nothing else. In real life, all this doesn't matter. In real life Latvians - thousands, thousands, tens of thousands, in reality even hundreds of thousands of Latvians! - works in companies that don't speak Latvian at all. Because they are servants, I apologize. Because they were not allowed to learn foreign languages at school. Because our education was uncompetitive and is made uncompetitive. Therefore, we are served in Riga by people who speak a foreign language. They leave with all children because there is better education, more competitive education elsewhere. The center of Riga is turning into something completely incomprehensible. And this is the result of such a policy: such policies, implemented by the Unity together with the National Union. Empty from Latvians. And the reason for this is uncompetitive education, which then turns into uncompetitive jobs. Our education system produces, forgive, servants. And it needs to be changed. And the main way it can be changed is that it is nothing new, already Krišjānis Valdemars talked about it. He said, “Latvians, go to the sea!” That's what he meant, learn the language. And I say today from this parliamentary troupe (I am the only one who is not afraid of different - also from SASKANE - from the parliamentary troupe) - Latvians, teach your children the Russian language as well! You're not going to be procremists. Learn to read Pushkin, Dostoevski's original language, let's watch Zvjaginceva's movies. ( Milestones.) Let the children be wise. Teach them languages - four five, as much as possible - so that children can be competitive so that they can have the big companies; though not in Latvia there is a Lithuanian Maxima, but in Lithuania there is some kind of frying and frying company. And you don't have to pretend or smile that you're done cool now... that Latvians are becoming increasingly poor. They are becoming poorer because of this wrong policy. This policy leads our people to the abyss. All that language policy... Please combine the times.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U136	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U137	All that language policy is final... excessively cross-cutting and incorrect. The ordinary mortals are taught nothing in Latvian, the rich are taught in foreign languages according to their ability to pay as much as they can pay. If you can pay for a child EUR 1000 per month, then you already teach something. This is the case with ministers for children and Members for children. Dear people! Dear Latvian society! Latvian language will die if Latvians are poor. Latvians will be poor if they teach only in Latvian. If Latvians teach foreign languages, including Russian, Latvians will become richer. The richer the society will be, the more Latvians will return to Latvia. The more Latvians will return to Latvia, because Latvia will be more Latvian. ( Milestones.) I am speaking the truth, unlike everyone else. I speak the truth because (Minimum: “Why is justice?” )... The difference between me and the New Conservative is that I say the truth, but the New Conservative is twice lying from the tribunal, and then to the school that is taught in a foreign language, we meet with Minister Eglīte - with the children. There you go!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U138	That's enough. That's enough. On Members' political views, not on their children. Mr. Dombrava, you'll talk... Is that enough for one minute? Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U139	Yes, every foreign language is valuable, but this is about some common order in the country. It is not normal that there are still institutions that are actually led by organised crime, where communication is in English. I would like to say thank you to former Minister Ģirgen and Minister Gerhard, who managed to make raids in one of these cantores of organised crime, and this has been eliminated. But when you talk about language in the education system, you will not be supported by your proposals. No matter how small Mr Gobzem comes to talk about your proposals, they will not be supported. We will move towards common education in the national language. We reject this proposal!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U140	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U141	On behalf of the Commission, the proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U142	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - Mr Cilevič's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported. Dear colleagues, it is time for a break. So we will continue to work on this draft law after a break. I invite Members to the Independence Square. We will join us in our ‘Free’ to celebrate the centenary of the Saeima, and then join us in the Saeima lobby with the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, welcome to the photo competition’s ‘Sardze for the most expensive!’ The winners. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name For Inese Voika to read the registration results.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U143	Colleagues! Not registered: Dagmara Beitnere-Le Galla, Anda Čakša, Raivis Dzintars, Marija Golubeva, Armands Krauze, Juris Pūce, Andris Skride, Didzis Šmits and Jānis Urbanovičs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U144	Thank you. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U145	Dear colleagues, I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room. We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. We continue to work on the draft law “Amendments to the Education Act”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Member Linda Medne.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U146	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Mr. Cilevič's proposal. Article 9 of the Rosina Law provides that education in another language may be obtained at educational institutions which implement the content of training and the programme of integrated language learning general education or multilingual education. Given that the inclusion of a single learning method in the law as a form of programme should not be supported, the Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U147	Let us start a debate. The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U148	Dear colleagues, I thank both the rapporteur and the members of the Commission for a rather meaningful debate on this proposal at the Commission's meeting, but I cannot agree in full. On the one hand, the so-called CLIL - such an integrated method of learning language and content... is a method, but it is much more important in this context, where a large proportion or even the majority of pupils belong to minorities and their learning language is not their mother tongue. For example, in Estonia, this method is being used much more widely, and in Latvia, too, there are quite successful examples when this method is being used, but currently it is not in any way agreed in legislation. I am concerned that teachers who want to use this method in the future may conflict with the law because this approach involves the use of several languages over one hour. Therefore, in my view, in order not to prohibit this very effective method at all, it would be useful to provide for it in law. I therefore call on you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U149	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U150	The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U151	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - Mr Cilevič's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 13, against - 46, abstaining. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U152	11. - Member Pimenova's proposal. It is encouraged to supplement the second paragraph of Section 9 of the Law on the Language of Education with a new point, establishing that education in another language can be obtained in minority education institutions, where minority education programmes are implemented, as well as in minority education institutions, with a view to introducing the subject “Latvian learning”. The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U153	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U154	Hello, dear colleagues! Section 9(2)(3) of the Education Law provides that education in another language may be obtained at educational institutions provided for by other laws. In accordance with paragraph 3 of the second paragraph of Article 9, I submitted a proposal - as a Member of the Saeima and as the Head of the Association of Support for Latvian Russian Language Schools. ( Our Society’s short name is LAŠOR.) I propose that education in another language may be obtained in minority education institutions which implement education programmes of minority education institutions in accordance with the law of minority education institutions. Article 14 of the General Convention for the Protection of National Minorities, to which Latvia is bound by the Council of Europe, states: “The Parties undertake, within the framework of their national education systems, to ensure, if there is sufficient demand, that, as far as possible, persons belonging to national minorities have adequate access to the language of the minority or to education in that language in the territory of which persons of their national minorities are historically or in large numbers living.” So it's there. This Article 14 has already been mentioned on several occasions by Members, including Mr Kirštein, who was respected, using both a shield and a sword. I use it as a reference to the basis on which the European Union is based in ethnopolicies regarding the use of minority languages in national education systems. Is the demand for education in minority languages sufficient in Latvia? Results of a 2017 Central Statistical Office survey show that 61.3 percent of residents speak Latvian, while daily Russian-speaking proportion is 37.7 percent, in other languages one percent speak Latvian. As a result, 38.7 percent of Latvian residents speak minority languages at home. 2018/2019 During the school year, more than 27 percent of pupils received, albeit only partially, general education programmes in minority languages. Of these, 96 percent received education in minority education programs in Russian. Parents have a reasonable right to request that the State ensures that they learn first and foremost in the language in which they bring up their children from the taxes they pay. The essence of my proposal is to create, in addition to the existing schools, a new form of education, namely the creation of minority education institutions. They may be established upon receipt of a fixed number of applications by the Cabinet of Ministers or by reorganisation of existing schools. What the law of minority education institutions will be like, the Saeima will still decide, but today I am calling for my proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U155	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U156	I would like to say a little bit about what Mr. Pimenova said. There was one nuance that I had to highlight. It is not the responsibility of the State to provide pupils with training in the language in which they speak to their parents. It has never been, and it will never be. It is the responsibility of the country to provide children with the best education, regardless of the language they speak at home. And what I mean by that. For me, of course, the National Association can try to pick up the tags. I am just thinking of how to give children the best education. And the best education, including Russian children... You don't need to fix Russian kids... I think... and I'm not afraid of the triple to make it happen... I believe that all Russian children in kindergarten should learn Latvian. Most Russian children are already in Latvian kindergarten. All the kids! You don't have to think that Russian children are some kind of behind children. Children with the same abilities as Latvian children. In turn, Latvian children also need to learn other foreign languages. For them to be competitive, at least as competitive as Russian children, because Russian children automatically know about one language more. The problem is that our society, our education system, does not teach children languages. Our children are not competitive, and our education system over these 25-30 years has not only been lowered to the rock, it has made our society a total of servants to others. And this happens at a time when those who decide on education for their children send their children either to pay for their children in the schools where the training takes place (Interviews). ... where learning in foreign languages takes place... number one, or send their children abroad. Rich Latvians and wealthy Russians who live in Latvia send their children to schools where they teach in foreign languages. With very, very rare exceptions, very rare exceptions. And that's the reality of life. If we want the best for our children, then I repeat and repeat (And that has nothing to do with the flags and forefingers. I'm not interested in all that flags and pleasures, I'm interested in the best education for children.) that the best education for children is... teach children languages, teach children Russian, teach English and teach French! Start with it. May children at the age of ninety freely speak all these languages. And then our education system will change. Rather than climb into a platform and say how hard it is to teach children. There's nothing too hard for kids, kids can do everything. Both Latvian children can learn in Russian and Russian children can learn in Latvian. And we need to let them go together, be friends. So that there is no hatred for people who try and parasite each other from the platform. Don't you, Mr. Soul? This will bring us to a prosperous society. But now... Why is that in our society? This autumn we're talking about it... one will not be able to pay it, the other will not be able to pay it, but let us continue spreading flags and spreading hatred. Because there is hatred; because there is a lack of education; because the poor live but the poor live where there is no education. There is no country in the world - no country in the world! - Where in the Ministry of Education the parliamentary secretary would be without higher education, I think. At least he gives the impression that he has no higher education. ( Milestones.) That is what Mr. Pimenova is talking about. You don't have to take Russian kids down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U157	The name to Member Igor Pimenov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U158	Thank you, President. My speech will be far shorter than what Mr Gobzem has just said. Did I say that the state has a duty? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Yes, you said!” ) I said that the state has... the State supported... the State is bound by the provisions of the Convention, which the Republic of Latvia has undertaken to comply with. That, however, is a completely different pattern. I wasn't here... I said something quite different: that Latvia is a smart and skilled country responding to the demand that is broadcast by state-owned persons to those institutions that are really committed to creating an education system. The request may vary. I have described the request that is obvious, which has been recognised. Maybe not recognised in this term and with the decisions of this government, but accepted in all... the history of the independent state of Latvia. And this term, I understand, will cease in two months or one and a half months. The new generation of politicians will find new opportunities to do so in a way that is truly in harmony, not hatred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U159	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U160	Hello, dear colleagues! For reasons of order, I must inform Mr. Pimenova's proposal. The fact that the draft law of minority education institutions and this law, to which the specific proposal refers, have never, by its very nature, been incorporated into the legal system of Latvia, creating contradictions with the norms of the Constitution... the decision of the Central Electoral Commission was adopted accordingly in March 2018, because the specific draft law was not aimed at promoting the common language of the Latvian language as a general public, as also said by the Ombudsman of Latvia in his opinion. At the time, there was an attempt both to collect signatures on this particular draft law on the My Voice portal, and then the Central Electoral Commission had to decide... then, by a decision of the Central Electoral Commission, it was decided to refuse to register this draft law. In no case can the draft law refer to such a law, either legally or legally. It is therefore not clear how such a proposal could have been made at all. I call for this to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U161	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U162	On behalf of the Commission, the proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U163	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. - Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U164	12. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is encouraged to exclude the second paragraph of Article 1 of the draft law, taking into account that these norms are included in the Law on Vocational Education. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U165	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U166	13. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It is envisaged to exclude the third paragraph of Article 1 of the draft law, as was the case with the previous proposal, given that those provisions are to be found in the Professional Education Act. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U167	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U168	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Mr. Cilevič's proposal. It is encouraged to supplement the law with a new article on Education and Diversity by providing that educational institutions introduce learners to other cultures, as well as ensure that learners learn their mother tongue and culture. The proposal also provides that, at the level of general education, one of the minority languages in Latvia must be included in the second foreign language learning offer. The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U169	Let us start a debate. The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U170	Ladies and gentlemen, unlike my previous proposals, this is indeed a conceptual nature. If you read the existing law, then you see that very important basic educational goals and aspects of fundamental values are reflected in the law, but there is no mention of diversity between fundamental values. We often remember that we live in a united Europe where diversity is one of the basic principles that one of the basic aims of education is to help children learn to live in a diverse society. This applies both to language teaching, which was repeatedly referred to by my colleague Gobzem, and to other cultures, to the understanding of lifestyles, to tolerance and so on... a number of aspects. In my view, this is a sufficiently serious objective to be mentioned directly and openly in the law, because I find it hard to imagine that we do not appreciate this aspect of diversity in any way. If it were to be included as a strategic education goal, it would really be very important for Latvian children, regardless of their mother tongue, to increase their competitiveness in all areas, both in Latvia and abroad. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U171	Name to Member Ritvar Janson.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U172	The second paragraph of Article 10.2, as defined in the proposal by Member Cilevič, is not fully in line with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, as it significantly narrows its educational objectives. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child on Educational Purposes mentions that the aim of education is to develop the personality of a child, to develop his or her talents, as well as his or her mental and physical abilities, to develop respect for parents, against his or her cultural identity, language and values, against the national values of the country in which the child lives, and against the national values of his or her country of origin, as well as against other cultures. The second part of the proposal cannot therefore be supported, as this would disproportionately limit the acquisition of the second foreign language.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U173	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U174	I must admit that I have something to compare with in my personal life, and I find it rather strange that we are talking today about how to make Latvian children less competitive. This happens at a time when children will not have access to many lessons - there will no longer be enough swimming pools, sports classes, various groups (parents will simply not be able to afford to pay)... Football, the hockey will not be available, which is so close to the Latvians, because the cost of sports frogs is four times and even five times... and so on. And then I see that its greatest take-up is about how we will make a competitive and rich country, how we will limit children to learn languages. And I have a comparison... Once again, I can take an example with my children. For my child, swimming lessons are now costing EUR 20 per month. In the month. Several times a week visiting swimming. I would like to know how much swimming lessons in Latvia are going to be paid now and how much will be paid in one and a half months, autumn? Knowing how it develops children and how it is needed by children. How much will the kids pay for a hockey or football or gymnastics? Whatever. And we are talking only about how Latvian children can be more competitive. And then we wonder that Latvian families (now not only fathers, but families with all their grandparents) simply move away. I was flying to Latvia yesterday, and my father and his son sat next to me; the son was about nine years old. Prior to that, they had gone to Norway to see how to live in Norway, and now they had gone to England to see where the business was easier to develop, to look at the school, and so on. We talked to her on our way back. And this man from Salacgrīva says to me: “We will also move – the whole family will move away; children will have better education.” The emphasis is better education for children! He says: “I’m already in business as if it’s happening. I work in the heating sector, now all its prices go up, as if everything is going on, but children will have better education there.” And it's the National Associations. and the result of the Unity that thousands of children with families leave Latvia and will never return! Never live!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U175	I would like to remind you, Mr Gobzem, of the proposal 14.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U176	And the same applies to the language. Wise parents - educated, wise parents - will teach their children even more languages, learn different cultures, because an educated, intelligent person is not one who speaks only one language and thinks only in one direction. That is wrong. It's a lag. And this will lead to even greater poverty. That's what I think, and that's not just what I think, that's what every reasonable parent, every person who's still good for his children. Any parent who can afford more to his children will send children to learn as many languages as possible and daily as possible, not as I know, at the Auces Primary School, where English is available, but it does not take place for four months because there is no teacher. And then we are proud to be Latvians with their foreheads and walkways... And, I'm sorry, my ass.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U177	The name to Member Boris Cilevič for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U178	Mr. Janson! I really tried to understand the logic of your objections fairly. It has not been possible, because you yourself quoted the UN Convention, where it is meant that the child should also have the right to get acquainted with his family, his ancestors' culture, and so on. You could also quote another article of the same convention, which deals with the right to their identity. By taking the opportunity to learn minority languages at some level and in some form, I do not think that such standards would be possible at all. As regards the fact that it limits the choice of the second foreign language, I think there are very different options here - both education of interests and the third foreign language in several schools. In any case, this is a question of choice. It is you who want to simply limit this, denying the rights that are expressly enshrined in the convention that you have quoted. I call for my proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U179	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U180	On behalf of the Commission, the proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U181	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 14. - Member Cilevič's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -17, against -54, refrains - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U182	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is encouraged to exclude from the draft law the delegation supported at first reading from the Cabinet of Ministers to define the procedure in which municipalities cooperate to implement minority language and cultural history education programmes. In the Commission, the proposal has been partially supported and incorporated in 16. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U183	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U184	16. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Upon request of representatives of the Ministry of Education and Science, the delegation supported at first reading to the Cabinet of Ministers to determine the order in which minority learners are admitted to these educational programmes shall be excluded. The proposal is supported by the Commission. ( Interface: “Let’s vote! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U185	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 16. - The proposal of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, the law has been approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U186	17. - Mr. Cilevič's proposal. It is encouraged to supplement Article 14 of the Law with a new paragraph, which provides that the Cabinet of Ministers shall determine the methodology for monitoring segregation of educational institutions, as well as develop guidelines for desegregation of educational institutions. The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U187	Let us start a debate. The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U188	Dear colleagues, We have all heard today that the Minister of Education and Science (now absent) has stated that the success of the ministry will certainly ensure that there will be no segregation. I am interested in what basis she does and what exactly she does if no delegation is currently included in the law. If, indeed, the Ministry is aware that the problem exists and if the Ministry is already taking good action in this direction, it is not clear to me why the Ministry should object to the inclusion of such a provision in the law. I have just one explanation: basically nothing is done by the ministry. Well, much could be said about the Ministry - and completely outside the context of the amendments under discussion - but also in this case... if you really believe that there is a danger of segregation, that it is undesirable, then make some commitments and take action to prevent it! What are your reservations? I don't even... We have a strange discussion. I had several proposals, I tried to base them on arguments, with references to international standards, but... I do not hear arguments against. I hear something about the fact that we have too many Russians, that we need to do something to make Russians less, all kinds of historical stories and everything else. But, in my view, the parliamentary debate should look different. Therefore, I have a direct question for both the Ministry and the Coalition: should the Ministry take action to prevent segregation? And if the answer is positive, then why not include this provision in the law? I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U189	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U190	You can see, Mr President, that the Education Act provides for a prohibition of differential treatment. And in the implementation of educational programmes segregation is not allowed already in nature, because implementation of the education process in the state language entails equal treatment of all learners - regardless of their mother tongue. That is why, by supporting such a proposal by the honourable Mr, segregation would be established, which is contrary to the aim of the Education Law, and thus the common identity of a democratic society will not be strengthened. I call for the proposal to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U191	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U192	Colleagues, I have remembered one life event that very clearly describes this debate and explains why this debate, by its very nature, is twofold. That is to say, this event in life that coincides with language learning is as follows. Before I became a politician and a member of the Saeima, I was in law. I remember we were at a client who didn't talk... In Latvia it happened... We were at the customer who spoke Russian. I was there with another gentleman who also talked to this client in Russian rather than in Latvian because he paid for it. The name of this gentleman is Krišjānis Feldman. Now he talks about Latvian from the platform, but when he pays for it, he can speak Russian calmly. That's all about duality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U193	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U194	Dear colleagues, However, it would be useful to talk about the substance and objectives of the proposal. Today, in previous discussions, there have been a number of assumptions, including those from the coalition, that there is still scope for segregation in different areas, when it comes to education. The substance of the proposal is not at all about reducing or strengthening segregation. The essence of the proposal is to formulate what we want, formalise what we want to achieve - to exclude any possibility of segregation in the education system. That's it. No more and no less. What is the risk here for languages or someone else? I do not see it, because segregation is not just an opportunity to learn a language or an impossible one. That's another thing. What an example it is that... Let's say that so far, there has been, and it's still today, that not all children can go to the relevant school, pre-school institution... also on the basis of language, on other principles. This was also the case today, when an example of Riga's microdistricts was mentioned. It's also a form of segregation, by the way. The essence of the proposal is, therefore, that the Cabinet of Ministers nevertheless determines what are the forms and forms of segregation and how to combat it. No more and no less. That is why I do not think about the risk that the ruling coalition is at stake to not support or support this proposal. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U195	The name to Member Boris Cilevič for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U196	Unfortunately, we are once again hearing something that is unacceptable in today's society, especially in Parliament. What is segregation? I did not hear what the coalition Members or the Ministry consider to be segregation. This is about definitions. Mr Feldman, you claim that if everyone is learning the same language, then segregation is not possible. And if we mention segregation in the law, then we create segregation. So if we don't call a case in the right name, of course, you can't say... as it was in one book: if we cancel criminal responsibility for murder, then there's no more murder. And here's the same thing. I'm sorry, but there should be some understanding of the basics. I already mentioned this platform today, I can repeat: in France, everyone is learning the same language. No other options exist or exist, and there are very serious segregation problems, and it will be a fight for both the French Government and the European Commission. I strongly recommend that you read the studies that I mentioned today and that I even showed you from this platform. If you want to, I will send you a link to them; all this is available on the Internet. There are known causes of segregation, all of which have been explored and identified, but it is not so easy to fight against it and to prevent it. This happens to some extent in a natural way. And if we just turn our eyes around and say: no, no, there is no segregation, so the segregation will not disappear anywhere in practice. And that is precisely the policy of our ministry, which is supported by the whole coalition and, therefore, by the whole Conservative Party. It's a stress policy: let's now hide our head in the sand, and then right around it will be very good, everything will be fine. Colleagues Conservatives, I am ashamed of you and of your level of knowledge about international law and practices. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U197	Thank you. The name "Aldim Gobzem" for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U198	Once again, I would like to mention a comparison. For some six months, I think my family has been living in Spain for a little longer. In Spain, the majority do not speak foreign languages, but the smaller part speak foreign languages, which is probably also linked to the education system. And there is a very interesting relation: those who speak foreign languages are both intellectually more developed, more competitive and more successful. And those in Spain... I am not talking about Latvia, I am talking about Spain, which is very far from Russia... Those who speak Spanish, English and Russian in Spain - they earn super-goods at all, live in super-good conditions - live in the great (excellent!) at home, with new cars driving... and so on. Because language is an instrument. It must be understood that language is an instrument by which to earn money. And Latvians also need to make money - not only to encourage flags and attachments, but also to make money. And so that Latvian children can earn money in the future, they need to learn languages. And the more languages Latvian children will learn, the more Latvian language and Latvia as such will flourish, the more they talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U199	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U200	On behalf of the Commission, the proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U201	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 17. - Member Cilevič's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U202	18. - Mr. Cilevič's proposal. It is encouraged to supplement Article 14 of the Law (on the competence of the Cabinet of Ministers) with a new point, which provides that the Cabinet of Ministers shall establish criteria and procedures for ensuring the acquisition of the native language of learners within the framework of pre-school and general education programme. In the Commission, the 18th proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U203	Let us start a debate. The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U204	Dear colleagues, Again, unfortunately, I have to talk about duality. You have just voted to exclude Article 16. So you claim... I read your answers to all international institutions. You claim that Latvia will fully meet the requirements of both the Satversme and international standards; that children will be given the opportunity to preserve their identity... and so on... at the level of education of interest... and so on, but all this is only at the level of the declaration. In this respect too, the Ministry does not want to make any commitments, no standards for the language of minorities, no standards for the mother tongue. So I'm sorry, how much can you lie so openly?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, If you really want to achieve a situation where minority languages are not delivered at all, then make it clear. Now, what are you always pretending to lied to international institutions? You think that all Latvians read only your right media, only in Latvian? Now there are people who have direct contact with international institutions, there are non-governmental organisations... And what you're just gonna hide is that Latvia does not do anything like it should be a country that actually respects its international obligations and, in the end, its own Constitution. And tell me openly, yes, it's a purely family question, so that there's no illusions for anyone. If you really want to implement Mr Kirštein's policy and make it possible for as many people as possible who have an important quality education for their children to maintain their identity, to leave Latvia, you will achieve it. Yes, of course. And it's already happening. And you are not interested that young, educated, well-earned parents and children leave Latvia. No, you... The most important thing is that Mr Kirštein's programme will indeed be fulfilled is that the Latvian share in Latvia will increase - regardless of the total population will decrease. Well, okay. But I really don't mind watching you pretending to be and seeing that duality. If you are really prepared to ensure that minority languages are provided at least at the level of education of interest, then you must make such a commitment. These are not only your opportunities, but also your responsibility. You even give up on that. Well, you don't have to lie. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U205	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U206	On behalf of the Commission, the proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U207	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 18. - Member Cilevič's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U208	19. - Member Kucin's proposal. It is encouraged to supplement Section 17, Part Three, Paragraph 3 of the Law on Municipal Competence in Education by providing that the municipality “sets out the procedure for financing the educational institutions under its authority from the budget, taking into account that the educational institutions are financed according to sufficient demand of parents in the relevant educational programme”. The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U209	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Kucin.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U210	Colleagues! My previous proposal was about the system or the "demand-supply" principle. Here, however, I propose establishing a mechanism to achieve this. The proposal requires the municipality, which is the founder of the educational establishment, to seek out the views of parents and the actual demand for education programmes, in order to ensure that these programmes are implemented in a sound and appropriate way in the future. And I propose to strengthen in the law the fact that the municipality determines the procedure by which the educational institutions under its authority are to be financed from the budget, taking into account that the educational institutions are financed according to a sufficient demand from parents for a specific educational programme, including minority programmes. The municipality shall regularly clarify the views of parents of children about the quality of implementation of existing pre-school and general education programmes, as well as the demand for types of educational programmes to be implemented by each educational institution, establish criteria for adequacy of demand and ensure the implementation of these programmes accordingly. The municipality is entitled to set a minimum number of applicants for the start of the education programme as well as to offer another institution nearby for the implementation of this education programme. Colleagues, in support of this proposal, we will implement the emphasis in many studies and speeches on the need to involve parents as much as possible in the design and operation of the education system, as well as on the mechanism by which the municipality decides to provide education in the administrative area in question so that children with different mother tongues - and above all, according to the choice of parents - have equal access to educational institutions. By giving parents the opportunity to express their views and to be truly involved in children's education, we will, firstly, increase their confidence in the education system; secondly, let us motivate parents to cooperate (it is to everyone that the best result is achieved when all the parties work together); thirdly, colleagues, let us finally depoliticise the language issue and people will be able to get what they really want. They will have expressed their own wishes, and the law will set out a clear mechanism for how they can be met in real terms. The opportunity to assess and decide what programmes their child will learn will encourage parents to participate in the education process. Please support my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U211	Name of Minister of Education and Science Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U212	Good afternoon, honourable Members and honourable Members! The parents' opinion is already clarified both in the annual self-assessment process of the educational institution and during accreditation, implementing all parents' questionnaires, as well as informing about accreditation and allowing the commission to submit its opinion on the education process. Article 31 of the Education Law establishes the composition of the Board of the Education Institution; it also includes parents of the learners, and provides that the Board of the Education Institution has representatives of the parents in the majority. This Board shall act in accordance with the regulatory act governing the Board of the Education Institution which shall be issued by the Board itself in agreement with the Head of the Education Institution. The Education Law also provides that parents have the right to participate in the development of the learning process and in the activities and council of the educational institution. Therefore, the Ministry believes that clarification of parents' opinion is an integral part of the activities of the educational institution already, but the proposal, which behind clarification of parents' opinion, is actually trying to achieve that minority programmes could still be established at the request of a certain group, the composition of the Saeima has already voted against.... I call for this proposal to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U213	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U214	Madam Minister, Dear Members, Colleagues Kucina's proposal makes it clear that local authorities would be obliged to study the attitude of parents towards education in minority languages. Without this amendment, it will only be based on the good will of the municipality. But let's assume that 75-80 percent of Latvians and 15-20 percent of Gentiles live in some municipality. For example, in Ogre. 35 thousand inhabitants live in Ogres district; Russians, according to the Office of Citizenship and Migration Affairs - over five thousand. This means that around 10-15 percent of the students there are non-Latvians too. Can you now tell me that Ogre Municipality is willing to decide on the education of interests? No, it's a saying. At best, the municipality gives you an opportunity to sing somewhere in the cultural house once a week... or ballalaic. That's it! There will be no optional classes, because a municipality with 23 members... In one municipality, which is headed by, among other things, the National Association, there are no non-nationals; there are neither SAID, nor Latvian Russian Union nor. What does that mean? This means that only those municipalities that have members of the opposition will have education for minority children and the rest will not. I therefore call for support for Member Kucin's proposal and for local authorities to carry out this training. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U215	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U216	The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U217	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 19. - Member Cucin's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U218	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Kucin's proposal. It is encouraged to exclude the addition of the Section 30 “Head of an Education Institution” supported at first reading with the seventh part – about the action in case the State Language Centre finds that the Head of an Education Institution does not use the state language to the extent necessary for the performance of professional and professional duties. The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U219	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Kucin.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U220	Colleagues! There is no doubt that both the heads of the educational institution and the educators need to know the state language. However, I am confused, and I do not understand the rule that stipulates (I will quote): “... an official, regardless of whether a decision is being appealed, is obliged to inform the employer of the head of the educational institution immediately of the decision taken. The employer of the head of an educational establishment shall ensure that the manager of the educational establishment concerned’... or an educator... ‘shall be suspended in the performance of their duties...’. If an employee is willing to defend his rights and appeal against the decision of the official of the State Language Centre, I believe that he has the right to continue working until the decision taken has become indisputable. And human rights must be higher than any official's decision. The official is also a human being, and the possibility of subjective factors that can actually affect him when making a decision should not be excluded. I am convinced that when deciding on the fate of a person - whether or not to be in a given post - it must not be possible even to make the least mistakes. I will give you one concrete example. A few months ago, after testing the State Language Centre in one of the sports schools in Latgale, coaches - coaches who raised European champions and who had the Latvian national anthem heard many times in honour of their work were dismissed from work! Colleagues! How many of the Members here can be proud that the anthem of our country was in honour of their work? Yes, the educator needs to know the state language, there is no doubt, but what you think is better - that the children are employed by the educator, the educator of his position, who may need to improve the knowledge of the language slightly, or that the child or a whole school does not have a teacher at all? Please support my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U221	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U222	The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U223	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 20. - Mr Kucin! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 17, 60, abstains. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U224	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Pimenova's proposal. It is encouraged to exclude Article 5 of the draft law, which provides for the exclusion of the specific type of education programmes referred to in Article 38 of the law, namely minority education programmes. The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U225	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U226	Dear colleagues, There are three conditions for maintaining and developing minority education programmes. First of all, the number of persons belonging to Latvian minorities is huge (I already tell you about this today). Secondly, Latvia is bound by the Council of Europe Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities. Conclusion on the basis of the system of protection of minorities... The Convention defines: ‘... a plural and truly democratic society must not only respect the ethnic, cultural, linguistic and religious identity of each national minority, but also create appropriate conditions for the disclosure, preservation and development of that identity.’ ( End quoted) Thirdly, the views of world experts included in the recommendations of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe point to the importance of the use of minority languages in the education of persons belonging to minorities. The Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe has recognised the right of a person to maintain his identity indisputable and, contrary to what the authors of the draft law under consideration stress, the desire for identity does not see a threat, but states that it is education in minority language that is a matter of priority in maintaining and developing the identity of persons belonging to minorities. Because of the so-called circumstances, taking into account the large number of persons belonging to minorities... and in order to maintain traditions and ensure that the recommendations on minority rights in education set out in international instruments are implemented, I propose that they be maintained and strengthened as a specific form of education programme, using existing infrastructure and administration, specialists and teaching staff from higher education institutions, as well as the enormous methodological experience. Please support my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U227	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U228	The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U229	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 21. - Member Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U230	22. - Member Kucin's proposal. Identical to proposal 21. This proposal was not supported by the Commission either.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U231	So it is identical, it is not put to the vote, but the debate is possible. Name to Member Edgar Kucin.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U232	Colleagues! By abandoning the current system of binary education, it will be difficult to predict the quality of pupils' education and to determine the level of education as a service as such, as the proposed amendments provide for a total ban on learning in the mother tongue of minorities. It is the model of linguistic education, which provides an opportunity to learn minority languages, even from the point of view of the National Union, that has been successfully implemented in the Latvian education system since 2004 and is optimal... Percentage... in minority schools - this is exactly a quote from the alternative bill tabled by the National Union. And it is not clear why the authors of the draft law offer - contrary to the positive assessment of the existing legal provisions governing the percentage of linguistic education in minority programmes - to completely exclude this type of education from the common system. Why should successful ones be destroyed? We can want to achieve everything at the impact and make each educational institution implement education programmes in only the state language today. But, colleagues, let us be honest: it is not real. This will only create frustration, stress and in no way increase public trust and confidence in the legislators. I believe that we should give time to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Education and Science to implement new training projects for educators, to organise the system of teachers' remuneration and to fight for the promised increase in salary every year in protest actions. According to scientific literature, when a child learns a language, it is very important to ensure that he or she knows it at the level of his or her mother’s language. Today, it is difficult to ensure this in the circumstances of lack of staff. Colleagues, we cannot act imprudently, ignoring the best interests of children, with the only unhindered aim of destroying education in Russian. We must not allow experiments with our children. Think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U233	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U234	In fact, it would be fair to say from this troupe that the change in the education programme is due to the fact that it is impossible to maintain linguistic education, namely that we simply cannot afford two education systems in material terms. That would be a fair answer for all Latvian citizens, and it should start with it. So only basic education provided by the state is in the same language, because the state can no longer afford, but... and that “but” is the most important. ‘ But” is the case: Latvia should provide teachers who teach in different languages – and not only in European Union languages. This should address their problem. And then it would be a fair discussion, not a debate... There's one, I don't know, the predecessors, there's the other procremists, and then they're talking to each other. It's not fruitful, and it's actually just for the most silly part of the voters... the format of the statement. If we are talking about children's education, languages are a very important part of children's education. That's all about it. And it is not said here that if we move to the Latvian language everything will be in Latvia, then Latvia will flourish. No, we have to look statistically at how Latvia has flourished from the moment when the only Latvian language in Latvia is Latvian. Has the number of Latvians increased in Latvia? I would like to highlight these statistics in particular. I do not doubt that Latvian needs to have the state language – do not give God that it would not be the state language! - but I want people to listen to this important detail: the number of Latvians has decreased since there was only Latvian as a state language in Latvia. And the problem is not that “we will speak only Latvian and then Latvia will flourish”; the problem is that our country is getting poorer and the number of Latvians is therefore decreasing. The number of Latvians is falling because of poverty, because education is getting worse and worse for us - this is the reason. That's what I've been talking about all the time in the room. The worse education, the greater poverty. The more poverty, the more Latvians leave. They don't see the future for their children. Educated Latvians - a very large number of educated Latvians! - sees the future for their children in Latvia. Thousands, tens of thousands, even hundreds of thousands of Latvians have already left Latvia and continue to leave precisely because they do not see the future of their children in Latvia. They do not see good education in Latvia, they do not see that they will be able to provide their children with everything necessary for a successful life and development. And this is directly related to the fact that the education system is viewed from the wrong side. If someone believes that our education will flourish and that Latvian will flourish when we strengthen something in this way - no! On the contrary: we should allow our children to become richer - language richer. They should become richer with the experience that they can go to different countries for public money, not only to the West, but also to the East - to China... and in that spirit. And then Latvia will flourish. Then Latvians will return to Latvia. Not as it is now. The process of self-destruction of our society is under way. Do you not see that more and more people of other skin colors, people of other religions are entering Latvia? You don't see that? I see it! You don't see Latvians leaving? I see it! And it is directly linked to the education system. Please combine the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U235	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U236	This is not just a story of a difficult economic period now. It is a story that Latvian families cannot see the future in Latvia. We can look at statistics - fewer children are born in Latvia, because parents do not see the future for children in Latvia. And if children are born, what do they do? They're leaving. A big question - why don't these Latvians go back? Because they don't see the future in Latvia. They don't see what you can do here. They don't see what children could do here in Latvia - Latvian children. They stay in England, they stay in Ireland, Germany, Norway, Sweden - in different countries, they don't go back. They don't come because we have a catastrophic education system, where the only thing they teach is about the temples. And that's not right. ( Internouncing call.) Latvia will flourish only if all the funds that Latvia has are invested in children's education and if every child learns - already in grades 1, 2 will learn! - at least two foreign languages, including (including!) Russian as well. And it's related to prosperity, to the flourishing of the state. These are inextricably linked matters. If you don't see that Latvia is falling into increasing poverty... We don't compare anymore with... even Romania no longer compares us. We are the poorest country in Europe and are becoming increasingly poor, and let's only crave out with pride, and let us be proud that we are Latvians... with the bare bottom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U237	Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U238	Reflecting on what Mr. Gobzem said. It's short. Yes, linguistic training requires additional funding, it is true. But this money has already been invested in the Latvian education system since 1999. Every teacher at school, every minority education school, the director of the institution has been trained on several occasions in different courses. Now this capital is simply thrown out as a thing that the Republic of Latvia no longer needs. That is not right. That is first. Secondly. Yes, the cohesion of society really costs money. That is why minority education systems exist in the Member States of the European Union. National minority schools exist in Romania, Slovakia, Hungary, Northern Italy, Northern Germany, South Denmark. I only refer to countries where schools have really been set up and where great, important achievements have been achieved. And, thirdly, what I wanted to say. I'll do it again. In Latvia 37 percent of the population speak minority languages at home. This is not just a complement to the education system or another system plus. These people are paying taxes. They have long earned teaching their children in the language they speak in their families. Thus, to name minority education as a burden for the Latvian education system or the second system is quite wrong. It is an organic part of Latvian education system. That is what it is, and I will work and do everything to keep it going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U239	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so? The proposal is not put to the vote, I would remind you again.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U240	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Mr. Cilevič's proposal. The list of specific types of educational programmes referred to in the second paragraph of Article 38 of the draft law, entitled ‘Types of education’, is encouraged to be supplemented by a new item ‘In-depth learning programmes for foreign languages’. The proposal is not supported by the Commission. ( Interface: “Let’s vote! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U241	Please call me! We will vote in favour 23. - Member Cilevič's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 17, for - 60, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U242	24. - Mr. Cilevič's proposal. The list of specific types of educational programme referred to in the second paragraph of Article 38 of the draft law, entitled ‘Types of education’, with a new item ‘multilingual programmes’, is encouraged. The proposal is not supported by the Commission. ( Interface: “Let’s vote! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U243	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 24. - Member Cilevič's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 19, it's against 58, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U244	25. - Member Pimenova's proposal. It is encouraging to refer to Article 41 of the draft law on minority education programmes. In view of the fact that the draft law at first reading provides for the exclusion of Article 41, the Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U245	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U246	Continuing the discussion. This proposal is directly related to 21. - my proposal for maintaining minority education programmes. This applies to the existing Article 41, which describes the key features of the minority education programme, including the use of languages of instruction. I propose not to use the percentage to determine the amount of the study content in the state language, but to allow the Ministry of Education and Science to choose the subjects to be studied in the state language according to the institution's administrative and methodological abilities to ensure the results of higher education by determining the proportionate amount of the study content in the state language. Therefore, I propose that Article 41 of the law be maintained, entitled ‘Thinks of minority education’, exclude parts 1.1 and 1.2 which determine the content of public-language learning in percentage terms, and add a new part to the article: ‘The Ministry of Education and Science defines five subjects of minority education to be studied in the national language within nine years of implementation of minority primary education programmes and within three years of implementation of minority secondary education programmes.’ Such an approach in the definition of learning content in Latvian will be correct; it really corresponds to the resources that exist in each particular educational institution, not somehow put on “top” from the governing institution. In my view, this proposal is quite pragmatic. I call on Members to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U247	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U248	First of all, this power deprives the parents of their children of their opportunity to earn money. The parents of the children... one is, as they say, sent to profit abroad, then a pandemic is coming, children are deprived of the possibility of being active in their own way of life, not being able to play sports... Sport is taken away, and everything else is taken away. The next step is that children are actually deprived of intellectual development. It's prohibited. It's put in some narrow-- very narrow rails. It's about to be autumn, stay cold, the children will actually be taken away from everything, because the parents of the children will not be able to afford anything. And then we will want to talk about a prosperous Latvia, where we are all proud Latvians. You're proud of what? That our children are uncompetitive? And I want to compare that for many years in many political campaigns, we have been discussing on television that we would like Latvia to flourish like Scandinavia or Singapore. I would remind you that Singapore was poorer than Latvia and became rich when it started teaching children language at school, in reality the entire education system went to a foreign language, to English, all children had to learn English. Internationally. To make children competitive. In modern times, children can only be made competitive if the child, either miraculously or miraculously, has been able to be very talented or only rich parents who can send their children somewhere. Members can send their children to good schools, ministers can send their children to good schools, but a child born in a small town or village - he has a rather hopeless situation. He can learn only in Latvian, he can learn only about the references, and everything. And that's it. In principle, his chances in life are automatically cut off at the beginning. I'm sorry. And I can compare again. In fact, any question about education can be compared to the approach taken in one country or another in relation to their children. Sports, languages, everything else. Everything is available and twice cheaper. Double cost compared to Latvia. Why? Because children are taking care of, because I understand that investment in children is an investment in the future of the country. What is decided today is, in fact, not an investment in the future of children, not an investment in Latvia. Why is it that the children of ministers and Members go to other countries to study? Why is it good education in countries other than Latvia? In other countries do not teach in Latvian, by the way. They grow up and go to Oxford, Cambridge, Yale, or any university, and go to other countries. And then they don't need Latvian anymore, then it turns out that they can learn other languages. It turns out that there is better education than there is in Latvia. Why do wealthy parents not want their children to stay in Latvia? Because they're still the best for their kids. And that's what we're talking about today. And today, for political purposes, appealing to the least educated part of society, to the part of society that really does not want to be good for Latvia, but that acts only after some instincts that do not think about it... attempts are made to make policies at the expense of children, at the expense of the future of our country. And then it is no wonder that children are no longer born in Latvia, because there is no motivation for children to be born in Latvia. ( The utterance: “Time! ”) ) I would like you to unite me...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U249	The times of debate are being brought together, but Mr Gobzem, please speak on proposal 25.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U250	And the proposal is about languages. The proposal is about languages, and I still...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U251	The proposal is about minority education programmes.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U252	And my belief - my deepest belief - is that all children in Latvia must learn not only in Latvian, but in all children... and I will climb 57 times in the tribunal and say that all children in Latvia must learn Latvian, Russian, English and, preferably, also French. And all the kids... If I had that opportunity, all children in Class 1 would learn all things in that language. I hire all the best teachers from all over the world so that children have the best education. This is the best long-term investment that the country can have at all. The best lecturers you can find are both lecturers in Russian and lecturers in English. And you need to tell me not about the preferences, but how to make business... successful people to have better education for children. I'd do it. I see the future of Latvia, I see that there are rich people in Latvia, and rich people can only be educated, intelligent people who are not with a narrow gem and a narrow view. And the only elite who obviously can maintain this coalition is one who has nothing to think with, who needs a very narrow view of life. I call on our society... It is clear that the vote here today will be as it will be, but I call on the public to listen to the fact that all my speeches about languages today are about the future of our children, about the opportunities of our children, about the opportunities of Latvian children. That's it. I call for us not to be - cheaply not to resort - on the traps set out by the National Alliance and the Alliance of Unity Power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U253	Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U254	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, If this is the debate apple, most importantly the central one, about language learning and children, we must probably talk about the future from today's data. If we look at the latest centralized exams, we can see that average results: in English - 69 percent, in Latvian - 52 percent. We see that there are problems with the Latvian language in general. Out of 14 thousand students (i.e., about compulsory exams in a foreign language) 12 034 students chose to pass the exam in English. And there I mention the results - 70 percent, which I think is very respectable and a good result - 70 percent! - whereas from 14 thousand Russian was chosen 1538. So the young people themselves understand the perspective of Russian and English. And there is also now an opportunity to learn foreign languages in general education. If we are talking about minorities - I understand this is the main issue - no one is forbiding to learn the native language of minority programmes, it is not forbidden anywhere, it continues. I would like to remind you that the minority council also supports the gradual transition to education in the state language, and I understand that we are gradually being defined here too. Then we simply say that pain is for each other's political power precisely about the Russian language's presence in the national education system, because the data are not lying. Young people already choose. And its possibilities to learn are, and centralized exams very clearly and lightly show - from 14 thousand to 12 thousand (this is an absolute majority) choose to pass the exam in English. And results are much better than in Latvian. So what do we have in the Constitution, Mr. Gobzem? For you, the Constitution is like a... I don't know, toilet paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U255	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U256	The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U257	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 25. - Member Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -17, against -63, refrains - not. The proposal is not supported. Dear colleagues, it's time for a break. ( Singings: “Don’t break! ” ) Interruption for 10 minutes. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Feldmans: ‘10 minutes’. ) Dear colleagues, time for break. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name Inese Voika to report the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U258	Colleagues! Not registered: Dagmara Beitnere-Le Galla, Boriss Cilevičs, Anda Čakša, Ilmārs Dūritis, Raivis Dzintars, Janina Jalinska, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Andrejs Clementyevs, Armands Krauze, Igors Pimenovs... Igors Pimenovs is, Karina Sprūde, Didzis Šmits and Lubova Švecova. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U259	Colleagues, break 10 minutes. I repeat: break 10 minutes - by 15.10 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U260	Dear colleagues, I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room. Let's keep working after the break. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Education Act”, second reading. On behalf of the commission responsible, Member Linda Medne.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U261	26. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. We offer to express the new article of the law, supported at first reading, on minority education content learning as a new article on minority languages and cultural history education programs, which provides an opportunity for the municipality to acquire such a program. In the Commission, the proposal is partly supported and included 27. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U262	Members agree. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Please call us! To be put to the vote on 26. - The proposal submitted by the Legal Bureau, which has been partly supported! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 1, against - 25, refraining from - 11. There's no quorum. Nothing to do, break 10 minutes. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U263	Dear colleagues, On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Education Law”, second reading. On behalf of the commission responsible, Member Linda Medne.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U264	So, again. 26. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. We offer to express the new article of the law, supported at first reading, on the learning of minority education content as a new article – “Education programmes of minority languages and cultural history interests”, which provides that the municipality provides an opportunity to learn such programme. In the Commission, the proposal is partly supported and included 27. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U265	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U266	27. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Clarifying 26. - The proposal put forward by the Legal Bureau and supported by the wording of the first reading, suggests adding a new Article 47.3 "Educating programmes for minority languages and cultural and historical interests". The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U267	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U268	28. - Mr. Cilevič's proposal. It is proposed to add a new article on Foreign Language Advanced Learning Programmes. The proposal is not supported. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U269	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 28. - Member Cilevič's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 17, 58, abstaining. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U270	29. - Mr. Cilevič's proposal. Supports the addition of a new article on the Multilingual Education Programme to the law. This proposal is not supported by the Commission either. ( Interface: “Let’s vote! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U271	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 29. - Member Cilevič's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U272	30. - Member Kucin's proposal. Articles 8 and 9 of the draft law, supported at first reading, which amends Article 48 of the law on the right to work as a teacher and Article 50 on restrictions on working as a teacher, are encouraged to be excluded in the case of situations where the teacher does not use the state language to the extent necessary for the performance of his professional and professional duties. In the Commission, the proposal to exclude the relevant articles of the draft law is not supported. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U273	Please call me! We will vote for 30. - Mr Kucin! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U274	31. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. This proposal calls for the addition of Article 48 with the eighth and ninth paragraphs, by stating that, following a decision of the State Language Centre on the imposition of penalties in the case of the said situation, the employer shall enter an entry in the Register of Pedagogues concerning the prohibition of the appointment of a teacher. The ninth part, in turn, provides: if a teacher submits a decision on the result of a person’s state language proficiency check after leaving the post of teacher or the decision of the State Language Centre has been revoked, the employer shall cancel the entry in the Register of Education on the prohibition of taking up the post of teacher. The proposal is supported by the Commission. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U275	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 31. - the committee's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 65, it's against - 15, it's not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U276	32. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is encouraged to exclude Article 9 of the draft law, which provides for a new wording of Paragraph 50(3) of the law on restrictions to work as a teacher. The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U277	Members (Interface: “Vote!” )... wishes to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 32. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 18, 58, abstaining. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U278	33. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. It is proposed to clarify Article 9 of the draft law and to state in the relevant wording paragraph 3 of the first paragraph of Article 50 of the law restrictions on working as a teacher. The wording of the proposal has been clarified as a result of the discussions, so proposal 32 has been partly supported and included in the Commission 34. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U279	Proposal No 33
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U280	Yeah, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U281	This is partly supported. Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U282	34. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. The wording proposed by the Ministry in the above-mentioned proposal is specified in Article 50, Paragraph 1, paragraph 3 of the Law on Restrictions on Working as a Teacher. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U283	Members (Interface: “Vote!” )... Please call me! To be put to the vote on 34. - The proposal submitted by the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U284	35. - Proposal by Members Papule, Golubeva, Dombrovskis, Dūrīša, Skrides, Rukšāne-Šchipčinskas and Bikše. It is encouraged to supplement Article 55 of the Law “Educationable Rights” with a new point, which states that the learner has the right to receive “edagogically adaptable support for the development of communication competence”. The Commission was consulted on the proposal and a compromise solution was found to complement the general education framework. The proposal has therefore not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U285	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U286	Dear President of the Saeima. Colleagues! However, I will try to call on you to support this proposal. And why? Because this proposal is good for children, it talks about children's rights in education. What, then, is the teaching aid, including the development of communication competences? A little light theories. The design of an adaptive learning model is learning that is able to offer appropriate methods and approaches to children's needs, which can be learned through evaluation and monitoring both before, during and after the learning process. This approach therefore enriches the capacity of children. Why? Because the learning process is inclusive. This type of aid does not require additional funding, since it is balanced and included in the normal training process, in normal training hours, without isolation or otherwise... working separately with a child. Consequently, these trainings are effective and suitable for children’s needs. Support may take different forms: appropriate learning materials, friendly learning environment, school management participation, and it is particularly important to note that this approach is important for children when learning maths and reading skills. Reading literacy is, as we know, the basis for learning many subjects. Why else would it be important? First of all, because this would provide a chance for every student and every teacher to be able to adapt to the needs of the child, which is in line with the approach of competences. I would say that such an adaptive approach or model or pedagogically adaptive support is very, very important especially in Class 1 and, of course, also in pre-school. Secondly, why I call for support - because it would apply to every child, regardless of the experience of previous language use or learning experience, so to every child who needs such support. And thirdly, it would be a message for parents that their children's teaching is modern, that access and the environment at school are good, so children can feel good because they know that they will receive support, especially in the early stages, within a certain time frame, and everyone will know that the teaching approach meets the requirements of the 21st century. The result is individual support based on the needs of the child, previous knowledge and skills. Children learn quickly, learn at the right time, do not increase their workload, and adapt to the learning process. I understand that there is a need to apply teaching material and, as we know, there is no teaching material, but it would be a message for parents that teachers will still find an opportunity, find a repository and apply. I understand that such training is related to the use of technology, I understand that the state programme Computer for every child is delayed, as much is already delayed at the Ministry of Education and Science, and yet, if you support such a proposal, parents will be told that the Ministry of Education and Science will respect children's rights. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U287	Name of Minister of Education and Science Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U288	Hello, honourable Members of the Saeima! I very much call on you, however, not to support this proposal, given that we have also proposed, on the part of the Saeima, a compromise by the Ministry, which is in fact already included in the amendments to the General Education Act, which I hope will be able to be examined by the Saeima today. But when we talk about teaching and adaptive support, after receiving this proposal, we consulted with professors of the University of Latvia, as well as other experts on issues of special inclusive education. In fact, its common message from education professionals, from an academic environment, is that such a term of "pedagogically adaptive support" comes from... and is only found in the Russian Federation... the materials used. To illustrate what this idea really means, which is, of course, purely and only with good intentions, would mean, in fact, that when, for example, the teacher comes to an educational establishment at an examination and finds that the Russian language, for example, is used in the course of the course, he could be under the pretext of a teaching aid. Given that such a term is not used, it is not known, we have proposed both to express the third part of Section 20 of the General Education Law in a new version, and to supplement Article 30 with an obligation to provide individualised support measures for pupils who are not Latvian. I call on Members to be extremely careful and not to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U289	Name to Member Arvil Asheraden.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U290	Hello, dear colleagues! In the Commission, we took very careful note of the proposals put forward by Mrs Papule and colleagues to this law and found that these proposals are significant, but they concern a completely different law, so we incorporated these amendments into the second draft law, that is, the draft law on Amendments to the General Education Law, which we will vote on afterwards, and that is, accordingly, the proposals 7 and 9, which fully address this issue. In so far as I call for this proposal not to be supported, but to support those solutions that have been incorporated into the next draft law - Amendments to the General Education Law - without denying for a moment that support for children is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U291	The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U292	Hello, colleagues! As the Chair of the committee responsible has just said, these proposals tabled by Member Papule and several more Members, which are essentially about making it useful for any learner who has come to an educational establishment to spend time there instead of spending time... and because of the lack of this communication competence, it would not be possible for him to learn the content of education - the case was discussed quite thoroughly at the meeting of the committee. The question of the truth is whether the solution that is now being proposed - to include the relevant rules only in the General Education Act - is sufficient, because the General Education Act, of course, refers to general education, but we still have vocational education, we have higher education, we also have pre-school education, which is largely relevant to general education, but there are still sections that are only relevant to education law. Why would I perhaps be inclined to say that we should, however, also duplicate these norms in the Education Act - those that will be in the General Education Act? This is directly related to the geopolitical situation, to the fact that we currently have these Ukrainian children, they are also in universities where this competence, communication competence, and ensuring that they can enter into the study process, because at the same time we have decided that the study process must take place in the state language. How do you match it all? In my opinion, there is no double collapse, and if we support this provision, we will not damage anything. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U293	Name to Member Karl Shadursky.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U294	Dear colleagues, I have no doubt that this proposal is professionally well thought out. And, as Mrs Papule said, this could be Class 1. As you can see, this proposal does not say anything about Class 1. So there could be an idea here about this support at any stage of education, Mr. Wuzan has already said - in vocational education, in higher education. If you remember, far back in 2004, amendments to the legislation governing education came into force, which laid down the two-way education and the percentage of how these two-way classes should be managed at each educational stage. The only misfortune that it left open the door to those who are not united society is not Latvian friends. And when the controlling institution - the State Service of Quality of Education - came to school in response to that or any other complaint, which implemented the minority education program, the lesson took place in Russian and said to them: “We already, of course, have a percentage of 60 to 40, but today, when you came, we have that part of 40 percent.” If we support such a proposal, then the same thing will continue, only the controlling person will be told: "It is today that we are providing educationally adaptable support." So this proposal is well thought of, but it opens the door for those who think bad. I would therefore like to call for this proposal not to be supported, but for what has been developed by the Commission and which, in my opinion, has been very successfully incorporated into the relevant proposals for the General Education Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U295	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U296	Today, there is a tendency here - to put simple things in very complicated words and to maximum extent so that those who watch live do not understand what they are talking about. I can tell you what this is about. In this proposal, it is the back door so that it can actually continue to be taught in Russian and this cannot be legally established by the control authorities. ( Milestones.) And I have to agree with what Mr Shadursky said. And the fact that Evia Papule has presented it does not surprise me at all. I call on you to stick to the decision made by the committee and to avoid such a back door in the law. I understand that the next draft law already has a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U297	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so? The debate has already been closed.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U298	This proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U299	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 35. - the proposal tabled by Members Papule, Golubeva, Dombrovskis, Dūrīša, Skrides, Rukšāne-Šchipčinskas and Bikše! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ( The utterances are: “Ooo! ” Thank you very much. The proposal is supported. ( Interface: Congratulations, congratulations.) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U300	36. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Rewords Article 10 of the draft law. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U301	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U302	I would like to call on the ruling coalition to stop raging one another, otherwise there will still be a very serious crisis in the country, that you will not be able to break down issues relating to education for children and to agree on all issues so that children have a better education. But if serious, then it is quite sad to see how the amendments to the Education Law are being examined today, because these amendments to the Education Law are not in the interests of us, Latvia, children. We are not talking about essential issues; we are actually only deciding on matters that are used for political, selfish purposes, both on one flank and on the other.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U303	Mr Gobzem, please for 36. - The Legal Bureau's proposal, please.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U304	This is also in favour of this proposal. And also the Legal Office... Statistics...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U305	For minority education programmes, please.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U306	And in this context... In this context, however, I call for the last proposals to focus on the best interests of children themselves, not just on the fight between political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U307	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U308	This proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U309	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 36. - Saeima Legal Bureau's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U310	37. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. In the light of the votes on the amendments contained in the draft law, the points of the transitional provisions supported by the draft law at first reading are specified, specifying the references. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U311	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U312	38. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It is encouraged to exclude point 104 of the transitional provisions at first reading. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U313	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U314	39. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. It is encouraged to supplement the transitional provisions of the law by point 106 (with regard to amendments to Article 50 (3) of the law on restrictions on working as a teacher). The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U315	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U316	40. - Member Pimenova's proposal. It is encouraged to supplement the transitional provisions of the law with a point that would instruct the Cabinet of Ministers to prepare and submit to the Saeima a draft law on minority education institutions by 1 November 2022. The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U317	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U318	Dear colleagues, I understand we're all tired of this law, but yet... This is the final proposal, so please have a little more time. I propose that the transitional provisions be supplemented by a new paragraph in the following wording: "The Cabinet of Ministers... prepares and submits to the Saeima a draft law on minority education institutions." Draft law on minority education institutions! The draft law was already named 11. - in my proposal. Although this proposal was not supported, the task of the Cabinet of Ministers (on the drafting of the law) has an independent role, so this proposal, 40, is under consideration. I would like to clarify once again the purpose of drafting the law on minority education institutions. Section 9(2)(3) of the Education Law provides that education in another language may be obtained at educational institutions which are provided for in other laws. The law on minority education institutions would be the law describing the educational institutions in which education can be obtained in another language in accordance with Section 9, second paragraph, point 3 of the law. This would be a special law, therefore it would not change the regulation already established by the Education Law, but would in addition to existing schools establish or establish a new type of educational institution in existing schools in the process of reorganisation. What could be the law? Minority education institutions would be implemented on the basis of a minority education programme. Education programmes for minority education institutions would be developed in accordance with the law on minority education institutions. The minority education institution would implement the subject of study “Latvian Teaching”, which would ensure the study of Latvian language, Latvian history and culture, Latvian nature and geography in Latvian language – in such number of lessons as to give the opportunity to implement other subjects, mostly in the language of the educated family. The use of the Latvian teaching language at the secondary education institution of minorities must be such as to provide its graduates with an easy opportunity to learn the content of the study in the Latvian language. I recall Mr Feldman's comment on the 11th proposal that I tabled. In particular, he compared my proposal on this draft law with the law submitted to the Central Electoral Commission of the Russian Union of Latvia for further polls or referendums. I would like to say that this party law is not at all about my intention. In the view of the Russian Union of Latvia, their law is the law on the installation of minority education institutions in Latvia. The equipment of these educational institutions, in their view, is autonomous in Latvia, it has its own organizations. On the other hand, the law on minority education institutions would have no claim on minority education autonomy. The minority education institution is an organic element of the Latvian education system. This institution fully implements the principles of the Latvian education system, it is subject to appropriate regulation. The only difference between programmes to be implemented at a minority education institution and existing minority education programmes is the language of learning their content, but this is the case. Consequently, this comparison is not valid at all. I call for my proposal to be supported and for the government to prepare such a bill, because this really will allow us to solve all the problems in our country. This will in fact close the issue of minority education in the future and create an organic society and an organic attitude towards minorities, free from prejudice and suspicion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U319	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U320	The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U321	Please call me! Let's vote for 40. - Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 18, it's against 65, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U322	All 40 proposals have been examined. I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U323	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 66, no, 18, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, (Applause) The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U324	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading, as decided by the Commission, is 13 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U325	So the deadline for the proposals is 13 September this year. Dear colleagues, Member Linda Medne has submitted a report on the motives for voting for the bill “Amendments to Education Law”.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U326	Honourable Members and honourable Members! Members of the Saeima Bureau! Anyone who follows the process of adopting this historic law! We have lived in a restored and free Latvia for 32 years, where the second generation is growing, which has not been experienced by the Soviet Union and Russian times - however, we remember that still quite recently there were anti-state-oriented characters in our country, such as a potential KGB agent with a covering name Pugulis and the KGB Colonel Savicka, who worked in Moscow to prepare high-class spies before their infiltration in Western countries in the 1980s, a friend and supporter Aigars Kalvitis. Until recently, most...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U327	Excuse me, Mrs Mednes, you must read the report exactly as you have submitted it to the Bureau. Just as it has been submitted to the Bureau - without minor variations.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U328	Until recently, most of the so-called Latvian parties were critically opposed to the dismantling of the occupation monument, as well as open-minded about possibilities to ban the wearing of colonado tapes. During the last restoration of Latvia's education ministers in the education system, a full-scale transition to Latvian-language training was considered, the smallest, as an unrealistic rhetoric of the pre-election of individual national-minded Members and Ministers, the largest - as a marginalized idea of the people of society and as national radicals. I could mention a lot more interesting facts about the way in which we lived in Latvia until the morning of February 24, 2022, when the changes in the history of the world began with the Nazi Russian invasion in Ukraine, but I will not mention them deliberately, because some of the Members present and ministers have changed the fur and demonstrate themselves as real advocates of the Latvian idea. All of us need to throw this fur in favour of Latvia. However, cooperation with such people should be particularly careful in every step. Let the true nature of this further and collaborators be studied by historians and journalists! We all finally have the opportunity to adopt a historically fair law on education only in Latvian. This and other brave steps are being taken by the Ukrainian people, who, in the war against the absolute empire of evil, allow all Western civilization to get out of the Russian world concept. For the sake of fairness, it must be said that this historic step is also possible because our coalition partners agree with the Minister of Education and Science, Anita Muižniece, Conservatives, and all the parties. And, whatever the stitches in the back of the knife are typical of our partners' relations with us, this time support for the transition to education in Latvian is felt and shared by coalition. Thank you for that. The Minister of Education and Science Anita Muižniece once again, because it is for us to thank her for the fact that these historical amendments to the law, the proposals have been made, because without her targeted work this process would be a victim who fell into the battle with constant attempts to sabotage. Thank you also to members of the Saeima’s Committee on Education, Culture and Science, which helps to protect the progress of amendments to this historic law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U329	Thank you. And I would like to thank the Minister for Education and Science, Anita Muižniece, for her participation in the Saeima sitting and for the debate on the Education Law. Changes to the agenda of the Bureau meeting have been submitted to the honourable Members. Members Jūlija Stepanenko, Aldis Gobzems, Karina Sprūde, Lubova Švecova and Ainārs Vilciņš ask that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Real Estate Tax” be added to the agenda of the Saeima sitting. ‘ Jūlija Stepanenko, Member, has applied to speak about”
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U330	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that on 1 October there are not only parliamentary elections, but that it is also a deadline that many housekeepers are worried about, because it is about putting the buildings into service. We know that, in accordance with the amendments to the Construction Law, which entered into force on 1 October 2014, a maximum period of eight years was set for the construction of individual residential buildings. And according to the provisions of this Law, the final result of this term comes into force on 1 October of this year. Thus thousands of household owners in Latvia will have to extend the building permit, but it will not help them to avoid increased real estate tax, as is provided for in this law, which we propose to you to amend at the moment, because according to the norms of this law... in relation to the binding provisions of the municipalities, in any case... Even the extended duration of the works does not prevent local authorities from levying increased real estate tax. Thus, taking into account all the circumstances of the crisis, the owners will have to pay high bills, and they will also have bigger bills - many times larger bills! - real estate tax. At least there are now about six thousand such people in Riga, where they are all over Latvia! In the light of the clarification made by the Ministry of Economics, which clearly states that the extension of the authorisation to build real estate tax will not in any way save domestic owners, we call, colleagues, on this draft law to be passed on to the Commission and very carefully to examine the issue of its adoption in an accelerated procedure, because 1 October is very soon. And on 1 October will begin to calculate the increased real estate tax for thousands of Latvians, who are also your voters, among other things. I call on you to support this draft law, this draft law being passed on to the Commission. And, of course, also support urgency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U331	Thank you. Are Members against (Interfaces: Vote!) ) the inclusion of a draft law on the agenda of today's sitting? Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Real Estate Tax”” on the agenda of today’s sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 33, against - 49, abstaining. The draft law is not on the agenda for today's sitting. The Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs is asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Orthodox Church of Latvia” at first reading and to discuss it in the Saeima sitting before item 34 of the agenda. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. Consequently, the draft law is on the agenda of the Saeima sitting before paragraph 34. Members Kaspars Ģirgens, Ramona Petraviča, Ieva Krapāne, Ēriks Pucens, Ainārs Vilciņš, Lubova Švecova and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Authorities”. ‘ Ēriks Pucens, a Member, has applied for this.”
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U332	Hello, dear colleagues! In the morning we are, 13. Member of the Saeima, visited by the President of Latvia. He gave us instructions before the birth of the new Saeima, reminding us what we had done and what we were not. The opposition parties and the broken factions were indicated that they had broken down. But for some reason the President of Latvia did not talk about the crisis that is approaching Latvia. He did not talk about works that had not been done by the coalition, because it is necessary to speak obediently and talk about what society should hear from the coalition. In the very near future - now in the autumn - the crisis will be felt by the police, the firemen and the teachers. But this crisis will not be felt by those sitting in the Chamber, because in the next Saeima Members will receive much more pay than now. We see that we are able to make decisions about ourselves, about Members, but we are not able to meet the statutory requirements that we have promised. Freezing these wages every year in the budget would save 700 thousand. Can we direct these funds to teachers? The teachers will be going to strike right away, but we're so sitting around and talking round and around. Yes, indeed, I see a coalition so smiles. ( Milestones.) Yeah, you smile. ( Internouncing call.) All right, all right. But soon there will be elections, and I call on the voters to look at what the government has done, what the Saeima has not done, as the Saeima has voted. I therefore call for this draft law to be passed on to the Commission, to work with it, not to reject it immediately and to throw it into waste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U333	Do Members have objections (Interface: "Vote!" ) against the inclusion of a draft law on the agenda of the sitting? Please call me! We will vote for inclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” on the agenda of today’s sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 30, against - 49, abstaining. Consequently, the draft law is not included on the agenda of the sitting. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Orthodox Church of Latvia”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U334	Dear colleagues, Little attention, please! We examine the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Orthodox Church of Latvia” (No. 1593/Lp13) at first reading. The Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs examined the draft law at its meeting and supported it. It was today. The draft law is prepared in accordance with national security interests and respecting Latvia's Orthodox freedom of faith. It provides that with these amendments of the law, Latvia's Orthodox Church is recognised as an independent and independent autocratic church of Latvia. This means that it is independent of any other government and influence of a church outside Latvia. The said draft law has been submitted to the Saeima by the President of Latvia Egils Levits, who invites the Saeima to consider the draft law as a matter of urgency and ensure its entry into force as soon as possible. The committee of Human Rights and Public Affairs was also responsible for examining the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Orthodox Church of Latvia” in the Saeima. I call for support to be given to this draft law as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U335	Colleagues, the Commission is therefore calling for the draft law to be declared urgent. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Orthodox Church of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 71, for - 3 and for - 1. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U336	I call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U337	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U338	Dear President, Honourable Members! Already this morning we heard from one professor of the red university, professor of the University of Latvia, that such a law would not give you anything, because it would be necessary to recognise this church from other churches and international relations... and so on. That is why I would like to say a few things. So nothing needs to be recognised, and as usual, these attempts by Czechs, former Communists and red professors to make the balls in the continuation of the recognition of Latvia's independence will be unsuccessful. Why? Because the Latvian Orthodox Church, the true Orthodox Church, was abolished in March 1941 by the decision of the NKVD People's Commissioner (who does not know what the NKVD is - Narodny komissariat vnutrennih del, therefore the People's Commissioner for Home Affairs) Vsevoloda Merkulova. The decision that was found in Moscow's archives when he could still be at Bakatin's time at the Czech archives, historian Professor Strods... and the text is as follows: “By means of the USSR VDTK Agency, take the decision of the Kaunas Patriarchy on the submission of the Orthodox churches of Latvia, Estonia and Lithuania to the Patriarchy of Moscow, using the submissions of local usual clergymen and believers for this purpose. For the management of the Moscow Patriarchy of the Baltic eparchia (bishops), Voskresenski Dmitry Nikolajevič (SRS VDTK agent), using the requests from local clergy held by the Moscow Patriarchy.’ What is the situation then for the Latvian Orthodox Church, which came to the Patriarchy of Constantinople in 1936, which our red professors do not know for some reason (which absolutely does not surprise me) at the University of Latvia? Then there is an extremely interesting document. Finnish Orthodox Church in the Patriarchy of Constantinople... which in 1937, had concluded an agreement in Sortavala, Finland, at a conference with Latvian and Estonian churches, bearing in mind that Latvia is an independent country, interested in the Patriarchate of the World, which is then the situation of the Latvian Orthodox Church today. And, you know, I got an extremely interesting document. If you are interested, I have a copy of this letter translated. The World Patriarch Varfolomey wrote with irony: “The pride of the existing church about the Orthodox Church of Latvia is interesting, because the respected Latvian law for no reason prefers the Holy Russian Orthodox Church, regardless of the fact that the canonical jurisdiction over the Orthodox Diaspora is limited to the World Patriarch.” In 1941, there was no patriarchate of Moscow, since Patriarch Tihonov had died and had not been appointed. In 1943 Stalin founded the Russian Orthodox Church. And since it was war, we should have raised patriotism... not the Russian, but the Russian Orthodox Church. But imagine that Latvia joins Moscow's Patriarchy, where there is no patriarch at all. Now it was found by historian Strod. So that's the details. So next. The World Patriarchate believes that no cheque decisions de jure can cancel Thomas assigned to the Orthodox Church of Latvia in 1936. Because de jure it exists. Another question is about de facto, of course, they have been destroyed. Thank you to the President of Latvia that he finally gave a kick to some institutions in Latvia, including the Ministry of Justice, which for years drew and did not want to acknowledge the situation of the Latvian church. In 2019, when looking at the Law on Religious Organisations at the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, I submitted two proposals which were rejected unanimously by the Commission. The first is simply to admit that there are two churches in Latvia, because then the war in Ukraine had not begun yet. We know that Finland also has a small Moscow Orthodox Church and that the Estonians have also been allowed, even though they have restored the Patriarchy of Constantinople in Estonia. My proposal was that there are traditional churches in Latvia... the list, and then the Orthodox Church of Latvia in the Patriarchy of Constantinople and the Orthodox Church of Moscow in Latvia. Well, you can call it the Russian Orthodox Church branch... That was the task of the commission. However, the Minister of Justice Bordāns went to the Saeima and gave a proposal to eliminate this article in general, because registration is no longer necessary to be registered or recognised by the fact that in Latvia, here, this de jure... The Church of the Patriarchy of Constantinople is still valid. My second proposal was also rejected that religious organizations should receive the opinion that they were not members of the State Security Service of the USSR, the State Security Service of the Latvian SSR, intelligence or counter-intelligence service, as well as were active on the international front of the PSCP and Latvian Workers after 1991, the Joint Council of Labour Groups, the War and Labour Veterans Organisation, the Committee for the Rescue of the Latvian Society and the Regional Divisions. This proposal was also rejected. I regret that the President of Latvia has not put this part in his supplement to a law that would be mandatory because... I hope that Members saw the forgiveness of the television channel Chas two weeks ago... The “Djdj” is an extremely interesting documentary about Moscow Patriarchy and the Russian Orthodox Church. So, 90... in this documentary film... According to their study (a very serious study), 90 percent of the chief clergymen were former KGB officers, or today's FSB officers, who are mainly engaged in intelligence and spying in various international organizations. Now in Latvia, we still have it. Next - the Administration of Religious Affairs of the Cabinet of Ministers of the LSSR was ever. Well, and created Orthodoxism such a cheque sub-pulse Isajev. Miracle cases are happening - as if in the restored independent state of Latvia this Isayev Latvian Orthodox Church appoints as real estate manager, and systematic extortion of Latvian Orthodox Church property begins. The last example was that it was possible to sell the residential house on Kalnciema Street, a multi-storey Art Nouveau house, which was immediately burned by the bandite, because it was sold to the respective Russian buyers to build a hotel there. Well, the heritage of the protection of monuments (interface.) ... Let's say, the Defence Inspectorate has now been arrested, and that house's half burned... It should be restored. It is a typical example of the operation of the cheque in the Orthodox Church of Latvia - continuous sale of property, reality. As the television channel “Djdj” showed... What, then, is the Russian Orthodox Church? All of these patriarchs, including the present - with a climax of Mihailov - FSB officer. From the time of Yeltsin they received duty-free import of snout, i.e., vodka, alcohol “ Royal” free of customs and cigarettes. In fact, Satanism - to hear and indign their believers with nicotine. It's a billion turnarounds. Those who saw the film - so class S mercedesi for the clergy, watches that are not cheaper than 20 thousand. And all this... Every Sunday Latvian believers had to ask and choose the health of this patriarch. Thank you for finally doing this. Better later than never. It took 30 years to get rid of this Czechist formation - the Russian Orthodox Church. But, of course, it's not all... Remember, the Ukrainians took years... I should've gone to Proshenko... The president had to go, the Minister for Foreign Affairs... To restore contact with the World Patriarchate... and so on. I think this will be done. And the last one is the heaviest. The main task of the Moscow Czech Republic was to destroy the Latvian orthodox church. Before the war there were 70 Latvian congregations, 10 years ago there was one moon on the street - the Riga Ascension Church, as written by the priest Jānis Kalniņš. It is also not clear whether there are now church services going on every week, I do not know, but restoring it is, of course, very difficult. There were more than 50,000 Latvian Orthodoxs. The seminar in Latvian, introduced by Metropolitan Augustine, was destroyed. Publication of religious literature in Latvian was abolished. All this must be done, these churches must be restored, church services must be restored in Latvian, seminars must be set up where priests in Latvian, where religious literature is published, and international relations with the churches with which the Latvian Orthodox Church had relations in the Patriarchy of Constantinople before the war. So a huge job. I'm sorry. The only thing I think is that maybe we will do it in time, we must clear the Orthodox Church from the Czechs. Thank you for your attention. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U339	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U340	On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U341	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Orthodox Church of Latvia” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 73, against - 3, refraining from - 1. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U342	If there are no objections on behalf of Members, I would ask the Commission to examine this draft law now at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U343	Are Members opposed to the examination of the draft law without re-examination by the committee responsible? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U344	Please support the draft law “Amendments to the Latvian Orthodox Church Law” (No. 1593/Lp13) for the second final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U345	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Orthodox Church of Latvia” in the second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 73, against - 3, refraining from - 1. The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U346	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U347	Draft law “Amendments to the Law on General Education”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Member Linda Medne.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U348	Commission for Education, Culture and Science in Draft Law Amendments to the Law on General Education (No. 1520/Lp13) considered the proposals received. 12 proposals were made for the second reading. The draft law is related to the draft law just examined “Amendments to the Education Law” (No. 1519/Lp13). Let's start examining the proposals. 1. - Proposal by Members Papule, Golubeva, Dombrovskis, Dūrīša, Skrides, Rukšāne-Šchipčinskas and Bikše. It is encouraged to supplement Article 4 of the Law on General Education by establishing that the Cabinet of Ministers shall establish the procedure in which educational institutions provide educationally adaptive support for the development of learners in order to establish communication competence of learners. Partially supported and included 7 and 11 - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U349	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U350	Madam President, Colleagues and colleagues! Without asking for a vote on further proposals that have been partly supported, I would like to say thank you very much to the Commission on Education, Culture and Science for its work, understanding and discussions. To actually answer... and clarify the pedagogical professional approach to the adaptive process, allowing a few more sentences from the theory. What, then, is a truly adaptive learning? This is one way of providing personalised learning. The aim is to provide effective and tailor-made learning pathways for each student. Adaptive learning systems use a data-based approach to adjust this type of learning and forms of learning, enabling the child to be taught in a truly personalized way... which is consistent with the competence approach. Adaptive systems can facilitate changes in the role of teaching staff by providing innovative learning practices and incorporate formats of different content to support pupils in accordance with their learning needs in the national language. It is clear that we are talking about process and learning in Latvian, not about some other way. So about teaching in Latvian, but - applying these types of learning and personalized learning so that children can do it better. I do not require a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U351	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U352	In the Commission, this proposal has been partly supported and incorporated in 7 and 11 - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U353	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U354	2. - Proposal by Members Papule, Golubeva, Dombrovskis, Dūrīša, Skrides, Rukšāne-Šchipčinskas and Bikše. That's the subject. It is foreseen that the Ministry of Education and Science is developing guidelines for providing teaching-friendly support to education development by pre-school and primary level education institutions to develop communication competences in education. As already mentioned, the compromise solution was found by clarifying the third paragraph of Article 20 of the General Education Law and adding the eighth paragraph to Article 30. Partially supported and included 7 and 11 - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U355	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U356	3. - Proposal by Members Papule, Golubeva, Dombrovskis, Dūrīša, Skrides, Rukšāne-Šchipčinskas and Bikše. This proposal is also on the same subject, but only calls for the addition of an article on the national standard of general education. Like the previous one, this proposal has been partly supported by the Commission and included in the 7th and 11th reports. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U357	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U358	4. - Proposal by Members Papule, Golubeva, Dombrovskis, Dūrīša, Skrides, Rukšāne-Šchipčinskas and Bikše. The idea already included in previous proposals. Encourages the addition of an article on national pre-school guidelines. Partially supported and included 7 and 11 - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U359	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U360	5. - Proposal by Members Papule, Golubeva, Dombrovskis, Dūrīša, Skrides, Rukšāne-Šchipčinskas and Bikše. The same issue as in previous proposals continues. Partially supported and included 7 and 11 - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U361	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U362	6. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Taking into account the discussions already initiated during the examination of the proposals of the Education Law, a Commission proposal has been prepared to supplement Article 17 of the General Education Law with a third part, which provides that students of the General Education Programme receive systematic support for the development of social emotional competences. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U363	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U364	7. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. In the context of both the draft law on amendments to the Education Act and the proposals received in this draft law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U365	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U366	8 / 8 - Proposal by Members Papule, Golubeva, Dombrovskis, Dūrīša, Skrides, Rukšāne-Šchipčinskas and Bikše. Like Proposals 1 to 5 on Pedagogically Adaptive Support for Education Development, this proposal has been partially supported and included in the Commission in 7 and 11. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U367	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U368	9. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. Amendments to Article 29 of the Law shall be encouraged by rewording the second paragraph of the Article in connection with amendments previously made to the Law on Vocational Education and Training. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U369	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U370	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Kucin's proposal. It is encouraged to exclude both articles of this draft law. There is no support in the Commission. ( Intercretion: Vote!) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U371	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - Mr Kucin! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 19, it's against 48, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U372	11. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. In the context of both the draft law on amendments to the Education Act and the proposals received in this draft law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U373	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U374	12. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science Muižniece. Amendments to Article 51 of the Law shall be encouraged by supplementing the first paragraph of the Section with a sentence on the acquisition of an educational programme in connection with amendments previously made to the Law on Vocational Education. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U375	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U376	All 12 proposals have been examined. I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U377	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on General Education"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U378	In line with the decision made by the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, please set a deadline for the third reading of the draft law - 13 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U379	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 13 September this year. Draft law “Amendment to Criminal Procedure Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Ms Marija Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U380	Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission examined and supported the amendment at first reading... The draft law ‘Amendment to the Criminal Procedure Law’, supported by the Government, which aims to record in the Criminal Procedure Law a position such as an investigator’s assistant. The investigator’s assistant will perform organisational and administrative duties, thus releasing the investigator from the... the time for the investigator to conduct the investigation directly. It is a very useful innovation for the police. Given that the police still have a lot of vacancies for investigation posts... Despite the fact that already this year the investigator's salary has been raised, there are 20 percent of unfilled vacancies. I therefore call for support, as this will help to relieve existing investigators from unnecessary administrative work. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U381	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Criminal Procedure Law” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals. Enable the microphone for Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U382	Yeah... Mr. Butane can help? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Butan: ‘Five days’. ) Five days.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U383	So the deadline for proposals - five days - is 13 September this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Waste Management Act”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Gatis Zamurs.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U384	Hello, Madam President of the Saeima. Colleagues! In the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, we examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Waste Management” at first reading. These amendments include transitional provisions to ensure that waste is disposed of in accordance with concluded contracts and to ensure legal certainty for companies involved in waste management. At the same time, it was also necessary to extend the deadline for the development of regional waste management plans until 30 June 2023. On behalf of the Commission, I ask for the urgency of this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U385	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on waste management! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U386	Please support the draft law at first reading by the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U387	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Waste Management"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U388	So the deadline for submitting proposals is 12 September at 12 noon. Review at second reading by the Saeima - 15 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U389	The deadline for proposals is September 12 by 12 noon this year. Consideration at the Saeima sitting - 15 September this year. Thank you. Draft law “Amendments to the National Security Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Ainars Bauskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U390	Dear President, Dear colleagues, The draft law “Amendments to the Law on National Security” was discussed at the meeting of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption on 6 September 2009 (No. 1536/Lp13) and confirmed accordingly for first reading. The draft law has been developed by the Ministry of Defence in fact after the establishment of the National Security Commission and the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption. There are, of course, more precise definitions of the terms ‘true beneficiary’, ‘loan’ and so on, but essentially the aim of the draft law is to strengthen a common framework and mechanism for assessing and eliminating threats to critical infrastructure and national security for companies, associations and foundations in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2019/452 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 March 2019 establishing a framework for the assessment of foreign direct investment in the European Union. The entry into force of the law shall be established in accordance with the general procedure laid down by regulatory enactments. Please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U391	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on National Security". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U392	In the term commission, we decided - seven days, that is, by 15 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U393	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 15 September this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Defence and Security Procurement”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Janina Kursīte.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U394	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! See the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Defence and Security Procurement” (No. 1548/Lp13) at first reading. This draft law has been drafted at the initiative of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Defence and the Constitutional Defence Bureau and is related to the laws “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement” and “Amendments to the Law on Public Service Providers” adopted by the Saeima this year, where new rules on the exclusion of candidates and tenderers were approved. The draft law is designed to improve the regulation of defence and security procurement in relation to: the establishment and functioning of the Procurement Commission; the rules for exclusion of candidates and tenderers, so that only fair suppliers can participate in procurement; the indication of information about the contractor, subcontractors tied by the applicant and information protection requirements. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U395	Let's start a debate. The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U396	Dear colleagues, This draft law, though, is not directly linked to the basic document, perhaps in the sense that it could have some effect, but I would like to talk about the procurement law that underpins this draft law. I'm already in the commission (Interfaces.) I am talking about this, and the most important problem is that we are doing stuff at the moment, losing the big things. The main thing is that procurement is currently, especially in construction, and this is also linked to the current problem of disrupting the procurement of heating companies... tenderers who do not have the necessary technical, knowledge and human resources to fulfil their obligations shall participate in the procurement. The same could be the case for this draft law. I don't think we can change something here, but I just want to remind you that this problem is very topical and the law on procurement should definitely include not a norm that is different, but quite specific... and the condition that the contractor also owns at least 80 per cent of the equipment and technical staff necessary for the execution of the works. That's all for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U397	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U398	On behalf of the Commission, I can add that there is no commitment here. So I ask you to adopt the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U399	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Defence and Security Procurement”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U400	One week - September 15.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U401	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 15 September this year. Draft Law on Municipalities, third reading. On behalf of the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, Member Inga Goldberga Stop it! Vote for!’ ; methacrylics.) ( The drug is noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) ... Colleagues, let's keep working. Members, please, take your seats in Saeima's meeting room! We shall continue to examine draft laws.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U402	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! The Commission of State Administration and Local Government has prepared for the third reading of the draft law “Law on Municipalities” (No. 976/Lp13). We have received 155 proposals for the third reading. 1. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. It provides for clarification of the purpose of the law. Partially supported, included 2. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U403	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U404	2. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Clarifying the objectives, complementing the need to ensure a balanced access to services. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U405	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U406	3. - Mr Valaina's proposal. The Parliament did not support a similar proposal at second reading. Consequently, the Commission did not support this either.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U407	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. ( Interface: “ Viktor, your time is up! ” ; methacrylics.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U408	Dear colleagues, I will try to talk about the main proposals and the substance. ( Internouncing call.) Colleagues! This proposal is very important, I think, especially for the National Union, perhaps also for Conservatives, and I call attention to what I will say. This current version of the law “On Municipalities” provides that the municipality is elected by citizens. And on the issue of elected municipalities, discussions were in the form of the draft law "Law of Municipalities", quite broad and rather controversial, because at the moment, if we put the word "citizens", it theoretically opens the way for non-citizens, for example, to participate in elections, that we open a much broader scope in municipalities than we are now. Colleagues, the Commission held a discussion on this subject. According to the Legal Bureau, if we keep this “person”... editorial as currently proposed, it will continue to mean that only Latvian citizens will be able to participate in municipal elections. I think that this proposal also does not necessarily need to be supported by this argument, but everyone needs to understand that the Saeima, when voting on this bill, has under no circumstances thought of extending this scope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U409	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U410	I would remind you that proposal 3 has not been supported by the Commission. ( Insight: ‘ Can I vote? ’) ) Can we go on? 4. - Legal Bureau...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U411	So, colleagues, colleagues, wait, we stayed on proposal 3. We expected to explain in more detail on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U412	Yeah, I can also detail. In the context of this proposal, a similar opinion was made public before the second reading, creating a misconception that it would be possible to conclude from the expression “persons’ elected decision-making body” that the idea would be more widely elected than has been the case so far. In order to avoid unjustified interpretation of this norm, I draw your attention to the fact that the group of entities elected to the municipality council is defined in Article 101 of the Satversme. And Article 101 of the Satversme provides: “Legislators shall be elected by fully-fledged Latvian citizens and citizens of the European Union who are permanently resident in Latvia.” Consequently, the issue - which, in the context of citizenship, is right to elect an opinion - has been defined in the Constitution and this principle cannot be changed without amendment of the Constitution. In turn, more detailed rules on which Latvian citizens and citizens of the European Union are entitled to elect a particular municipal council are laid down in the Municipal Council Election Law. The additional argument that such terminology has been used is that it would not be justified to use the term ‘citizens’ in the first part of the sentence and ‘citizens’ in the next part of the sentence. This would be an unnecessary distinction between citizens and citizens, defining, within the framework of a single sentence, that the councils are elected by citizens, while the council is acting in the interests of citizens. That's a legal explanation. This second-reading version was also produced by the working group with experts and was debated several times before the second reading by the Commission. That's why 3. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U413	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - Member Viktoras Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U414	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The second paragraph of Article 2 shall be excluded. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U415	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U416	5. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. It is envisaged to include a new article entitled ‘Development centres of national and regional importance’. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U417	Members (Interface: “Vote!” )... wishes to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U418	6 - The motion of Member Viktor Valaiņš. Clarifying the competence of municipalities. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U419	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U420	7. - Mr Valaina's proposal. Associated with 23 and provides for a fundamental change regarding who is the autonomous functions of the municipality and who is the functions assigned by the municipality. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U421	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U422	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U423	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U424	9. - Mr Valaina's proposal. It provides for the exclusion from the autonomous functions of vocational education and training of interests and adult education. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U425	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U426	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Mr Kirštein's proposal. Provision is made for the addition of Article 4(5). Mr. Kirstein will tell himself.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U427	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U428	Dear President, Honourable Members! The Commission did not support my proposal on the grounds that there are already provisions of the Cabinet of Ministers and that there is a law on monuments. But here it is very simple: the municipality must make sure that its territory, outside the mass burials of soldiers, does not contain famous monuments and memorials of the armed forces and Soviet occupations of the USSR. They are not just monuments, and neither the Cabinet of Ministers nor the Saeima can know... There are hundreds of barrels of all kinds, there are some red stars, there are other signs. And why the “Law of Municipalities”... Is that so? Very simple. We heard that the municipalities of Daugavpils... The management of Daugavpils municipality and the management of the city said that they would complain in court, they were not... They don't keep any monuments from behind and so forth. If that is the case with the main monuments in the city, imagine what will happen to the various commemorative signs, tabs, sinks and everything else, which is already a huge opposition. And that is why my proposal is that the ministry and the responsible minister - whether it is Mr Pleis or someone else - if it does not comply with this law, simply change this municipal administration. I therefore call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U429	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U430	Yeah. I would like to point out that this proposal creates a contradiction with the special law governing this area and this function becomes a permanent autonomous function of the municipality. It would therefore be recognised that all these sites mentioned in the proposal could exist after 15 November as this law is to enter into force on 1 January 2023. Moreover, if you look at the context with 35. - the proposal made by the Member Kirštein, then it follows that from 1 January of the following year the local authorities will draw up a procedure for the dismantling and replacement of the names of these monuments. So if we approve now, then for those municipalities that do not comply with the special law at this point, we give an additional opportunity not to do so. So I call 10 on behalf of the Commission. - Mr Kirstein's proposal is not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U431	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - Mr Kirstein's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 4, for - 52, for - 4. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U432	11. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. Point 6 is replaced by the word ‘to promote’: ‘to promote access to healthcare’. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U433	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U434	12. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. The intention is to increase the role of municipalities in the organization of gambling.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U435	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U436	Hello! I have to say that what has now come together, that is, but the honourable gentleman has managed to present a very good proposal - proposal 12. This proposal would provide for the municipality to be entitled to "issue authorisations and licences for commercial activities and to decide whether to permit or prohibit the place where gambling is organised within the administrative territory of the municipality". ( Intercretion: “Rightly! ” ) Almost at 17.00, and it almost seemed that somehow all of them were tired, will slip through, but not - the earnest Conservatives are asking for a vote on this proposal and are calling for strong support. Thank you. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U437	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U438	Yeah. The Commission did not support this proposal by hearing the invited parties, including the Latvian Municipal Union, who called for it not to be provided for in this particular law, but for it to be regulated by the Law on Gambling and Gaming. Consequently, the Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U439	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. K. Feldman and Depp. S. Riekstins.) Please get the result! For - 32, for - 14, for - 21. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U440	13. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. Default to disable... lay down a provision in the following wording... that the autonomous function of the municipality is the creation of the... and co-operation... The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U441	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U442	That's bad! ( The drug is noise. (See paragraph 4.5 of this Regulation.) Dear colleagues, This proposal provides for a change of order, because until the third reading - until the third reading! - However, the Ministry of Finance has not proposed any kind of measures, nor has it shown how this draft law will be compensated... the intended function of this local police... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's all in words! There's nothing more here. And, in my view, colleagues, this is the approach that we set out that in the future the local police will be mandatory in every municipality... In our country, there are several municipalities that do not have a local police force, it is not established. And if by this law we impose such an obligation on municipalities as mandatory, we get into a situation that... we are in this way violating the European Charter of Local Authorities. Everyone can get acquainted with the opinion attached to this draft law by the Latvian Municipal Union. This proposal and the next one are precisely about it. I think we can get into a situation that... It is because of this paragraph that the Government does not provide any kind of support instruments, financial support for the exercise of this function, that we can arrive at the fact that this law is challenged before the Constitutional Court. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U443	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U444	Yeah. This issue has been debated very widely both within the Commission and within the sub-committee chaired by Mr Valaiņa and within the working groups. The Commission did not, however, support such an approach in any way. 13. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš did not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U445	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 13. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -13, for -57, for -1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U446	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. It also provides for exclusion from the autonomous functions of the municipal police, only in a different version. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U447	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U448	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. Disabling the role of municipalities in the field of fire safety and fire. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U449	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U450	16. - Mr Kozlovsky's proposal. The role of municipalities is to be strengthened by supporting the creation and operation of voluntary fire-fighting organisations. There is no support in the Commission. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U451	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 16. - Mr Kozlovska's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 25, for - 36, for - 5. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U452	17. - the proposal of the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pleis. The rule on the role of municipalities in the management of natural capital shall be clarified. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U453	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U454	18. - Mr Valaina's proposal. It is envisaged to exclude decongestion services from autonomous functions. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U455	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U456	Colleagues! This proposal... I call for this draft law to be excluded from the task of local authorities - to ensure access to desolation services. In my opinion, the main problem is that when proposing this function, no one has thought about how the municipalities will, by their very nature, implement it. And no one has thought about where the municipalities will have money to carry out this function. This is another striking example of the fact that local authorities are simply being assigned new functions. And this is not a simple function that gives someone a room to lie down. This function requires serious resources, both financially and organisationally. It costs! I do not accept this attitude towards municipalities: they are being imposed on them new and new functions which are not being followed by funding. I call for this approach not to be supported. If you commission local authorities to perform new functions, then also provide them with appropriate funding. This has not been done in the course of the drafting of this law. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U457	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U458	This issue was also dealt with in very detail before the second reading. A number of concrete measures were also considered in the municipalities. The necessary funding was also analysed. 18. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U459	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 18. - Member Valaina's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 11, it's against 60, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U460	19. - the proposal of the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pleis. Add new norm on the role of municipalities in limiting climate change. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U461	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U462	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. The intention is to convert the text of the annotation into the text of the law. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U463	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U464	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Mr Valaina's proposal. Provides regulation that the municipality performs autonomous functions primarily, while the volunteers only perform autonomous functions. Given that it is, in substance, governed by the third paragraph of Article 5, the proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U465	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U466	22. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editative clarification. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U467	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U468	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pleis. It is envisaged to exclude voluntary initiatives. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U469	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U470	24. - Mr Valaina's proposal. It is envisaged that the municipality is not under the authority of the Cabinet of Ministers, but under the supervision of the State Delegated Administration. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U471	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 24. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for -13, against -62, abstaining. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U472	25. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U473	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U474	26. - Mr Valaina's proposal. It provides for the addition of Article 8 to other types of municipalities performing the functions of state-owned municipalities. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U475	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U476	27. - Mr Valaina's proposal. Linked to proposal 26. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U477	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U478	28. - the proposal of the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pleis. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U479	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U480	29. - Mr Valaina's proposal. A significant difference from the existing framework is envisaged. There is no support in the Commission. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U481	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 29. - Member Valaina's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 13, against - 60, abstaining. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U482	30. - Mr Valaina's proposal. Planned to express... disable... the words ‘the Board set up by the City Council’. The Commission agreed to set up 31 during the debate. - the Commission's proposal. Therefore, proposal 30 is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U483	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U484	31. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Provision shall be made for the wording of point (11) of the first paragraph of Article 10 in a different version. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U485	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U486	32. - Mr Valaina's proposal. Provision shall be made for the addition of point 15 of the first paragraph of Article 10. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U487	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U488	33. - Mr Valaina's proposal. This also clarifies paragraph 15 only in a different version. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U489	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U490	34. - Mr Valaina's proposal. Defines the competence of the Council to decide on the location of the organization of gambling. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U491	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U492	It was very interesting, then, that even the opposition does not stand up for the proposal made by a colleague, the opposition with whom so many documents have been signed together. ( Milestones.) That's crazy! And let's try again here one more time. Now show solidarity, because there is a very strong gambling lobby in the Saeima! And we look at it - maybe you could have solidarity. ( Milestones.) This proposal provides for the municipal council to have the right to "decide whether to authorise or prohibit gambling activities in the administrative territory of the municipality". Support your colleagues! ( Milestones.) I understand that you will never support us and we will - not, but support your colleagues. ( Milestones.) I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U493	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U494	Colleagues! I'm calling... little attention, please. I think we have to finish the job today. The Queen of England just died. And I think here we could also put a comma on the agenda for today's sitting. I would ask really Members to collect signatures and stop the Saeima sitting today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U495	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U496	I do not have the slightest understanding of how the Parliament of the Republic of Latvia will deal with the death of the Queen of England. We can express our sympathy, but that has nothing to do with our work. So we continue to work and support all Viktoras Valaiņš' proposals! And Viktor Valainis could also explain something about them more widely so that we can support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U497	I closed the debate. Colleagues, on the agenda - proposal 34. Is there a commission to explain?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U498	Yeah. I can only add the same thing as the previous, similar, proposal - having heard all the parties, it was found that this should be regulated by a special law. That is why this proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U499	Please call me! To be put to the vote on 34. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 37, for - 35, for - 1. (Applause) The proposal is supported. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “Thanks TO THE SAVE!” Impression. (Laughter)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U500	35. - Mr Kirštein's proposal. Provision is made for the municipalities to decide on the procedure for dismantling the armed forces of the USSR and the famous monuments and memorial signs of the Soviet occupations. In the Commission, the proposal is not supported because, after discussions, it was found to be regulated by a specific law, but the draft law in question will only enter into force from 1 January 2023. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U501	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U502	36. - Mr Valaina's proposal. Provision shall be made for the wording of the introductory part of the second paragraph of Article 10 of the draft law in a different form. There is no support in the Commission. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U503	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 36. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for -14, against -62, abstaining. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U504	38. - Member Valaiņa...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U505	37.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U506	I'm sorry. 37. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It is envisaged to exclude point (d) of the second paragraph of Article 10. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U507	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U508	38. - Mr Valaina's proposal. Provision shall be made to rule that the head of the institution shall also be appointed from among the staff of the administration during his absence. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U509	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U510	Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, it was a false message. Indeed, let the queen be in good health.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U511	On the proposal, Mr. Neighbour!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U512	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U513	I closed the debate. This was not about the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U514	38.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U515	One second. About 38. Are Members asking for a vote? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of 38. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 11, it's against -63, it's abstaining - it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U516	39. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The norm regarding the right of the chairperson of the council to give binding instructions to heads of municipal institutions and institutions shall be clarified. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U517	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U518	40. - Mr Valaina's proposal. It is envisaged to exclude the word ‘stable’. Following the discussion, a new Commission proposal was made, thus 40. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U519	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U520	41. - a proposal from the committee responsible. That's what I'm saying. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U521	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U522	42. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The word ‘officials’ shall be deleted. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U523	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U524	43. - Mr Valaina's proposal. Proposals 43, 44 and 45 below propose different versions of Article 20. After the discussion 46 were formed. - the Commission's compromise proposal. Consequently, 43. - Valaiņš's proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U525	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U526	44. - Mr Valaina's proposal. Neither is it supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U527	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U528	45. - Mr Valaina's proposal. For the same. Neither is it supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U529	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U530	46. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U531	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U532	47. - the Ombudsman Janson's proposal. It shall be provided that staff may be transferred to any other post only with their consent. During the discussion, the panel decided to make a commission proposal. Consequently, the 47th proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U533	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U534	48. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U535	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U536	49. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Established on the basis of the proposals of the Legal Bureau and the Free Trade Union of Latvia and intends to clarify the seventh part of Section 20 in accordance with the State Civil Service... For terminology of labour law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U537	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U538	50. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Article 20 of the draft law is added. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U539	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U540	51. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Sets out paragraph 4 of the fourth paragraph of Article 21. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U541	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U542	52. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The words ‘binding’ in paragraph 2 of the first paragraph of Article 22 shall be deleted. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U543	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U544	53. - Mr Valaina's proposal. The powers of the Executive Director and his/her Deputy Directors shall be specified. Partially supported, included 54. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U545	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U546	54. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Clarifying the rule. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U547	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U548	55. - Mr Valaina's proposal. The norm is also clarified. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U549	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U550	56. - Mr Valaina's proposal. Provision shall be made for the exclusion of point 14 of the first paragraph of Article 22. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U551	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U552	57. - the proposal of the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pleis. Provision shall be made for Article 23 on the management of territorial units of a municipality in a different version. Given that the proposal is conceptual and the second reading... It's a wide-ranging discussion... As a result of a very broad discussion, the Commission did not support proposal 57.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U553	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U554	58. - Mr Valaina's proposal. The first paragraph of Article 24 shall be clarified. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U555	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U556	59. - the proposal of the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pleis. It is foreseen that the notice of the meeting of the City Council should not be placed at a place accessible to visitors, but at the place where the municipal services are provided. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U557	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U558	60. - Mr Valaina's proposal. It is envisaged to exclude the provision that draft decisions of the Council are publicly available to the public. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U559	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U560	61. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Clarifying the rule. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U561	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U562	62. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U563	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U564	63. - the proposal of the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pleis. Editable. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U565	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U566	64. - Mr Valaina's proposal. It is planned to rule out the regulation regarding the viewing of amendments to the municipal budget at the extraordinary meeting of the council. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U567	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U568	65. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U569	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U570	66. - Mr Valaina's proposal. Proposals 66, 67 and 68 concern regulation of the possibility for Members to take part in extraordinary meetings of the Council. Proposals 66 and 67 by Valaiņa extend these opportunities. The Commission's discussion of the 66th proposal has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U571	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U572	67. - Mr Valaina's proposal. On the same subject. The Commission is not supported either.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U573	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U574	68. - the proposal from the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Artis Tomas Plšs. Also about the possibility to participate remotely. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U575	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U576	69. - the proposal from the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Artis Tomas Plšs. It is envisaged to clarify the framework for amending the agenda of the Council meeting. Partly supported, included 70. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U577	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U578	70. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Rule 35 is replaced by the following: Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U579	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U580	71. - the proposal of the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pleis. It shall be established: no vote shall be taken on the officials elected in accordance with the procedure of competition by means of ballot papers. Partly supported, included 72. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U581	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U582	72. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U583	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U584	73. - Mr Valaina's proposal. Provision is made for the waiver of municipal regulations. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U585	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U586	74. - Mr Valaina's proposal. Provision shall be made for compensation for damage caused by illegal decisions of the Council. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U587	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U588	75. - Mr Valaina's proposal. Provision shall be made to exclude the inclusion of a summary of the grounds for vote in the minutes of the meeting of the Council. There is no support in the Commission. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U589	Please call me! We will vote for 75. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U590	76. - Mr Valaina's proposal. It is envisaged to set a deadline for the storage of audiovisual recordings of the Board’s hearing on the municipal website. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U591	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U592	77. - Mr Valaina's proposal. It is envisaged to add two new parts to Article 39. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U593	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U594	78. - Mr Valaina's proposal. Provision shall be made to exclude a restriction on the frequency of convocation of committee meetings. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U595	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U596	79. - Mr Valaina's proposal. Provision shall also be made for a time limit for the storage of audiovisual recordings or audiovisual recordings in committee meetings. Partly supported, included 80. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U597	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U598	80. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Clarifying proposal 79. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U599	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U600	81. - Mr Valaina's proposal. The same is true of 82. It is provided to list the types of municipal laws and regulations by changing the title of the division. Given that the proposals were widely discussed at second reading, proposal 81 has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U601	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U602	82. - Mr Valaina's proposal. On the same subject. The Commission is not supported either.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U603	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U604	83. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is envisaged to transpose Article 45 as the last one in Chapter V. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U605	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U606	84. - Mr Valaina's proposal. Provision shall be made for the listing referred to in point 4 of the first paragraph of Article 47 to be replaced. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U607	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U608	85. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Clarifying the provision. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U609	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U610	86. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U611	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U612	87. - Adamovich's proposal. It is planned to supplement the norm with the regulation on the protection of municipal transport infrastructure. There is no support in the Commission. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U613	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 87. - Adamovich's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U614	88. - Mr Valaina's proposal. They also speak of the same rule, only in a different way. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U615	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U616	89. - Mr Valaina's proposal. _Other Organiser the rule governing the use of specialised tourist vehicles. Given that it is governed by special legal provisions, it is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U617	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U618	90. - Mr Valaina's proposal. It is also about the same thing as the 89th proposal, in a different version. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U619	Members shall not object. ( The ring of noise.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U620	Can I continue? I didn't hear it. Yeah? 91. - Mr Valaina's proposal. The Council shall provide for the right to impose penalties for non-compliance with the levy on holidaymakers and tourists. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U621	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U622	92. - Mr Valaina's proposal. Seems like a new - 7. - as in proposal 91. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U623	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U624	93. - the proposal of the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pleis. Article 48(8) shall be clarified. Partially supported, included 94. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U625	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U626	94. - a proposal from the committee responsible. In Article 48, first paragraph, point 8 is added. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U627	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U628	95. - Mr Valaina's proposal. Exceptions to binding provisions which are not subject to public consultation shall be provided for. There is no support in the Commission. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U629	Members want to vote. Please call me! Let's vote in 95. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U630	96. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U631	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U632	97. - Mr Valaina's proposal. The procedure of regulation regarding the transmission of binding regulations of the council to the relevant institutions for the submission of an opinion shall be updated. Partially supported, included 98. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U633	Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U634	98. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Provision shall be made for the second paragraph of Article 49 to be reworded. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U635	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U636	99. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Following extensive discussions, it is envisaged that the words “or Ministry of Economics” should be excluded. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U637	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U638	100. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It is envisaged to add a new paragraph on the publication of binding provisions to Article 49. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U639	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U640	101. - Member Valaiņa's proposal... And so do 102. - Minister Pleis's proposal... It is envisaged to exclude paragraph 1 of the first paragraph of Article 51 that the municipality shall indicate in the statutes the administrative territorial division of the municipality. In view of the fact that this could not be determined for national cities, the Commission supported proposal 101.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U641	Members support proposals 101 and 102.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U642	Thank you. 103. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. It is planned to extend the scope of the persons to whom the information published in the information publication of the municipality applies, indicating that it also explains the policy of the municipality. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U643	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U644	Dear colleagues, I'm calling... I will be speaking right away on two proposals - on this and on proposal 105 - which are, in a way, linked. I call, colleagues, however, here to retain the right of local authorities to decide their own information material on these local government information expenditures even before the third reading is examined. The procedure currently included in this draft law provides that the Cabinet of Ministers will decide on what the information report of municipalities will be. In my opinion, it would be only normal if every municipality in Gulbene, Marupe, Jelgava - wherever there are these informative expenditures... if they retain the opportunity to decide for themselves what this information publication is. At this point in time, this concept is that it will be decided by the government... On the other hand, if you want to make sure that these information expenditures reach the goal of getting citizens to know what is going on in their municipality, then the way in which it is best to do it is best to leave it to the municipality itself. If we create them as such oat flakes - all in the same form and size, in the same style - I do not think that this will be the best way to reflect the identity of municipalities, other issues that can be achieved with these informative publications. I call for support for this and proposal 105.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U645	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U646	Given that the issue of information expenditure was not only debated in its entirety. 13 Saeima, but also 12. In the Saeima, Commission 103, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U647	Please call me! Let's vote in favour 103. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 23, against - 46, abstaining. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U648	104. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Specifys which citizens are informed about in municipal information publications. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U649	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U650	105. - Mr Valaina's proposal. The norm that the visual presentation requirements of the local government edition are ruled out (Interface: “Votesēm!” ) The Cabinet of Ministers. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U651	Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 105. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 22, for - 46, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U652	106. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Aid included in 107. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U653	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U654	107. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U655	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U656	108. - Mr Valaina's proposal. The provision relating to commissions established on the basis of special laws shall be specified. Partially supported, includes 109. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U657	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U658	109. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Clarifying the rule. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U659	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U660	110. - Mr Valaina's proposal. The first paragraph of Article 59 is provided for in a different wording, according to which the councils of the population form a representative of the town and parish interests of the municipality. The version of the second reading provides for the representation of the interests of local communities. The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U661	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U662	111. - Member Pimenova's proposal. It is envisaged to extend the range of individuals who may be on the board of the population. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U663	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U664	112. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The provision on board members shall be specified on the basis of proposals made by the social partners. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U665	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ainars Barkis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U666	Well, my colleagues, I'm coming to have a hard heart. We talked last time... What's that? Since old movies are collapsing, are they? We have the text at second reading: ‘A natural person who is: (1) at the age of 16; (2) a national of a Member State of the European Union and registered in the Register of Natural Persons may be a member of the Board.’ No, no! The Register of Natural Persons disappears and remains numb. Once again, we will lay Russian citizens inside those citizens' councils? Non-citizens? What else are we gonna put in there? Come on, stop chaffing! ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U667	I closed the debate. For the Commission, please... Is that so? For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U668	As I have already mentioned, this issue has been widely debated, especially with the social partners, and of course it has been compared with the functions and competences that the councils have conferred on them. I remind you that 112. - the Commission's proposal was supported. ( Interface: “Let’s vote! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U669	Please call me! We will vote for 112. - Proposal submitted by the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U670	113. - Mr Valaina's proposal. Clarifying the rule. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U671	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U672	114. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Additional provided that the law on the councils of the population provides for the procedure in which the municipal institution examines applications of the council of the population. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U673	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U674	Dear colleagues, I wanted to add to the proposal 114 to the citizens' councils. I think it is significant what the President of Latvia said today morning, speaking to all of us, that he hopes that this draft law will bring together representatives of citizens' communities, that they will have the opportunity to be elected. Unfortunately, this Saeima has missed this opportunity. What has been voted here under the title of "Popular Council" is a fiction about this institution. This is a disguised eye, because what was needed in administrative territorial reform is, by nature, a lower level of government, elected institutions with functions, funding, not interest clubs, where you can meet together and discuss issues that are important for regions. Lower-level municipalities are elected. The President of Latvia spoke about this, and a number of experts spoke about it. Colleagues, all its administrative territorial reform, precisely for the reason that the Saeima has not resolved this essential nuance in this bill, will have to be reviewed first. I do not rule out that any of the communities that are also actively addressing the Saeima - for example, the Suiti community is already actively addressing the Saeima with various questions about this element of representation - could also go and challenge the “Development/Par!” in the Constitutional Court as well. driven by the genetic reform. Colleagues, this genetic reform, if we do not include this principle in this draft law, is essentially gone. Drive around the regions! I've already met my colleagues today who have told... he has gone to the regions and is facing reality. Yes, as the former municipality has become a remote region, they are not heard by them, the region is too large. The sense of the municipality has been lost. And this title in this bill was an opportunity to bring their meaning back. You missed this opportunity. The Constitutional Court also pointed out that the Saeima must resolve the representation of the population, respect for the interests of community law. This is not achieved here. Dear colleagues, I call on you to reflect on this and to understand now that administrative territorial reform will have to be reviewed.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U675	Colleagues, I am closing the debate. But we are now deciding on proposal 114, which is supported by the Commission. Is there anything to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U676	I want to say something about the councils. Generally speaking, a compromise was reached as a result of a very extensive work, but this specific proposal already concerns the work of the Councils... 114. - the Commission's proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U677	Are Members asking for a vote on 114? No vote shall be taken. Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U678	115. - Mr Valaina's proposal. The use of the participating budget shall be specified and extended. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U679	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U680	116. - Mr Valaina's proposal. The size of the participating budget is expected to be reduced. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U681	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U682	117. - Mr Valaina's proposal. It also intends to reduce the size of the participating budget. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U683	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U684	Dear colleagues, I just want to remind you that one of the main initiators of this proposal is, in a way, the municipality of Riga, which is represented by many of you. If you count this amount, which it means in real figures against the municipal budget, then what is now voted... The sum of it is many times... It's quite big. If it is referred to as a minimum amount, for a smaller municipality it has one story, but for a larger municipality, with a larger population, it is a certain challenge. And I referred specifically to the call of larger cities, including Riga, for which this fixed percentage was too high. So think about your vote. In a way, your own colleagues from the municipalities have asked for it. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U685	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U686	The Commission took note of the estimates and the budgetary impact at the meeting and, however, divided 117. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal is not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U687	Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 117. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U688	118. - Mr Valaina's proposal. Expanding the use of the participating budget. The Commission is not supported either.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U689	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U690	119. - Mr Valaina's proposal. The terms and conditions of the contribution from the participating budget shall be specified. Partly supported, included 120. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U691	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U692	120. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Clarifying the rule. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U693	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U694	121. - Mr Valaina's proposal. Provision shall be made for a distinction to be made between projects for the implementation of participating budget projects concerning investment in municipal ownership and projects carried out by the citizens' initiative. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U695	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U696	122. - Mr Valaina's proposal. Editative clarification. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U697	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U698	123. - Mr Valaina's proposal. Provision is made for the first paragraph of Article 67 to be reworded as regards the suspension of unlawful binding provisions. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U699	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U700	124. - Mr Valaina's proposal. The proposal to change the procedure for the removal of the Chair of the Council from office shall, in essence, be equal to the proposal not supported by the Saeima at the second reading. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U701	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U702	Colleagues! The procedure that exists now in Latvia when a politician can evaluate the work of a politician, in my opinion, is not to be supported. I understand the enormous desire to implement this instrument. This instrument has been used several times, it is threatened, politically threatened, and it is becoming increasingly popular in Latvian policy. Whether that minister is sitting here today or someone else, as long as this norm is in this law, which is more like that of the Soviet period, this norm will become increasingly a political instrument in the fights of politicians, which can turn against any political power at some point. What I offer is to keep this opportunity. Indeed, if there is a wish and conviction and the facts are established that the Chairman of the Council has not done something correctly, this possibility exists. Only the Minister has to do this in an accelerated procedure through court, but that court is the one that evaluates whether or not the President of the Council has complied with the law. In this case, this is a single act of the Minister, and I think that this approach should not be retained in the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U703	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U704	As I have already mentioned, this issue has been widely debated, already at second reading, and the Saeima has already voted on a similar proposal in substance. The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U705	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 124. - Member Valaina's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U706	125. - Mr Valaina's proposal. It is envisaged to provide a framework for the Minister to give the Council the opportunity to decide on the removal of the Chairman of the Council in accordance with the arguments put forward by the Minister. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U707	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U708	126. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U709	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U710	127. - the proposal of the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pleis. In Article 71, first paragraph, point 3, the word ‘current’ shall be deleted. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U711	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U712	128. - Mr Valaina's proposal. Like 129, 130 and 131. - intends to update the wording of Article 72 on restrictions on municipal officials. Proposal 128 provides that a member of the Council may or may not be the head of an institution. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U713	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U714	129. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Article 72 shall be specified. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U715	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U716	130. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The first paragraph of Article 72 shall be excluded. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U717	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U718	131. - Adamovich's proposal. Article 72, second paragraph, point 4 is replaced by the following: In essence, the norms of the law currently in force remain. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U719	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U720	Colleagues! In my opinion, working on a draft law at both second and third readings, several mistakes have been made in the question of what positions can be combined by municipal councillors. At the final stage of the adoption of this draft law, I would very much urge you to support this proposal by Mr Adamovič, because it is such a conditional last opportunity to correct these errors and at least to maintain these restrictions at a reasonable level. I call for support, and I think a number of local workers will appreciate this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U721	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U722	In the Commission, Mr Adamovič's proposal was not supported by a majority. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U723	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 131. - Adamovich's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U724	132. - Mr Valaina's proposal. Provides for a percentage... determine the amount of taxes to be charged to the municipal budget from the income from personal income tax of the general budget of the State. The proposal is, in substance, equal to the proposal which was not supported by the parliamentary session at second reading. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U725	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U726	133. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Article 74 shall be supplemented by a new fifth paragraph. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U727	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U728	134. - Mr Valaina's proposal. Editable. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U729	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U730	135. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U731	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U732	136 - Mr Valaina's proposal. Provision shall be made for the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development to impose an obligation on the State Audit Office to carry out extraordinary financial audit of the municipality. This is contrary to legal provisions. The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U733	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U734	137. - Mr Valaina's proposal. In Article 79, second paragraph, the word ‘Commission’ shall be replaced by ‘other institutions’. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U735	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U736	138. - Mr Valaina's proposal. Article 81, fifth paragraph, is replaced by the following: There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U737	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U738	139. - the proposal of the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pleis. Provision shall be made for the exclusion of Article 84, specifying the numbering of the following Articles. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U739	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U740	140. - Mr Valaina's proposal. It is envisaged to add a new transitional provision to postpone until 1 January 2024 the requirement for audiovisual live coverage of a Council meeting. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U741	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U742	141. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It shall be provided to supplement the transitional provisions by a new paragraph, which shall postpone the requirements of this Law for the employees of the municipal administration until 1 January 2024. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U743	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U744	142. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. The time limits shall be specified. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U745	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U746	143. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is envisaged to exclude point 5 of the transitional provisions. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U747	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U748	144. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The time limits shall be specified. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U749	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U750	145. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It is envisaged to exclude point 7 of the transitional provisions. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U751	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U752	146. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Paragraph 8 of the transitional provisions shall be deleted. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U753	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U754	147. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It is stipulated that the restrictions on the reconnection of the office of a member of the Council provided for by this Law shall apply to the members of the Council elected as of the beginning of the 2025 municipal elections. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U755	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U756	148. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The obligation to set up an internal audit system as set out in Article 78 shall be specified from 1 January 2023. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U757	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U758	149. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The provision on associations and foundations shall be specified. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U759	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U760	150. - a proposal from the committee responsible. This also clarifies the rule on associations and foundations. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U761	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U762	151. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The time limits shall be specified. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U763	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U764	152. - a proposal from the committee responsible. This also clarifies the deadlines. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U765	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U766	153. - Mr Valaina's proposal. Provides a task for the Cabinet of Ministers - until February 1, 2023 to prepare a programme to reduce the effects of the outskirts in the municipalities' territories. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U767	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U768	Dear colleagues, I was not prepared to come forward today to defend this particular proposal, but since I hear that the Conservative Party has reservations against this proposal, I would like to explain what this proposal is about. Colleagues! The proposal gives the government the task of preparing by 1 February 2023... I think it is quite a long time to prepare and submit to the Saeima a plan, a programme to reduce the effects of the outskirts in newly created municipalities. Colleagues, that's the problem. This was a problem with the previous level of local authorities. At this level, municipalities... For example, in Dobele, Tērvete is already a remote region. And far away from Tērvete... the parishes, too... more formed into the outskirts. It's a serious problem if you're in such large areas... make them operate according to economic principles. The economic principle affects money to the center. And that will happen in every municipality, and the outlyings will have to help. Whatever the politicians try... One name will be held against this aim, and the other one they already... will vote accordingly, and this money will flow to the center. And if there is no specific public support programme to reduce the outlying effect, there will be fewer and fewer people living in the countryside. I understand the Conservatives and other parties as well... Development/About!... equality in this matter... I would say indifference is how you can symbolise it. Colleagues! I call on you to keep, at least symbolicly, such a record, such a task for the government - at least to think about these issues. The government had a programme of development plans for municipalities, business development plans for municipalities. There was a working group, but it was eliminated, it's not like that anymore. As if all the issues had been resolved. But the liquidation document recorded the fact that the problem is so much that it is not really possible to find solutions. I call on you to keep... and put pressure on the government to address these issues, otherwise... they won't take place by themselves.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U769	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U770	I remind you that 153. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U771	Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 153. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 25, for - 42, for - 6. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U772	154. - Mr Valaina's proposal. Provides a task for the Cabinet of Ministers - until February 1, 2023 to prepare a state programme for support of municipal administrative centres. The proposal has been supported by the Commission. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U773	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 154. - Member Valaina's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 25, for - 44, for - 4. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U774	155. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The provision shall be clarified by stating that the law shall enter into force on 1 January 2023. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U775	Let us start a debate. The name of the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Arthur Tom Pleš.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U776	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Dear Members, honourable Members, Over the past four years, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development has managed to implement several major reforms, and today is another significant day in the country's further development. A little more than a year after the entry into force of the administrative territorial reform, another ambitious reform of local government governance, which marks a change of age and mindset, has now come to an end. The President of Latvia also highlighted in his speech this morning the importance of these two reforms in promoting the growth of the country. The Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development has worked on drafting this law for a long time and purpose, as almost 30 years have passed since the previous law was adopted in 1994. It is clear that significant improvements are needed. This law is not just about municipalities. The people of Latvia, especially in the regions, long deserved a new legal framework that is compatible with today's day, which will promote democratisation and allow citizens to be more fully involved in the work of municipalities. Today, perhaps more than ever, it is necessary to strengthen civil society and promote the development of democratic processes in every municipality of Latvia. The new Municipal Law is a step towards encouraging society to participate in important national processes. We are talking about a participatory budget, we are talking about a collective application, we are talking about greater public involvement in a wide range of directions. The law also provides that the use of digital solutions will require much more and more significant than has been the case so far (e.g. by providing live broadcasts for council meetings). You can also discuss specific cases where the council meeting can take place remotely. It is important that the law will separate the decision-making power from the executive power much more clearly. The competences of institutions and officials have been clarified, promoting separation between political and administrative power and improving the performance of functions. The responsibility of municipalities has also been specified, clearly stating that from 2024 each municipality must be the police of the municipality; this will promote both public order and security in all regions of Latvia. In order to optimise the procedure for drawing up and monitoring binding rules, a number of innovations have been introduced (e.g. establishing the competence of sectoral ministries to verify the legality of binding rules before they enter into force). As I said, new participatory tools are also foreseen, which will be very important for much closer and more focused work to involve citizens in decision-making on the ground. If we talk about municipal budgets, administrative territorial reform has already proven that larger municipalities are able to attract more investment more successfully, and - even more importantly today - they are able to face the challenges and other challenges of the energy crisis much more successfully. The smarter use of resources, the pooling of powers, the strengthening of democracy and the more active involvement of civil society in the decision-making process are prerequisites for more balanced and faster regional development. I would therefore like to say a great deal of thanks today to all the ministries involved in grinding this bill, to non-governmental organisations and representatives of political parties and, in particular, to the head of the committee responsible, Inga Goldberg. - A representative of the Legal Bureau...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U777	Minister, we...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U778	... Edvin Danovskis, who helped bring this bill to the end. Dear Members, I call for support for this proposal, and I also call for support for the draft legislation at final reading, because this law will help the past approach to municipal governance to be left in the past. The future is openness, involvement...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U779	Thank you...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U780	... and in a letter of cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U781	Thank you, Minister. I think Members will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U782	Thank you. Support this proposal and support this draft law as well. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U783	We were looking forward to your speeches on other proposals that would have been worth explaining and on which there was a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U784	Madam President, Sir, I cannot fail to respond to your arguments that this is a significant day, that these are far-reaching reforms - a change of age. That could be accepted. I compare this reform... Just like (The Hall of Noise.) your deposit system... Populist, loud... Yes, there is a new law, but if we look at the content, what has changed in substance? In this new, modern law, which you like to praise and call, in essence 80 percent - it is the old law, just arranged a little differently. The innovations that are in the law are based on the shoulders of municipalities. A number of municipalities are already doing this. Municipalities are facing new challenges which are not being followed by funding. The activation of this law and many different administrative issues - it will also be a big question as to how it will work in life. Of course, it cannot be said that everything is bad; there are also good things in the course of the bill... I think there are administrative cases that are organised in the course of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U785	All right, thank you, Mr. Valains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U786	I'm talking about... that it's going to happen...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U787	The nature of the proposal is...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U788	Yeah, I know.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U789	1 January of the following year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U790	Yeah. And it should be noted that after the law enters into force, the new Saeima will have the opportunity to significantly improve this law. There are things that will need to be improved here, and the main thing is the treatment of municipalities. ( The ring of noise.) The attitude that has been in these years has never been before - total disregard, staring from above. Colleagues, this law will not improve the activities of municipalities. The Saeima this was an opportunity to adopt a law that would, in substance, improve, try to correct this administrative territorial reform, but it was not done. And that's the biggest mistake of this Saeima. Colleagues, I hope that the next Saeima will come to this law before it enters into force and will correct it - and in the most important matters. It is the outskirts of these large municipalities - the outskirts are those who suffer. These municipalities will not be able to meet regional challenges. This law could help, but unfortunately it does not help. It remains only at the level of headings. New, modern, but content - nothing.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U791	Name of Member Inga Goldberg.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U792	Colleagues, I call for support for this proposal and also for the whole draft law. And I would like to point out, however, that very much work has been done in this time and very many difficult compromises have been reached. And, despite the final vote, I would like to point out that in the Commission I listened very carefully and respectfully to the social partners, the responsible institutions, which participated with great dedication in all the meetings of the Commission and in the many working groups. And thank you for your contribution. I will also take this opportunity to thank Edvins Danovskis, the Senior Adviser of the Legal Bureau, for his invaluable contribution, high professionalism and positive attitude. Thank you to all employees of the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, especially Kristīne Vītola and Anita Kronberga, and of course to colleagues of the Commission for their constructive work and patience. While hearing the reaction in the Chamber, a colleague said that it must be said that colleagues are not interested at all. But for municipalities, for municipal workers, although perhaps not so modern and so topical, it is very important and I hope it will help to improve work. I therefore call for support for this proposal, which provides for the entry into force of the law on 1 January 2023, and the draft law as a whole, so that local authorities have a good basis for improving their work. And I call for this law to be further developed with rapid change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U793	Thank you. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U794	Dear colleagues, As for January 1, 2023, when the Municipal Law enters into force, it is the greatest mistake of the Ministry, because this law should have been before the administrative territorial reform came into effect. That's the point number one. The Prime Minister's speech. Well, naturally... The Latvians have a good saying: “What a dog’s tail will rise, if not himself.” In this case, it is true that the words of appreciation that were given to the partners, to the staff of the committee, to Mr Danovska, to all the others - and this shows one thing - had done a huge amount of work to remedy its problems and to correct the mistakes that were incorporated in the original version, because, I am sorry, this is an extremely rare case where 155 proposals have been put forward for the third reading. ( Interface: “Well yes, but it has already been presented by Valainis. ” ) That is why these things need to be evaluated in a self-critical way. I call for this draft law to be supported. I believe, however, that it has played its positive role, although it leaves some unanswered questions. For example, what Mr Valaiņa also spoke about today, when he spoke about the local government police, is not a matter of law on the police, nor of budget funding. And so on, and so on. It is as important as the issue of demining, but technically this has not been resolved, and the municipalities will have to start this work from the beginning, from the end. In any case, however, this work has been invested and it is positive, because it is the basis for us to move forward in improving the work of municipalities, because the municipalities are really in a very difficult, very difficult situation today - they are imposing additional duties, imposing additional functions, but unfortunately not helping to fulfil its functions. And so, by the way, is one of the problems of the Ministry, that the Ministry is the supervisor of municipalities, but it is not the defender of municipalities in the Cabinet and Parliament. I call for support for the proposal, the draft law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U795	Thank you. Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U796	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Sir, Ladies and gentlemen! This Law shall enter into force on 1 January 2023. This is the main law of municipalities. As you all know, municipalities are the main provider of services to citizens of our country, each of us - every citizen of Latvia lives in a municipality. And when you look at this bill and listen to this self-expression, you get the impression that everything would be fine in Latvia, as there would be no war in Ukraine, as civil protection would be excellent for us, as the municipalities would not face new challenges. Yesterday, speaking with the city of Jēkabpils, for example, I heard some despair... When they open purchases for new electricity prices, where there are more than 50 cents per kilowatt-hour... whether or not electricity is used on Monday or Sunday... to the entire municipality, to all capital companies, to the hospital, to the school... they understand that they will have to turn the city off the current in just a few months' time. What are the solutions from the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development? With January 1, 2023, we are imposing new functions - perhaps good functions... participation in the budget and so on, but as nothing else would be... Local governments are now preparing for very heavy winter, for two winters. In municipalities purchases - wood, pellets, chips. Prices are unpredictable, no one can guarantee a stable price on January, February. A we self-seeking as if nothing happened in the municipalities, as if everything were fine. Colleagues, there are two very difficult winters ahead of us, and this law places many new responsibilities on the municipalities, new functions, yes, good, but we do not give funding. What does the Latvian Municipal Union say about this law? It's ignored. ( The utterance: “Funny things! ”) ) Talk, colleagues, read on many points. No money is given to the new functions. Dear colleagues, take a drive in the counties! You're driving... Now the campaign goes full swing to everyone... Talk to people, especially in remote regions of Latvia! Colleagues! This law will have to be changed, so the functions will also have to be reviewed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U797	Thank you. I closed the debate. Yeah... Colleagues, there is a roll of Saeima's order, as we do. In the second and third readings of the draft law, we are talking about the specific proposal that is on the agenda - only on this proposal. However, we also have a parliamentary tradition - that there is an opportunity to speak a bit conceptually at final reading. Thank you for this debate. There are, of course, still issues that have not been resolved to the end, and they will still have to be answered. Is there anything for the last, technical, proposal on behalf of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U798	No, no. I invite you to support... And I remind you that 155. - the Commission's proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U799	Are Members willing to vote? Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U800	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the third, final reading of the draft law on municipalities.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U801	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Legislative Law” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 67, against - 3, refraining from - 6. The law is passed. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U802	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U803	Dear colleagues, Members Ainars Latkovskis, Vita Anda Steel, Krišjānis Feldmans, Rihards Kols and Iveta Benhen-Beeken are asking for a break at the third reading of the draft law “Legislative Law” until 9 a.m. on 15 September this year. We must vote on this. Please call me! Let us vote for a break until 9 a.m. on September 15, this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 74, for - no, for - 1. Colleagues, so we have decided to break it by 9 a.m. on September 15, this year. On today's plenary session to answer Members' questions. An urgent question to the Prime Minister about your avoidance to respond to questions about your government’s promised “energy security plan” has been submitted to Rubika, Clementyeva, Kucina, Tretjak and Tutina. The question was referred to the Minister for Economic Affairs. The respondents are not satisfied, but the supplementary oral questions are not open to Members. The urgent question to the Minister of Agriculture of Rubika, Klementyeva, Kucina, Tretjaka and Tutina about your avoidance to provide answers to the questions “On the situation in the Latvian wood market”. The written responses are not satisfactory, but the supplementary oral questions are not open to Members. The urgent question of Members Rubika, Klementyeva, Kucina, Tretjaka and Tutina regarding your avoidance to give answers to questions “On the truthfulness and reasonableness of your public statements regarding the supply of natural gas to Latvian consumers” is an issue”. The written replies received are not satisfactory, but Members do not wish to ask oral supplementary questions. Urgent question for Members Rubika, Clementyeva, Kucina, Tretjaka and Tutina to the Prime Minister “On your avoidance to provide answers to questions about “booking” of gas needed by Latvian households”. The question was referred to the Minister for Economic Affairs. No written reply was received. There is also no information on oral response. So today's answers to Members' questions are out of the way, because Members do not want to ask additional questions. Questions have been put to Members. The Members Cilevičs, Lochmele, Kucins, Krišāns and Tutin presented the question “On the issue of visas to the returnees”, which we submit to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for reply. Members Cilevičs, Lochmele, Kucins, Krišāns and Tutin presented the question “On the situation in the field of repatriation”, which we submit to the Minister of the Interior for response. Members Petraviča, Pucens, Krapāne, Ģirgens and Možvillo submitted the question “On the resources used (materials and labour) to ensure the security of Riga Praida event in 2022”, which we hand over to the Minister of the Interior. And Members Stepanenko, Gobzems, Sprūde, Švecova and Vilciņš asked “On disconnection of the villages of Skulte and Cleanlines from the supply of electricity”, which we submit to the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development for reply. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name For Inese Voika to read the registration results.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U804	Colleagues! Not registered: Arvils Asheraden (Dep. A. Asheraden: “And!” )... yes, Dagmara Beitnere-Le Galla, Boris Cilevičs, Anda Čakša, Jānis Dombrava, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, Ilmars Dūritis, Raivis Dzintars, Aldis Gobzems (Dep. A. Gobzem: “I am!” )... Gobzems is Janina Jalinska, Nikolai Kabanov, Armands Krauze, Maris Kučinskis, Regina Ločmele, Maris Možvillo, Ralphs Nemiro, Ramona Petraviča, Didzis Šmits, Jānis Urbanovičs and Evita Zālīte-Gross.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-09-08-PT13-2406-U805	Thank you. Interruption until 9 a.m. on 15 September this year. ( Interruption)
