ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U1	Dear colleagues, We will begin to review the agenda of the remote extraordinary sitting of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 3 February 2022. First of all, the amendments tabled to the agenda of the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau. Members Schnore, Dombrava, Indricsone, Izalnieks and Jansons are asking to exclude from the agenda the draft law “Law on Good Will Compensation for the Jewish Community of Latvia”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? Members have not applied, there are no objections. The draft law is excluded from the agenda of the sitting. Dear colleagues, the Cabinet of Ministers has asked for changes to the agenda of the sitting and to exclude from it the draft law that has already been examined and adopted on 27 January this year, namely the draft law “Law on measures to reduce exceptional increases in energy prices”. This bill is therefore withdrawn and the agenda of the sitting is excluded. The agenda for the sitting will start to be examined. Reports by the Bureau on draft legislative acts submitted. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Welfare Organisations” submitted by Member Dūrīss, Kursītes-Pakules, Pūce, Adamovičs, Skrides, Zalītes-Gross, Voika, Baumane and Steinas be referred to the National Administration and Municipal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as the Commission on Social Affairs and Labour. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Ilmārs Dūritis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U2	Hello, very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! High honourable Members! Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. On 13 January, with the vote of the Saeima, we adopted amendments to the Social Company Law at final reading. The amendments set out the requirements and criteria for granting the status of social enterprise as well as the characteristics of social enterprise. These amendments will greatly help and facilitate work to be able to assess more carefully companies that really qualify for social company status and also to award social enterprise in a fairer way... the proposed aid. The main objective of social enterprise, as we know, is to create social impacts, not to make profits. Social enterprises are engaged in entrepreneurship aimed at providing and identifying social benefits for groups and society as a whole and whose impact is essential for tackling major societal challenges. Similarly, these amendments to the Social Company Law provide for the right for public benefit organisations to set up enterprises, but provided that they have to obtain the status of social enterprise within six months of their establishment. Why are there amendments to this law, the Law on Social Welfare Organisations? There is a situation where, by means of the Social Company Law, we provide for public benefit organisations to set up businesses, but the Public benefit organisations law does not yet allow them to do so. And in order to prevent this situation, we, the signatories to these amendments, are calling for support for the proposed amendments to the Law on Public Goods Organisations so that the rules laid down by these two laws can be harmonised and thus also allow public benefit organisations to set up businesses - provided that they have to obtain the status of social enterprise within six months of their establishment. I would like to thank the Latvian Social Entrepreneurship Association very much for its efforts to improve and promote the Latvian social entrepreneurship environment, as well as to thank those 194 Latvian social enterprises who are taking part in daily life and solve societal problems. Colleagues! We must continue to find solutions for how the state and local government could further promote entrepreneurship - precisely those businesses with a high social impact - so I call on them and colleagues to support these amendments to the Law on Public Welfare Organisations and to support the transfer of this draft law to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government and, as a co-responsible commission, to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U3	Thank you. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on the Registration of Real Estate in Land Registers” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Detention Procedures” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Waste Management” presented by Member Zamura, Šadurska, Kursītes, Liepkalna and Nemiro be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Gatis Zamur.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U4	Hello, Madam President of the Saeima. Colleagues! At the moment, we in Latvia are in such a illogical situation that it is often more expensive to export sorted bio-waste than to export unsorted waste. This, of course, does not motivate people to separate waste, on the contrary - we are faced with situations where citizens do not use or even refuse sorting containers. If we all want to achieve climate neutrality together and achieve the objectives of the European Union directives, we need to change our habits, and this applies not only to those who have a question of identity and belief, but to us all together. These amendments provide that separate bio-waste collection will cost 20% less than unsorted bio-waste collection. This will motivate everyone to play a more active role in waste sorting. Thank you to the Members who supported these amendments. I also ask colleagues to support the transfer of this draft law to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U5	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Proliferation Management” submitted by Member Ģirgena, Pucena, Petraviča, Možvello and Švekova (No. 1314/Lp13) transferred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the Commission responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Kaspars Ģirgens.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U6	Good morning, colleagues! I think it's never too late to correct our mistakes, which maybe every one of us is... performed. And I will now talk about this mistake, which was voted and introduced by the Saeima - for the dismissal of unvaccinated workers - and, as a result, over 60,000 people lost their job opportunities. We can now look at data from the Central Statistical Administration. December... This decision taken by the coalition to free these people who have not been vaccinated... The figures show that unemployment has risen by one percentage point, which means that there are about ten thousand people who are now officially unemployed. Without these officially unemployed, there are certainly people who are currently working in the grey zone, who do not pay any tax. Just like... Many of these redundant workers have already moved abroad and will certainly not return in the near future, which means that we will no longer be extra... lack of tax revenues. As Members, we now have the opportunity, by supporting the draft law, to allow the unemployed to return to the labour market. Because at the moment, we are seeing these conditions that have stood up, and they are not simple. Somehow, for example, the rise in energy prices. The people made redundant certainly have families, children, they have to pay for electricity and gas right now; as I said earlier, food is getting more expensive. And, as you may well remember, you too voted against my proposal to allow them to receive unemployment benefits in the first month... We also see the current situation, where the new virus type omicrons enter Latvia at a rapid pace, either vaccinated or unvaccinated - this is no longer relevant, because everyone is ill. In my acquaintances too, vaccinated persons have already become sick... Even twice... with this virus. And there's such a illogical here - with which those unvaccinated people will be more dangerous than vaccinated persons, who also carry... Is that so? I do not deny the vaccination process because it has its own effectiveness, it has also shown in the statistics how much we can trust them - that vaccinees are less likely to get sick and perhaps to die. However, we also see the experience of the other countries. Lithuania, Estonia, as well as Norway... and elsewhere in Europe is already talking about the abolition of QR codes, the green area... Let's say, those who are in Latvia... cancellation, replacing with small restrictions, at least for a... use of masks in public transport. But the main emphasis is on the fact that... these countries are able to balance the fact that health and safety... there is also responsibility for economic operators. Because entrepreneurs are currently lacking a workforce that could work. And now with the omicron... we see that the next problem we will face is this quarantine... how long a person has to be in quarantine; likewise, if a person has been in contact... And that's a problem. If we look at the show yesterday... Domburst “What’s going on in Latvia?” Unfortunately, then, sadly, sadly - and I will say so - it remains when we hear that there is no plan for further action for the Latvian Government, as well as for the Members of the Saeima, at the moment. We hear about all these councils, cooperation meetings and many different working groups that should address this problem and provide us with information on how we will continue to live. If the epidemiologists have predicted the worst scenarios, then we too... in return it would be necessary to... As mentioned yesterday, there should be a plan for A, B, C and D, as we are moving... and these people, too, who have been made redundant and cannot work at the moment - under what conditions they could return to their employment relationship. Just as entrepreneurs should have had the necessary information - when, under what circumstances, they could work well, that is to work without restrictions and at the moment do not think about the bankruptcy that they could enter into. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I call on you to support this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U7	Thank you. Please call me! Vote on the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on the Management of communicable Diseases” (No. 1314/Lp13) transfer to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, making it a responsible commission! Please, let's vote! For - 35, for - 48, for - 1. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law on “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media” presented by the National Security Commission be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U8	Hello, honourable President. Dear Members, On 26 January, the National Security Commission examined the proposal prepared by the National Electronic Media Council "Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media" and adopted a decision on the submission of this draft law to the Saeima, with further progress to the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. What does this draft law determine? It provides and sets a framework for ensuring a more efficient on-demand service or, simply saying, video selection... guaranteed... Monitoring the performance of Internet sites by aligning statutory requirements with traditional media broadcast in video and audio formats. Of course, with a much simpler registration procedure. Immediately, they are neither videos (such as YouTube, Facebook, Spotify) placed on Internet sharing platforms, nor social networks. We are talking about special websites, the main features of which are audiovisual catalogues and editorial activities, and which, by their nature,... Even under the terms of the Audiovisual Media Services Directive, a service on demand should be regarded as exactly the same media as television and radio. Latvia currently operates about 50, but according to NEPT estimates, based on world trends, a few years later, the number of sites could even be ten times. Delfi TV and TVNET are examples of demand-side services that are already registered. Thus, these amendments to the law, which are intended to apply to the service on request the same statutory requirements regarding activities, including the security of the state as the traditional media, but to register them - the same registration procedure and rules as are currently laid down for websites ensuring the availability or unavailability of television channels... so-called pirate leaves. In other words, if you cannot find who this page is, who makes it up, who is the true beneficiary, then the NEPT may limit this page immediately. Any service on request must specify its contacts in accordance with the requirements of the law in order to be able to communicate and invite to register. If no contacts are specified on the website, it will be blocked. If the on-demand service page indicates contacts, then contacting the page is required to submit documents to start registration within 15 days. If you don't, you can block the page again in 15 days. Blocking does not mean that this page has been blocked forever. At any time after the submission of documents, it can be unlocked - become a legal media. The NEPT has also developed guidelines for their recognition. Seven features are clearly defined. They can be found on the website. These seven characteristics must be fulfilled at the same time. These are: video catalogue, similarity to the television service, content and other features. The industry has been introduced to the guidelines... which does not object to them. I invite you to support the handover of the bill... Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U9	Thank you. ‘ Against” applied to speak Member Boris Cilevičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U10	Thank you, President-in-Office. There is certainly a problem. It is very good that the Council is thinking about how to deal with this problem. But the way in which this draft law is being proposed does not sound convincing, to be honest, because first of all it is not clear why this draft law is being submitted directly from the National Security Commission. Well, the only reason is to show Members how important this problem is, and anyone who opposes it is actually against national security. However, this draft law will be in the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, and when this commission, which is constantly working on media issues, will continue to see the draft law... Then I don't see great meanings. Just like that, blow up the cheeks, so, sorry, simplified speaking. Secondly, on the substance. Unfortunately, the NEPT still seems to make the same strategic mistake. It is trying to apply the regulation that has been developed for traditional technologies - and it has been applied less or less normally - and to extend it to new technologies. This, forgive me, shows a lack of understanding of the specificities of new technologies, Internet technologies. It will not actually work, because there are too many allowances here and it is possible to bypass it on the Internet very easily. It's, I'm sorry, such an illusion that we're doing something... Basically, these proposed new restrictions, the extension of the rights of the Council to close, limit, prohibit, block and so on will not help. This is a really serious problem, as the actual option proposed will punish those service providers who are trying to work under all conditions. As far as piracy is concerned, we already have sufficiently developed regulations relating specifically to content, and there is no problem in determining whether or not content is pirated, regardless of the way in which it is distributed. That reference here to the fight against piracy is hardly right. So I'm very concerned that it's a shot over a strip, it's missed. Of course this problem needs to be addressed, but unfortunately... I very much hope that the newly elected Council is finally a specialist on technology issues and that it can help to find more effective solutions, but I am not prepared to support this bill in a clear way in the present way. I have great doubts, and the Group has great concerns about this matter. We also do not want to object, so the Group will abstain from this vote. For the first and for the second reading, we should all think together about how to make these measures more effective, because today, unfortunately, it looks more like a simulation of action than a really effective, modern solution. So I am not prepared to support this draft law in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U11	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media” to the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! For -67, for -1, for -14. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law on the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Chile on air traffic presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “On the Common Aviation Area Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part”, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Civil Service” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Members have asked for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Civil Service” to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions” to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! No, 64, no, 16, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Road Transport” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism and Proliferation” be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “The Law on Management of the European Union Funds 2021-2027 Planning Period” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Mr. Valaiņš, will you talk about it or 'no'?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U12	I will talk about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U13	“About” has applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U14	Dear colleagues, It is of course important that the draft law enters into force already in this part-session when the draft law is adopted. The commission responsible should make the greatest possible effort to be adopted now. However, I would like to highlight a few points... attention to the draft law and this programming period in general, and how it corresponds to Latvian policy planning documents. ‘ Latvia 2030, as well as the National Development Plan... In principle, in these documents and in any other - and, of course, further - municipal development strategies, every investment should be based on the next programming period. There are fundamental principles to be respected. One of the basic principles of each of these roofing planning documents is that Latvia is a polycentric development country, not a monocentric development country, where we concentrate investments in the central capital, but we look at how to develop regions in a balanced way. These documents have not been changed, and this proposed law seems to include the idea that this is the case. In my opinion, we should mention this much more specifically in the future development of this draft law. I have already indicated to you, colleagues, that, in the area of health, for example, the investments divided - Riga and the rest of Latvia - are disproportionately disproportionate. It is not normal that we invest almost 80 percent of all investments in the capital and leave the rest of Latvia less incomparably. Objectively, this will mean that these investments will go on... this development of territories... There will be more and more a crossover between Riga and other regions. More and more Riga will have to pay for the equalisation fund, and the load on capitals at the end of the day will be higher than if we still invest these investments in accordance with Latvia's strategic development plans as it is written there. When I get to know these plans, I can definitely say that this is not happening at the moment, that more and more these investments are concentrated and are becoming less and less concentrated in the regions. If we do not help regions to develop at national level, build internal cohesion policy, regions will fall behind and more and more will need more investment in order to help citizens in some way to live and hold them there, to make sure that there is quality of education, health services... at the level available to people. These are the challenges that should be dealt with by this law, but it seems that for the time being we have understandable policy planning documents, we have this management law, as it will be, but I think it is in this management law that we need to take seriously some kind of policy in the ministries... which as a result of the change would not depart from this basic principle... That is how we see our country. At the end, the next Saeima will wake up to the fact that these investments will be so distributed... it starts with these investments, which will lead to the regions lagging behind already to such an extent that it will require extremely large investments to be made in some way to balance, and I think it will not benefit anyone. This has to be done now, and I call for it to be done in the context of this draft law - now to support it and move forward, of course, but there is a need to work hard enough on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U15	Thank you. Mr. Don't die, will you speak 'no'?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U16	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. I call for the joint committee to be set up - the Commission for Sustainable Development.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U17	Thank you, thank you. So Members do not object to the referral of the draft law to the commission, but Mr Nemir calls for the co-responsible commission to be set up by the Commission for Sustainable Development. We must vote on this proposal. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission of the draft law “Law on the Management of European Union Funds 2021-2027”, which states that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Commission for Sustainable Development! Please, let's vote! For - 43, for - 30, for - 1. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. Dear colleagues, Time to break. There's also a record of Members. Registration is over. Interruption until 11 a.m. Let's get back to work at 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U18	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! We keep sitting after the break. On the agenda - Bureau reports. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Elections of the Municipal Council” be referred to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Exceptional Increase in Energy Prices” presented by the Member Valaiņa, Plant, Krauze, Tatars and Vacans (No. 1327/Lp13) transferred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the Commission responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U19	The President of the sitting. Dear colleagues, We have resubmitted this time the amendments to the Law on the Exceptional Price Reduction Measures for Energy Resources. In our view, the law adopted at the moment does not provide adequate support to mitigate, at an appropriate level, the crisis that has arisen as a result of rising energy prices. At the moment, the government has taken one sensible decision on heating. Of course, it could have been with even lower median. In many places this increase is still very painful, but at least it solves extremes, but the government has not proposed fully thought-out solutions for preventing electricity prices. This specific proposal is similar to what has already been proposed in our neighbourhood, and we still believe that this offer should be accepted. A reduction of the OIC... further payment from the public budget... as regards the tariff for the ‘Distributive grid’... taking over the public budget - these are not sufficient instruments, a price cap would be much more effective. And this bill also provides that we set a price ceiling for the price of electricity, but all that is above them is compensated by the government. Of course, it will pay, yes, but we now have to make this commitment. In January, all these December bills... Colleagues, our citizens cannot pay these bills. The support instruments currently proposed by the government are not sufficient. We will see - with the new invoices - that there will still be problems with the payment of invoices. The price of electricity is too high, the solutions proposed do not sufficiently cover the cost of electricity. Next chain... You understand yourself: services will become more expensive, in the store bread will become more expensive - it will become more expensive. Energy-intensive companies are currently trying to reorganise, but it is not so easy to do. There are also no support instruments here. It already leads, unfortunately, to the fact that there are entrepreneurs who cease their activities, because simply the production of products has a price that people cannot afford. This proposal gives a very clear answer to everyone by imposing a ceiling on electricity. The solution proposed by the government is not yet complete. In a way, it's trying to talk in some way... and help address this issue, but mathematics is and remains mathematics. We can't... By putting these forms of support together, we see that people, when they receive new invoices, will be in shock, just as they were just a moment ago. The shock will not change, maybe it will become a little bit smaller, but the fact that the bill has grown from EUR 100 to EUR 400 or from EUR 150 to 500, 600... these stories are different. I have already presented these stories to you at the moment. The fact that it will now be (from the EUR 150 that was up to now) not EUR 600, but EUR 500, is no longer a solution. We need to set a price ceiling for electricity in one way or another. Until we do so, these payments will be inexpensive for people. As soon as it comes together with the electricity price cap and with financial support, which is also included in this draft law, it will start to look like something. While this is not the case, the population will regrettably experience quite a shock treatment, which is currently taking place on electricity bills and which affects the life of every citizen of Latvia, especially the life of those who are most difficult to pay. And the worst thing is that the part of society that could have happened without these forms of support in the past is now facing very serious problems in paying electricity bills. I call for this proposal to be supported and submitted to the Commission for consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U20	One Member has spoken for. Members have requested a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law tabled by Mr Valaiņa, Mr. Plantis, Mr. Krauze, Mr. Tatars and Mr. Vucans, “Amendment to the Law on the Exceptional Increase in Energy Prices” (No. 1327/Lp13) transfer to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, making it a responsible commission! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 35, it's against - 50, it's not. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Exceptional Increase in Energy Prices” presented by the Member Valaiņa, Plant, Krauze, Tatars and Vacans (No. 1328/Lp13) transferred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U21	Colleagues! This proposal provides for a fixed-term solution for electricity... the increase, using tax policy instruments and thus applying a zero rate of VAT for a limited period of time, in order to provide immediate support to a maximum proportion of Latvian population in order to reduce electricity bills. On such a proposal, the members of the government have also discussed and discussed such an approach - that it could be effective enough and provide support to the people of Latvia. I understand that it seems to the coalition that they have done everything. Also in September, when it was warned about what the price shock would be if nothing was done... was warned. Then - in October, November - the coalition was told that this price increase, the clearly visible presentation of the events on the stock exchange, all the forecasts that took place... When the municipalities started these broken contracts... It was obvious what would end all of this... was warned, could carry out mathematical calculations of how much this... The cost of electricity will be one household. All this could be clearly counted, but the government did not do anything. On the other hand, he said: “We have done everything.” Colleagues! As early as January, the Prime Minister said that they had done everything. From this parliamentary troupe, our colleagues have tried to convince us that the government has already done everything, even though basic mathematical actions can show that forecasts of electricity bills show that they will be inexpensive. What's going on now? At present, the development/Par! political groups Juris Pūce has requested another vote on this issue, pointing out in a way that, in their view, everything has been done. Just like at the beginning of January, now, also in February, we can already say clearly and clearly that, no, not everything has been done! These invoices, taking into account support instruments already adopted... either is not enough to help Latvian entrepreneurs, citizens pay electricity bills. There must be more support for electricity directly. All that has been accepted is good, but that is not enough. And we do not need to hold a position right now that these discussions are out of place. This debate is right today, it is today that we have to talk about it and make decisions on the basis of some mathematical calculations. Now, in my opinion, the coalition has been guided by one mathematical calculation - how much will it cost? How much does it cost? How much will it cost, that, that's the solution? But at the end of the day, he has not looked at how it will be reflected in the population's bills. As I said, it's not the difference whether it's support... People don't care how many millions you've spent there - 100, 200... People are not required to invest airBaltic 100, 200, 300 million... This question is not addressed. But now people are served in such a way that everything has already been done. No, it's not done! More needs to be done and done as long as these electricity bills are paid to people. This is not the case at the moment. And it can already be said that the bills received in February will still be extremely large and inexpensive for people. The government and the Saeima must take some steps at this point in order to reduce this tension. I call for support for this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U22	Members have also requested a vote on this draft law. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law tabled by the Member Valaiņa, Plant, Krauze, Tatars and Vacans “Amendment to the Law on the Exceptional Increase in Energy Prices” (No. 1328/Lp13)! Please, let us vote in favour of the transfer to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Please, let's vote! It's not about - 39, it's against - 49, it's not. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Exceptional Increase in Energy Prices” presented by the Member Valaiņa, Plant, Krauze, Tatars and Vacans (No. 1329/Lp13) transferred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the Commission responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U23	Dear colleagues, First of all, thank you to at least one Member of the New Conservative Party who heard and has already joined the bill on zero-percent VAT on electricity. This is a step in the right direction, only some 10 other colleagues have to convince, and the life will start to improve for the people of Latvia. But for this. This draft law is a very concrete proposal to set EUR 200 for senior payment. I see that “Development/About!” still systematically believes that this should not be supported and has requested a vote on this issue. And maybe also for Development/About! The life of seniors is not its main priority. Clearly, these decisions... what has already been accepted, in some way, cannot argue, helps to solve the cost of life, but is that enough? I don't think so. If we (as I said earlier) were able to provide our seniors with a lump sum of EUR 200 a year ago, as we can say, today, compared to a year ago... the situation is more than twice as good as it was a year ago? Do you not feel that the situation is many times more difficult for seniors, many times more difficult for seniors? In my opinion, it would be only normal for seniors to be paid a lump sum of EUR 200 at this point in order to help deal with the December, January electricity bills, because these solutions do not solve the problem of the bills they receive. Citizens are not helped, especially seniors, with regard to bills that have already been received. You understand, however, that there is a huge group that does not qualify for any form of aid. For them, this EUR 20 or EUR 40 that could come to them will not help solve the problem that they have already received - they have received! - the failure of the government. That is what needs to be addressed! And I am not saying that, as the Latvian Pensioners Federation says. They have sent a letter to all the political groups, to the government, to the Speaker of the Saeima - all of them - clearly, reasoned in setting out the situation and asking for help. Instead, what answers do they get? Instead, they get the answer in essence: “Fair elders, your situation, in our view, has significantly improved compared with what it was a year ago.” I don't think so, my colleagues don't think so. That is why we have tabled this draft law and continue to insist that seniors should receive it. I also call on the Saeima to vote and express its position on whether or not seniors are currently entitled to 200 euros. In our view, it is appropriate and we call for support for this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U24	Members of Parliament have also requested a vote on this draft law. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law tabled by Mr Valaiņa, Mr. Plantis, Mr. Krauze, Mr. Tatars and Mr. Vucans, “Amendment to the Law on the Exceptional Increase in Energy Prices” (No. 1329/Lp13) transfer to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, making it a responsible commission! Please, let's vote! There's no one for - 37, against - 49, abstaining. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes the draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection” presented by Member Zariņa, Ivana Klementjeva, Kucina, Lochmele and Rubika (No. 1330/Lp13) transferred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Member Ivars Zarins has signed up to speak for’. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U25	Good afternoon, everybody! This proposal provides for the possibility for the system to be granted an interoperable human certificate on the basis of an appropriate antibody-positive analysis. Why are we once again updating the necessity and legitimacy of such an opportunity today? There are several reasons for this. And here I call on those Members who already know how they will have to vote on this proposal so that no further discussion of this proposal can be possible at the Saeima. So, in order to understand how necessary, reasonable and logical this is in the current situation, a little bit of a fundamental necessity. Clinical studies of vaccine efficacy in the third phase have shown that the efficacy of the vaccines, and thus the resistance of the immune system, is directly proportional to the level of neutralising antibodies in the body. A large study conducted in Israel analysing data from a third cord wave has shown that immunity resulting from the disease provides longer and stronger protection against infection than two doses of the vaccine. You can find out more about this in the annotation of this bill. For those who cannot find this annotation, the link to it can be found in the Delfi’s yesterday’s publication “How to survive the community’s winter without communion idiotism?” . The facts thus established mean, in turn, that if the certificate can already be issued and renewed for vaccinees, it would be all the more justified to do so in the case of flaked ones. And the objective criterion for this is the level of antibodies. Yes, in time, the level of antibodies in the blood decreases. And that is the main argument of the opponents of this proposal. If the moment of infection has not been documented, it is not possible to establish a safe term for the certificate, which could lead to uncontrolled epidemiological risks in humans. People will not be adequately protected, sick, hospitalised, overloaded and so forth, so they cannot afford it. The counters of these arguments are bound by the real facts, namely that in the previous wave of infection in the first nine months of last year, when we were dealing with a much worse type of community, a total of 11,354 people were hospitalized, of whom the re-infected were not vaccinated, so all of them with any antibody levels in the blood - high, low - made up only 23 people. 23 people for over 11 thousand - compared. Compare! This is in line with the information provided by the Ministry of Health itself on parliamentary questions. You can find a link to this information in the same Delfi publication. The relevance of this proposal is reinforced by the fact that in the existing framework, which states that a certificate can only be obtained if the subject has documented his illness, in the case of contagious omicrons, family doctor practices and testing laboratories are overloaded in order to obtain this documentary evidence. A huge resource is being spent on this supposed bureaucracy rather than on combating the spread of the virus and its consequences. With this proposal, we can change this situation by relaxing the practices and testing capacities of doctors. Of course, the certificate issued in this case will not be valid for this maximum six months, but it will be further defined by the Cabinet of Ministers with its own rules. At least for the time being, such a certificate should be used only in the territory of Latvia, because the European regulation does not provide for the use of such certificates for travel. If you ask for a fact-based proposal, that is it. There is no real counter-argument to this. Most likely, the only real reason why power does not want to deal with this situation and creates all these problems in the healthcare system is because this opportunity given to people will act contrary to the power to force people to vaccinate. Here I would like to point out that, in the present situation, such a power setting, where vaccination no longer limits the spread of infection and the true long-term effects of revaccination on the human body are not known, especially if vaccination is forced to take place without the fact that there has already been a crackdown, because it has not been documented, it is unlikely to be a responsible and adequate exercise of power. Maybe even seen as criminal. I would like to ask you to think about this by voting today. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U26	Members have also requested a vote on the referral of this draft law to the Commission. Please call me! To vote for the Member Ivars Zariņa, Ivana Klementyeva, Edgars Kucina, Regina Lochmele and Arthur Rubika's draft law on Covid-19 infection management (No. 1330/Lp13) transfer to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, making it a responsible commission! Please, let's vote! On - 37, against - 48, refraining from - 2. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. Ladies and gentlemen, on the agenda - under the heading 'On own-initiative proposals submitted'. Members Ramona Petraviča, Ieva Krapāne, Aldis Gobzems, Karina Sprūde, Maris Možvillo, Julija Stepanenko, Ralfs Nemiro, Eriks Pucens, Kaspars Ģirgens and Lubova Švecova have submitted a draft decision “On task for the Cabinet of Ministers to stop using Covid-19 certificates in the Republic of Latvia”. Are Members opposed to the examination of this own-initiative proposal at this sitting? Please log in. So I understand that the Member Juris Puce has applied to speak against. Please! Members have reservations.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U27	I have reservations.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U28	Yeah, thank you. So if Members have reservations, we must decide to put this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of the Saeima's next sitting. One Member can speak 'for', one for 'no'. Please log in. I understand that Member Ramona Petravič will talk about it. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U29	Dear President, Dear colleagues, The draft decision provides for the immediate withdrawal of the Covid-19 certificates and the lifting of any restrictions on persons without this certificate. At present, some 62,000 people are unable to work because they do not have a certificate. The situation so far has shown that the action of this part of society will not be as rapid as possible to vaccination, but probably the desire to overload the Covid-19 home to get this certificate. This is a clear indication of the absurd situation in which unvaccinated people find themselves because of the long-standing unthought-out political decisions. The immediate withdrawal of digital certificates is necessary for three main reasons. Thus, first of all, they illegally restrict the right of a person without a certificate. It has to be borne in mind that for more than a year a large part of the population has been denied access to essential services, free movement and even access to income... and just because of your free choice. From 15 February every day, hundreds and thousands of people will again be denied access to services. This will be done to force people to revaccinate, but it will, of course, also have an impact on entrepreneurs, whose income will fall, and the companies will not receive compensation. The European Union resolution on the impact of the Covid-19 measures on democracy makes it clear that restrictions should be legal and proportionate, i.e. diametrically contrary to what is currently in force. Secondly, they are divisive. The cohesion of society is the foundation of a stable country, whose division of people on the basis of vaccination status is undermined. The public scepter of prioritising one group of people is logical at a time when non-certificated families are deprived of income. Cumulation rates for several weeks have shown a tendency to become disproportionately more frequent among vaccinees, which means that the certificate does not protect against the disease. However, in the same way as the coalition, this inefficient text makes it possible to prioritise its own electoral group. Thirdly, the objectives of their implementation are no longer relevant. The primary objectives of the certificates were to facilitate free movement between the countries of the European Union and to encourage people to vaccinate. Travel restrictions throughout the European Union have decreased significantly, and the data from the SPC show that the excess of hospitalisation has decreased and, as I have already mentioned, those who have been vaccinated are ill. Similarly, there is a high rate of illness in schools, but is this why we separate our children from our parents? But no! In Western European countries such as Denmark and the United Kingdom, there is already a trend towards lifting almost all restrictions, as a large proportion of the population has already been overloaded and vaccination status is not a prerequisite for protection against unvaccinated virus. Our neighbour Lithuania also withdraws the certificates from 5 February. Do we really always have to be the last? And again we will be surprised that Latvians go to Lithuania to relax, get services, shop. Denmark decided to withdraw the certificates at a time when the incidence was high and increasing, and Denmark is now at the forefront of its disease in Europe. So the situation in Latvia is very similar. And I really do not have a clear reason to reject this decision. Moreover, it has been said from the government that we in the Baltic countries must have unified and harmonised restrictions. But while our government is thinking and thinking for another month, the neighbouring countries are doing so. The use of vaccination certificates has proven to be undesirable, ineffective and illegal for society. Therefore, I invite you to support the draft decision on the refusal of certificates in Latvia. Please support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U30	One Member has spoken for. We will vote. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision submitted by the Member Petravičas, Krapāne, Gobzema, Sprūde, Možvillo, Stepanenko, Nemiro, Pucena, Ģirgens and Svekova “On task for the Cabinet of Ministers to end the use of Covid-19 certificates in the Republic of Latvia” on the agenda of the next meeting! Please, let's vote! On - 37, against - 47, refraining from - 1. This draft decision is not on the agenda for the next sitting. So we will vote in favour of passing this draft decision on to the Commission. Please enable a section on the procedure. Are there any proposals to hand over one of the commissions? No proposals. So let's vote for... The draft decision is not... So the section... Thank you. I now give the floor to Member Ivars Zarins on the motivation for this draft decision. Please! ( Pause) Please log in. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U31	Good afternoon, everyone! WHY not participates in the political auction show for who will offer to cancel certificates faster. However, I, like a number of my fellow Members, supported this proposal because it is obvious that the system of restrictions, based on the existence of certificates, created by this power, is becoming increasingly illogical, unwarranted in the current circumstances, where those subject to restrictions are more infected than those who are confined out of them to prevent the infection from being transmitted. In the current circumstances (specificity of the spread of the omicron), the existence of the green, red regimes maintained by the power in many places is clearly illogical, even absurd, from the logic of limiting the spread of the infection. For example, by concentrating the unvaccinated red area, thus increasing the risk of infection there, we may at some stage achieve a reduction in the spread of infection in the green area, but naively imagine that these people will not then be mixed and that there will be no opposite effect. Moreover, the implementation of such separation not only causes damage to sectors, but also costs the state the millions that this power covers by borrowing and making us more indebted. Now the authorities themselves have already publicly acknowledged that the primary aim of these restrictions is not to limit infection but to force people to vaccinate. The focus on vaccination alone, by reinforcing it with restrictions to force people to vaccinate rather than to manage the communal crisis more effectively, is a fundamentally wrong strategy, especially in the current circumstances, where vaccination cannot limit the spread of infection. The fact that other tools to limit infection are also possible is indicated for this power on many occasions, e.g. air ventilation in the premises. However, this weak power does not want to take on this, because it means additional responsibility. The primary desire of power is obvious: to separate ourselves from responsibility in the hope that the situation will happen without greater involvement of power. Even now, this power does not want to do anything, because it does not know how to properly implement the abolition of these restrictions, which are linked to the certificate. Therefore, Latvia will once again be one of the last to take a decision that is adequate for this new situation, while continuing to pay dearly for the consequences of the inadequate application of the restrictions. The existence or absence of a certificate is no longer an objective criterion for determining, on the basis of its existence, restrictions on a part of the company. The time limit laid down in the decision - one month - is long enough to enable even this government to prepare for the abolition of certificates. In the meantime, even according to the predictions of the most apocalyptic experts, the wave of microbial spread will have broken and would be adequate if everything was prepared to remove the unnecessary restrictions at this point. It is unlikely that this power itself will be able to receive it on time, so I support the adoption of such a call. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U32	We have listened to a colleague's motivation. Thank you. Next on the agenda - the draft decision presented by Karina Sprūde, Māra Možvillo, Ramona Petraviča, Jūlija Stepanenko, Ieva Krapāne, Lubova Švekova, Romana Naudiņa, Erika Pucena, Kaspars Ģirgens and Alda Gobzems “On task for the Cabinet of Ministers to abolish the requirement to wear masks for children”. Does any Member object to the examination of this own-initiative proposal at this sitting? Please log in. Mr. Nemir, you have reservations... Do you have objections?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U33	Dear President, I wanted to talk about the previous issue in the context of the referral to the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U34	No, that is not possible, unfortunately. So do Members object to the examination of the draft decision at this sitting? There is no objection. We are starting to examine the draft decision. The name to Member Karin Scratch. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U35	Thank you, colleagues, you didn't mind. I hope that everything will work today, because the draft decision is very good, it is aimed specifically at children. It is very simple to draw up a regulatory framework by March 1, 2022, which provides for the removal of the requirement for the mandatory use of facial masks for learners up to class 7 in the educational process in the training space. I'll tell you a little bit of my experience at this time. For example, in the morning, I was cleaning a car, and a girl, a neighbor, came to me, and she is nine years old. I immediately saw that the girl had something with her face -- little bloats and a painful crust on her face. I asked her why she is not in school and what happens to her face at all. A very courageous and head - trained child told me: “I’m already big, and I’m not like the little ones who don’t wear masks. I will endure.” You know, I'm thinking up to this day about what we're doing with our children's souls and minds. What do those words mean for the child - “I will endure”? Why do our children, Latvia, need to suffer and bear this burden because of those who are susceptible to pressure... Not to mention that they are not only not working, but are also harmful. This is illustrated by statistics on both vaccinated and unvaccinated individuals, as well as by economic indicators and human immigration to other countries. What are we doing? I am now saying 'we' because I also blame myself for not being able to convince the majority of Members that the masks do not give us the protective effect we have been told about all this time. In September 2021 homeopate, family doctor and President of the Latvian Medical Society Ilze Aizsilniece published a letter on the social site Facebook addressed to the President of Latvia Egils Levit and Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš. In her letter she expressed indignation about an unthinking student testing system, as well as a negative attitude towards wearing face masks in schools. The family doctor said ten years ago that the problems of air quality had been raised... solving in schools, but for children sitting in masks, it doesn't give anything. Izsilniece also said that at present, the use of masks is certainly contrary to the recommendations of the World Health Organization. In Latvian schools masks are used not to increase epidemiological safety, but to punish a group of people, in this case children and young people. Is this a human and sustainable approach and, above all, a medically sound approach? A mask that is covered with pesticides or fabric masks that, after a few washings, sometimes separate the linings instead of protecting them, pose a serious risk to children’s health. The president of the medical association recommended that children in schools wear facial masks. To this day, neither the President nor the Prime Minister has raised this issue nor even responded to the requests made by experts or doctors. From 25 January, adults should only wear a medical face mask or - not lower than FFP2 - breathing equipment without a valve. But there is one “but” – students of educational institutions in basic and secondary education and vocational education programmes can use non-medical covers... and public transport will be able to use these - fabric covers. Does what is happening in the government conflict with professionals, doctors, and experts? It is precisely that the suggestions are ignored as to how they would be better. Does the health of our children be less important? Will responsibility for the consequences for Latvian citizens and children be followed? I don't think so. Last week, 73 individual Members received their parliamentary e-mail (Not clear.) an open letter signed by representatives of health care and clinics on the right of doctors to be free in their professional activities. In this letter it is mentioned that in Latvia it was initially distributed that face protection masks are not recommended because they create a false sense of security. Then - fabric mask protecting against infection... Finally, we have come to the point that only FP2 respiratory or medical masks are effective in stopping the spread of the virus. However, instead of these claims, it is likely that other statements, which will be based on even more recent studies, will be disseminated soon. As regards further research, it should be recalled that last year the government allocated funding to 10 projects. Every one of them is a value of half a million. For example, project manager Kaspars Tār worked on developing new therapeutic and preventive tools against Covid-19 and... coronaviruses. I am sorry, but last week, experts from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption were unable to give an answer as to whether therapeutic remedies, medicines from other countries to which they are available are being bought. Everyone is baffling and talking, and no answers were given to the question. Other questions too... How, for example, can you do so if your child’s self - testing is positive... but a child can reach the laboratory only after two weeks. This was the case with Sigulda. It is very sad and very sorry that children are being taken up in the political games. I was a little bit concerned with the question of research... It's about the year 2020... which will remain in our memory as an instruction for the cutting of cucumbers and tomatoes... But also in 2021, I do not think there is any reasonable research. For example, one is as follows: “The waiting bodies: the delay to vaccinate with a phenomenal analysis.” Project manager - Uldis Vēgners, funding - 300 000 euros. The second study - “The monitoring and non-interference of state institutions: practice of same-sex sexual subculture in Soviet Latvia, 1954-1991” - awarded 300 000 euros. Where are the other studies - those that would be logical, in line with the current situation? There's no such thing. Why do we not study, for example, the impact of masking on children's physiological development, psychological development, mental development? Where are the studies on child socialisation in the Covidean period? No such studies have been performed. Why are we not talking about an increase in suicide rates among minors? Why are we not talking about whether vaccines really provide better protection than natural immunity? Where are the studies? Where are the studies on the impact of vaccination on the presence of a pandemic? There are many issues that Members ignore, as if it were all right in the country. Continuing with children and family: what has happened in our country for the last two years? Why are we not talking about how families moved to distance education, how many families left the country because of restrictions in educational establishments? What does one year mean for a child in his professional career in sport, and what does two years mean? What are the consequences for our children? Why has the quality of children’s success and education declined in recent years? Will the level of education during the pandemic be... How will we improve it? Should education be digital, entertaining, or should the acquisition of knowledge have a discipline, a close and respectful relationship with the teacher? Colleagues! Up to 18 years... only one child died, but suicide... is a different number. I hope that the experts will raise this issue and start to speak. And where else the question is that our country, in the European Union as a whole, has a third or second place in terms of the number of suicides! I think this is a disaster that we have to talk about. With its decision to switch from fabric masks to respiratory, but allow them to wear at school, the government confirms only that: either we do not care about children's health or... This story is not about health, it is about restrictions. On 29 January, family doctors again addressed the President of Latvia, the Speaker of the Saeima, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health and invited... I'll briefly mention... I made three points... which was the subject of this letter and request and calls. All these calls are justified - they are based on studies, with all links to experts and to the World Health Organisation. It's all right. The first is to cancel the Covid-19 certificates. The second is not to impose medical procedures on citizens. And the third call is to carry masks on a voluntary basis. Why do we need to talk about such natural things, discuss them, and hate each other? It seems to me that these issues need to be resolved - just put a stop to it, and that is all. We already experienced this pandemic. Clearly, everything is changing, there is a need for flexibility. In addition, this call mentioned that by using masks, we inhale plastic particles that are carcinogenic and act as endocrine agents. And all studies on exposure to plastic particles were added to the text. I ask my colleagues to support this draft decision so that small children... at least to Class 7... be free to breathe during the course, to see the emotions and smiles of your classmates. I hope that if we touch on this issue, we will understand that not only to Class 7... A 15 - year - old, seventeen - year - old, too, is a child. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U36	Member Sprūde spoke on behalf of the rapporteurs. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U37	Good afternoon, everyone! It is obvious that this so-called safety measure - making children wear masks - does not achieve its objective. This is demonstrated both by the real facts about the infection of children and by the evidence of the parents of the children. And there are several reasons for that. First of all, the masks must be adequate and properly used in order to actually fulfil their function. To impose such requirements on children of the first class, and to make them work throughout the day of training - this is one sign of this lack of power, irresponsibility and incompetentness. You can't sit there, Saeima, for yourself, more than one reason for the Saeima sitting in that mask and exchange between you, but the children are putting... You want them to carry them all day long, and consciously. Instead of acting and ensuring epidemiologically safe conditions in training facilities, this power, as usual, has done almost nothing but shifts responsibility for what is happening to small children and now to teachers, making it compulsory to vaccinate them. On the first working day of the new Minister of Education and Science, in response to the publicly expressed statements made by the Minister, that every effort will be made to avoid repeating the situation of the previous year of learning... in order to help the Minister to implement this commitment, that is to say, to understand what should really be done, the questions of Members were put (Question No. 227 on measures to ensure a training process on the ground). The opportunity to prepare educational institutions for different safety protocols by the current co-media, using various instruments, not only the vaccination of the mandatory teachers and the carrying of masks, was not used. The Minister for Education and Science has not ensured that... Even so far, it has not been up to the purchase of CO2 measuring devices, let alone the creation and installation of appropriate ventilation solutions in schools. We know - and this has already been proven scientifically! - that the spread of this infection can be effectively controlled by controlling air quality. And that was the right path to go to the Ministry of Education and Science, which had to go to this power if that authority really wanted to ensure this learning process in person. However, instead of providing schools with the necessary ventilation solutions and appropriate work organisation methodology, hundreds of teachers are made redundant, tens of millions of euros are spent on buying foreign tests and implementing the test process, because these unexposed spaces are an epidemiologically insecure environment. Children should wear masks which make sense, under conditions where spaces are not adequately ventilated, obviously questionable. This power is acting like in the Middle Ages, when one of the recommended methods of preventing an epidemic was to keep as many stinking pets as possible in the room as possible, as it would deter the infection. Our power also thinks that if you stay in an unventilated room for a long time, masks can protect your children from infection. The result is that, in many places, learning is no longer happening. The imaginary carrying of masks by power has not helped. I therefore support this requirement: the younger classes do not carry a mask during classes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U38	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U39	Hello, Latvian society! Before I again - again - turn off the sittings of the Saeima and close my mouth, however, I will allow me to say that the rule of law and the Cabinet of Ministers to make the use of masks for young children is a legal crime against people. And I'll explain why. The first and main reason is as follows: As we know very well, if we trust in science, childhood is a time when children need to strengthen immunity. And the strengthening of immunity, as we all know very well, is taking the virus - allowing young children to receive it, with a whole range of diseases, especially diseases that they are suffering from in a light form. And now we are talking about a disease that, as we can see, is going on very light or actually not going at all for children when they look at the last two years. By allowing the disease to become ill, immunity is strengthened throughout life. By acting on the contrary and reducing the child, this little man, the ability to protect himself, his body, is committed by a crime. It is also a crime that forces young children to wear these... Cover their face - it affects a number of people's health, access to oxygen to the brain; it therefore reduces both their judgment, their thinking and the ability of the immune system to protect themselves; it causes a variety of inflammations in children. It's a crime. I'm not going to talk about face masks at all... Their forced wearing is a crime because it is clearly visible, and it is statistically obvious that their impact has in no way improved any statistical indicators. I very much hope... Before I'm turned off for the next six sittings of the Saeima and shut my mouth, I'll let you say that. I very much hope that those who took these decisions will once be called before the court. As we know, crimes against humanity are not prescription. Sooner or later - maybe in a year or two, but sooner or later - they will be called before the court. I hope so. And I will applaud when these people who are dealing with children, the vulnerable part of society, get into new prisons in Liepaja or other prisons. I can promise the public: if I and my team have power, I will do all I can to make these voters vote on child restraint, on the creation of psychological injuries for children, and on the damage to the health of children to the accused. Crimes against humanity must not be allowed, and crimes against humanity must not be forgotten. This is a crime against humanity. Dear Society! Covidafare is coming to an end. These are the remains of the last agony that remains in our Parliament and in some other parliaments. We see very clearly that the countries around us - Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Finland, Lithuania, Estonia - have, as far as I know, ceased to have such requirements. Our government with Karini is always at the forefront (A sound breakdown.) ... that it supports the direction to Scandinavia. But it has never happened. Never. No decision, no action. We're even more... We are actually simulating totalitarian regimes, such as those in Belarus or Russia, where the mouth of the opposition is closed and where a number of decisions are taken that are contrary to human rights. And one more thing. We are talking about education. I will remind you that children are learning languages, simulating and watching how others speak, looking purely visually, what face makeup, mouth movements are. It's scientifically proven, by the way. This power that humiliates people and leads towards universal debilitation... I do not want to say today that it must be driven or let go, it will be by itself. We simply need to survive this time, and I know that the moment is coming. But this power, which does all this, from Karina to all the main figures who have committed these crimes against humanity, must be called up and brought to justice. No mercy. I believe I deeply believe in my heart that we will experience this day. This day is more important than getting corrupt. This day, when the regime comes before the court, will be the day when Latvia will be able to be declared a free, independent and democratic state.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U40	Mr. Gobzem, I interrupted your... debate because, unfortunately, you are in breach of paragraphs 8, 11 and 16 of the Code of Conduct for Members of the Saeima. This is not acceptable. The name of Member Ramona Petraviča. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U41	Dear President, Dear colleagues, The requirement for facial masks to be used by students should be waived immediately. Mandatory requirement to use facial masks for current pandemics... Indeed, only marginal protection is provided in the condition, as well as tolerance to the misuse of masks, and confidence in mitigation mechanisms is reduced. So, above all, the marginal effect of mask protection. It should be noted that the majority of society is currently using medical disposable masks, which are only effective if they are used appropriately, as intended, for two hours, or for a rest of the day. What, though, is the reality? The reality is that these disposable masks, which operate for two hours, are used for days, weeks and even months. And the same dream shall be removed, and put it in a pocket or purse, and then pull it out, and continue to use it. In addition, textile facial masks are used in schools, with a throughput of 80 percent, and have been recognised by experts as being of only decorative value and do not in principle protect them against anything at all. In addition, carrying masks increases the hand contact with the face by transferring possible particles of virus to the face. or, by removing the mask by hand... in the case of these over-exploited and under-pure masks, it poses a risk to the user of the mask itself, of course, it poses various face problems for children as well. Public confidence in Covid-19 fighting mechanisms and mask limited effectiveness... Misuse... When we see surface mask users, we treat them very clearly and, at the same time, support them. All of this, of course, undermines the confidence in the mechanisms that are offered to us. And have you ever asked a child how he feels after eight hours of sitting down in a high school mask? What do children say? These include headache, tiredness, difficulty concentrating, and, of course, loss of learning quality. The use of masks in schools. We can see that this disease is growing among schoolchildren and that it is being carried home by schoolchildren. Thus, once again, it is evidence that masks (the ones used in school) are not protected and that children do not have the opportunity to use these masks properly. We are therefore doing much more harm to children by forcing them to wear these masks than - if enough ventilation is ensured. So that all these problems really pose a risk to the continued protection of public health and... outweighing the benefits of mandatory mask usage... they must be made more substitutable with other - easier to deliver and more effective - objectives. I therefore ask for support for this proposal and for a decision to refuse mandatory carrying of masks to pupils as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U42	The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U43	Hello, chair of the sitting! Hello, colleagues! Hello, listeners, viewers! From the spring of last year, when the idea of masking and masking in schools arose, I repeatedly expressed my opinion about masking, because I knew what was happening in schools, what was children's activity and also about masking habits, then I thought that the use of masks in school as such... how the institution is completely wrong and wrong. Unfortunately, at that time, colleagues did not listen, and this event was introduced in schools. Every week, we in the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption face current amendments to regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers No. 720, Cabinet of Ministers Regulations No. 662, and every time I really admire the invention of officials, which still needs to be resolved. These regulations have now reached... 662 I think there are already 340 points in the regulation, so even lawyers are not clear what officials and ministers have thought at all when they adopt these amendments. Very basic things that are understandable to everyone are made impossible. As a result of these amendments, schools are not fulfilling their direct responsibilities, but have turned into hospitals. Schools should take care of the removal of analyses, schools should take care of red, green, blue and no regimes yet, schools should take care of the proper quantity of masks, schools should make sure that these finally introduced (and it turned out to be late) and unnecessary tests are carried out. These sets must be issued, the sets must be received, something to report, something to wait. In the meantime? Is that the school working with the school... with children and with the program? As one of the biggest problems at the moment, which I also see in the case of carrying masks, is that just... The Minister of Defence has recently expressed in the public space the view that the mandatory term should be renewed. Even now - after countless and endless reforms of education in school programmes - physical activities, health education, any activities that involve healthy child growth are either reversed to the minimum or limited. If we hope that by placing masks on children and limiting their movements, we will achieve a healthy next generation in schools, we are deeply mistaken. The Minister of Defence can calm down his mind and quietly tell someone else who believes. In view of the current situation in Latvian schools with school programs and current challenges, with all these tests, the taxation of schools with unnecessary functions, we achieve that the child, the program remains insignificant throughout this process. I regret that the chair of the sitting did not follow the roll of order and, in the previous question on QR codes and the presentation of vaccination certificates, did not allow it to be directed to another commission, but this time it was not about that. Are there really no children themselves for the coalition Members, who are currently holding tight and voting against all these proposals? They think everything's okay? Is it that it is voting as necessary, right - to keep together, to distribute money and to prepare for elections? All right, keep doing that. In any case, this is not the best way to prove to your constituents that you care about the people. You don't need much to stop this madness. Just take it in your hand... your conscience and vote in such a way that children are good, all children, not only your children, but also other children who are currently suffering from masks and everything else. We do not try to degenerate ourselves or some of our loved ones and benefit them. No, no! I am thinking, for example, of those who now have to buy those masks, who have to wear those masks, who have to use them - both for children and adults. We see these masks in everyday life, especially in schools. There is little from proper use. If we really want to place our children in a bench, make it simple... with concave backs, with undeveloped health, with allowed pests that could be repaired by active action, then we can continue to vote and reject these proposals still. Maybe our society is being prepared for something bigger: maybe we will no longer have children, we will have another society? Perhaps because all these votes, which are, however,... Whereas it is not for the opposition to raise any of its ratings or otherwise that all of these are for the benefit of society. And people on the streets talk about it, they're insane about it. Do you really have to do something crazy or tragic to open your eyes? It's no longer a serious thing you're doing right now, trying to keep up with a great four. You are already trying to destroy each other. Is this necessary now for a country when there is a crisis both in energy and in health? You can try to play for another moment, but the elections are fast approaching, and you also need to start thinking about it. So, colleagues, maybe you'll get your conscience... in your hand and vote in a way that is good for people, not for you, a narrow joint. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U44	Name of Member Evia Papulei. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U45	Madam President, Colleagues and colleagues! I will call on you to vote in favour of this proposal and in favour of this project, in fact, for one reason: by voting in favour of this proposal, you will, in fact, vote against the coalition's hypocritical attitude towards children. Why the hypocritical? Because only schools do not know why (in contrast to other places and other institutions where masks have to be worn) can wear rags. This means that perhaps one of the statements made by the head of the government at the beginning of the pandemic - wear scarves, covered! - They're coming back again. It really is a rather hypocritical attitude towards children, in addition to saying that it is our future and we are taking special care that children can learn here so that they don't have so much distance teaching, but - please wear cloths, wear scarves! It is hypocritical, and it is not forgiving. Although you will probably reject this proposal in your coalition's consensus at the moment, I would, however, like to hope that after 1 March, after the end of the emergency situation, the first decision of the government will be exactly this: abolishing the carrying of masks at school for children and also for teachers, by assessing that teachers have taught them to wear masks, spending time in tests, spending time on many activities which, in the coalition's opinion, provide an epidemiological situation, but that is not the case, but less time for natural negotiations with pupils, natural learning processes, modern learning processes so that students can really learn, rather than thinking about whether the shell mask has been pulled out correctly or whether it has been washed out or otherwise... was worn by all our ads, including on television, in the pocket. I call on us to support this proposal by voting in favour, thus voting against hypocrisy and showing that children are important to us both at school and elsewhere. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U46	Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U47	Very respectful Head of the sitting! Colleagues! In my view, the biggest problem for the government today is the failure to explain its decisions, the failure to explain one or the other objective of the restriction - what it is about to achieve. Here too, the gratification of the decision taken by the government is obvious, and in some ways it is absolutely justified for both parents to ask this question and for every citizen to ask this question, which unfortunately does not have a response at the moment. If the head of the government, the Minister for Health, puts forward a number of experts to the effect that these tissue masks, scarves (so called what we want) are not suitable for the protection of people and that protective measures are needed to achieve some purpose, then why do we put children in classes 1 to 6 on the obligation to carry those masks that, in their own words, do not produce any results. I understand that the initial position was that children will also have to carry these masks - the epidemiological... medical and respiratory - that everyone will have to walk in them, but if there is this derogation, then this is one of the most striking cases when the government says... The position of the government with regard to epidemiological security and the way forward are totally counterproductive and speak against each other. In my opinion, this draft decision would simply put this issue right and would allow us to avoid, if I may say, the mistakes that the government itself has made... According to the government itself. The government itself is the one who has said that these masks are useless. Why, then, does it make children wear these masks? There's that big question. And to that, unfortunately, the government has not given no one a coherent, understandable, clear answer, which is their biggest problem. I therefore also call for this draft decision to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U48	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision submitted by the Member Sprūde, Možvillo, Petravičas, Stepanenko, Krapāne, Švekovas, Mondiņa, Pucena, Girgens and Gobzems “On task for the Cabinet of Ministers to abolish the requirement to wear masks for children”! Please, let's vote! For - 30, for - 44, for - 5. The draft decision was rejected. Agenda... Mr Zarins, would you like to speak again about the motives for the vote? Name to Member Ivars Zarins. I realized you had made your own... You can't hear me.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U49	What I wanted to say is what I have spoken in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U50	Yeah, I got it. Thank you. So on the agenda - the draft decision submitted by Members Sprūde, Možvillo, Petraviča, Švekova, Stepanenko, Pucena, Krapāne, Nemiro, Gobzema and Rībena “On task of abolishing and repaying imposed fines on the Cabinet of Ministers for non-use of facial masks”. Are Members opposed to examining this draft decision at this sitting? Please! And the objections. Do Members have proposals to put this draft decision on the agenda of the next Saeima sitting? One Member can speak 'for', one for 'no'. Consequently, the inclusion of this draft decision on the agenda of the next sitting. Mr. Gobzem, are you going to talk about it?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U51	I will talk about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U52	Please, the name of Member Aldim Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U53	So I call on this Parliament to put on the agenda of the next Saeima sitting the issue of lifting fines for all citizens of the Republic of Latvia for not wearing facial masks or improper wearing - for a number of reasons. The first and most important reason is that it is absolutely clear that, as power changes... dear people, I can promise you that - if you vote for me, absolutely everyone will be reimbursed for all the penalties imposed within the limits, all the people will be punished. Not only about wearing face masks, but also about gathering. All the opposition, all the people, until the last secret, will be reimbursed with all the penalties. Therefore, people, just vote! Imagine what you want to vote for: those who punish you, or those who reward you. Secondly. Given that this fact is irreversible and that people will sooner or later be reimbursed for all the penalties imposed on them, I call for this to be done in good time, softening their responsibility towards the people. Thirdly. As I said before - in my previous speech, when I was not allowed to speak again - it is clear, clearly statistically visible and proven that facial masks have not contributed either medically or otherwise. And in essence, our President of Latvia and our Minister of Justice wear face mask... Don't wear, to be true, do not wear face masks at public events. It is documented in video format, documented in photo format. They're not being punished for this. Our Minister for the Interior... from mode... Golubeva says: “One law is one justice for all.” Well, if Levite is not punished and Bordan is not punished with EUR 1000 - in fact, they should be punished with even more penalties - as the main public officials, then there is no reason to punish the whole of the society. That is why all these penalties should be abolished and repaid. There can be no situation that ordinary people in the central market or ordinary people in the supermarket or anywhere else are punished with warning, but Levit, as the President of Latvia, who must be a model for everyone, is not punished. More recently, the hockeyist Lauris Dariņš presented the flag of Latvia to the public event indoors (this fact is fixed) - without a mask. Levit has no punishment... no punishment, he has violated the law. Bordan, where he was wasted at Gunar Astra's... is fixed... photofixing... sit next to Levit without a mask. There's no punishment. Why do they both have no punishment, but the ordinary people have penalties? What are they both better with? What are they superiors to? Just because they've had positions in recent months? If there is one law - one justice for all, then one law - one justice for all! They must then be punished or imposed on everyone after a full programme. Given that the masks are not working, it is quite clear that they are completely pointless, it is only such a means of putting people under control, and these penalties should be abolished. Dear people! If these penalties are not lifted in this Saeima, but you will vote for my team, each and every one of them will be lifted in full, and all - until the last Sunday - that you have paid will be returned to you. How I sit here today! I promise you that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U54	Mr. Valaiņš, will you speak against the examination?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U55	Colleagues! I have applied under the heading on issues relating to the course of the sitting and I would like to speak about the procedure. It is not clear to me and my colleagues at the moment how the Saeima sitting is conducted, what issues we are discussing and how the debate agenda is organised at the moment. At the procedure... speaks “for”, “for”... This system shows ‘non-sitting issues’. What is the real debate on? I am calling for something - there will be a break now - to deal with this perhaps so that it is clear to everyone how the debate procedure is organised. Now...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U56	Thank you, Mr. Valaiņš. I explained. We are currently debating. One Member may speak in favour, one against the examination of this draft decision on the agenda of the next sitting. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision submitted by the Member Sprūde, Možvillo, Petravičas, Stepanenko, Krapāne, Švekova, Mondiņa, Pucena, Girgens and Gobzems “On task of lifting the demand... “ Forgive me... “On task for the Cabinet of Ministers to cancel and repay applied fines for non-use of facial masks” on the agenda of the next sitting! Please, let's vote! -13, against -54, refrains - not. The draft decision is therefore not on the agenda for the next sitting. Do Members have proposals to refer the draft decision to the Commission? Please! Karina Sprude. The name to Member Karin Scratch. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U57	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. I applied in advance to talk about it, and I was not given this opportunity. I'm electronically now... By e-mail, I have applied to this platform, and for the procedure I have applied... I wasn't given a name. And now I'm given a name because of another question. I don't know how your system works, why don't you ignore all my applications -- that's clear... and then there is a vote without giving me the floor. Solve it! Go back...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U58	The name was given. Mr Gobzem spoke about, no one applied for. We voted. Everything happens after the procedure. Please do Members have proposals to hand over this draft decision to one of the commissions? Mr Valaiņš, will your proposal be to hand over the draft decision to one of the commissions?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U59	But, of course!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U60	Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U61	I call for this draft decision to be passed on to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, but I also call on the Saeima technicians... What Mrs Sprude said and what I said before - that is. Currently, the Saeima system does not work as it should: there is no possibility to apply correctly for decisions... whether there is a possibility of a correct objection. We're... I don't think we're the only ones... I think that just about 50 Members tried at least to push the button at one moment - to oppose further progress in the draft decision, but they did not have the opportunity to apply here. The system does not currently work, does not function in such a way that the Saeima can operate normally on this e-Saamia platform. I draw attention to this. There are problems right now. I do not know how from your point of view there are problems from our point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U62	Yes, there were problems. The problems have been solved, but we are going to break now. We must now vote in favour of this draft decision... We must therefore continue the debate on the referral of this draft decision to a commission. Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U63	Dear President, Dear colleagues, At the moment, on the e-Parliament platform, I submitted to the debate on the question entitled ‘What is going on in the sitting’. Neither the draft law nor the proposals we are debating appear. In the past, I could not apply for a debate, all these functions were bright, they were not active. I therefore call for a break and for this e-Parliament sitting to be arranged or for the Saeima Presidency to decide to resume normal work on the spot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U64	Has Member Ralph Nemiro asked for the floor to propose that the draft decision be handed over to one of the commissions?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U65	Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting! Yes, I am calling for this draft decision to be submitted to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption, but what colleagues have said I would also like to join. I didn't even have the opportunity to apply for one of the questions... refer the same question to the committee, i.e. refer the question to the committee. Indeed, there was no "Apply for a debate" button, and the whole screen was without an active opportunity to do so. These are therefore technical problems. I call on them to be prevented, or we have been so for a long time... Such problems affect us in terms of procedural possibilities... we cannot fulfil our parliamentary responsibilities. That is why I, too, call for the transition to work on the spot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U66	Thank you, Mr Nemir. I also accept your remark of system error. We will certainly try to prevent this from happening. At this point, we still need to continue the procedure. First of all, we will vote in favour of transferring this draft decision to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. Please call me! We will vote for the transfer of the draft decision “On Task for the Cabinet of Ministers to cancel and repay the imposed fines for non-use of facial masks” to the Committee on Budget and Finance (tax)! Please, let's vote! For - 12, for - 49, for - 2. So we do not hand over the draft decision to this commission. The second proposal was to refer the draft decision to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption. Please call me! We will vote for the transfer to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption of the draft decision “On Task of the Cabinet of Ministers to Revert and Repay Fines for Non-Use of Face Masks”! Please, let's vote! For - 12, for - 47, for - 1. The draft decision is rejected. Dear colleagues, It's time for a break. The registration of Members' presence is over. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U67	Dear colleagues, Let us continue to work on draft laws. Draft Act on the Agreement on Air Transport between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the State of Qatar, of the other part, second reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U68	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, At its second reading, the Foreign Affairs Commission examined the draft law on the Air Transport Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the State of Qatar, of the other part. No proposals were received at second reading. Therefore, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U69	Thank you. Please call me! Let us vote on the draft law on the Agreement on Air Transport between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the State of Qatar, of the other part, at second, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, 69, against and refrains. The law is passed. Draft law on the Common Aviation Area Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Ukraine, of the other part, second reading. On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Member Krista Baumane.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U70	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We work with the draft law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers No. 1240/Lp13. The draft law was prepared for adoption and approval of an agreement signed on behalf of the Republic of Latvia last autumn by the Permanent Representative of our country to the European Union. The agreement will be based on mutual access to the air transport markets of the Parties on a level playing field and uniform rules, including in the areas of safety, safety, air traffic management, social aspects and the environment. In the Commission on Foreign Affairs, no proposals were received and the draft law was approved. I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U71	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on the Agreement on the Common Aviation Area between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Ukraine, of the other part, in the second final reading! Please, let's vote! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The law is passed. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Land Management Act’, third reading. Member Viesturs Liepkalns on behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U72	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy at its third reading examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Land Management” (No. 1219/Lp13). No proposals were received from the Commission for the third reading. Consequently, the commission has unanimously supported the draft law at third reading and also asks the Saeima to support the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U73	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Land Management” in the third, final, reading! Please, let's vote! No, 73, against and refrains. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on Administrative Penalty on Violations in the Field of Administration, Public Order and Use of State Language”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Jānis Iesalnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U74	Hello, colleagues! The draft law “Amendment to the Law on Administrative Penalty Offences in the Fields of Administration, Public Order and Use of the State Language” provides for the addition of a new article providing for new administrative liability, namely on the public display of weapons and military equipment in the totalitarian regime if it exceeds 30 days, except in museums. The aim of the draft law is to make the rest of the... In fact, all are symbols of Soviet power - weapons and military technology. For example, in some places Soviet planes, guns, tanks still exist... Let's say, in the vicinity of the former USSR army bases or on road crossings. So that such a military technique, which has remained a praise for the totalitarian regime, can no longer be found... and that the placement of such machinery constitutes a criminal act. The Legal Commission at first reading heard various state institutions – the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of the Interior and the State Police – in conceptual consideration of this draft law. The opinion of the Association of Politically Repressed People of Latvia was also heard, which called for this issue to be finally resolved so that 30 years after the restoration of independence in Latvia, the symbols of the military power of the totalitarian regime would not yet prevail and called for support for this draft law. This was accepted and supported by a majority of the Commission at first readings, while setting a sufficiently long deadline for the submission of proposals in order to resolve the issues of the body monitoring compliance with this Article, as well as the possible transitional period to be decided at second readings. I therefore call on the Legal Commission to support the draft law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U75	Thank you. Let's start a debate. The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U76	Dear colleagues, The draft law ‘Amendment to the Law on Administrative Penaltys in the Fields of Administration, Public Order and the Use of State Language’ drawn up by the members of the National Union provides for the addition of Article 13.1 of the law to the following wording: ‘On public placement of the former USSR and Nazi German arms, war technology and elements thereof, if it exceeds 30 days, except in museums, a warning or a fine shall be imposed on a natural person up to seventy fine units and on a legal person up to fifty-eighty fine units.’ Clearly, there are a number of issues that need answers. I would therefore like to express my views on this draft law and make comments. It should be recalled that the application of a new provision in the law on the enforcement of penalties must not lead to a situation where a person is punished for an act committed before the entry into force of the law - at the moment when the act was not punishable. I therefore believe that the threat of administrative responsibility in this case is not and cannot be the most appropriate means. Another major weakness is that the draft regulation does not propose for discussion the question of a competent authority that could impose an administrative penalty. In order to determine which authority should be the issuing body of an administrative act, it is necessary first to identify certain objects and their legal status. It is not possible to abstractly tell which institution is the most appropriate one, perhaps several. It is necessary to identify the whole range of legal relationships, i.e. the persons to whom that provision would apply. Then there could be serious questions about the right to property and the right to freedom of expression. Of course, none of these rights is absolute. The State is entitled to limit that right, provided that the three usual criteria are met. Firstly, whether the rule is clear in its application and foreseeable. Secondly, whether the legitimate aim is in the sense of fundamental rights. This is where Article 116 of the Satversme has to be seen. Thirdly, whether the instrument chosen actually achieves the objective pursued. I believe that the public’s view of memorial sites should, however, be considered ethically. I call for an assessment to be made of the important fact that such weapons and related elements may also be located in burial sites. Another important aspect, which I believe the authors of the draft law do not take into account, is the aspect of international treaties of the Republic of Latvia. International treaties of Latvia provide for protection of memorial buildings and mass burials of soldiers, thus identifying the range of objects in respect of which it is intended to apply this norm. Exceptions must be made to those objects protected by international treaties of the Republic of Latvia. The proposed wording can cause more problems than solve the situation. I call for compliance with the provisions of the international treaties. When deciding on the introduction of criminal rules, it should be borne in mind that administrative penalties are imposed for non-compliance with certain rules, for non-compliance with prohibitions or for non-compliance with obligations. I believe that it is essential to understand whether there is any legislative act which states the obligation of persons or prohibits persons from exhibiting or removing the objects referred to in the draft law. If such an obligation is not clear anywhere, then the norm will not be clear enough and it will create more problems than our societies would need. I join the opinion of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the General Prosecutor's Office, the State Police, the Latvian Municipal Union, as well as the Legal Bureau of the Saeima and do not support further progress of the draft law. This provision has not been fully developed, and neither does the annexation of the draft law provide answers to the questions previously raised. The law-makers are opposed, so I call for the draft law to be rejected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U77	Name to Member Edvin Schnorem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U78	Dear colleagues, I, for my part, call for the draft law to be supported. I believe that these objections are more technical and can be addressed at second reading... and so on, but I would like to remind colleagues of the main aim of this draft law, and that is: to avoid the possibility of honoring Latvia... the honour of the occupation regime - the USSR and the Nazi German armed forces - by public exhibition of the military equipment and weapons of these regimes. I stress that this is not about war games and reconstructions... and things like this, because this 30-day period is mentioned. So not more than 30 days, so it is understandable for everyone that it is about the so-called monuments that were installed in all the republics of the USSR during the Soviet period, thus marking their territory in fact, therefore, in the territory of Russia as well as in the occupied countries of the Baltic States. After occupation, practically the majority, most of these so - called monuments, tanks, and cannons, disappeared from the ruins. Unfortunately, not everyone. The only countries in which we can still observe this tradition are countries such as Belarus and Russia, where the USSR army is honored in this way, but I would remind you that in Latvia, the USSR army is an occupying army, so its honor cannot be allowed. And the last one. I would also like to point out that one of the motives of this draft law was the case of the extermination of Jēkabpils cannon, where, due to this disorderly legislation and laws, the person who has taken the Soviet military technique, which has been publicly exhibited, is now at risk of criminal liability. In our opinion, this is totally unacceptable in Latvia for 30 years after the occupation of the USSR... Therefore, in order not to repeat such situations in the future, we have tabled this bill and we also call on our colleagues to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U79	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U80	Dear President, Honourable Members! Tell me what monuments are being protected in the country, and I will tell you what is actually the country or what is affecting that country. Monuments to the past are not raised so much as simply to honour some historical events, monuments are always raised to honor, to maintain our understanding - from today's point of view - of what is honorable in ancient times and which is not honorable... according to today's understanding. Any monuments of the Russian Empire exist in Latvia only to remind that this territory can ever return to the Russian Empire. Everything else is a lie. What honor or respect can be said about the so-called liberator monument in Pārdaugava, which until 1997 was rejected by all Saeima, all delegations and all Riga City Councils? Only after the bombing of this monument was a secret letter by a Russian foreign minister who had an impact on Russia suddenly confirmed that this monument was a memorial. Remember, even in 1996, the Russian Embassy desperately wanted to put on a plate with something... the fallen Soviet army officers who have died freeing Riga. At that time, thank God, Riga City Council was enough national to reject all these folly. While this monument is standing, we must admit that Latvia is still partially occupied by the state or, to be true, has not been freed from the consequences of occupation. Today there are more than 300 monuments of all kinds of Bolsheviks, Stalin's time and Soviet occupation. I won't waste time, I think you all know what these monuments are. As I said, from the monument of Pārdaugava to Marta, a member of the Saddit National Guard... This is not a national Guard, but a workers' Guard activists who personally tortured the national partisans caught in 1941, Marta Riekstas Street. From Shustin's deputy Czechist fight... Commemorative plaques in the Cemetery of the Brothers to a fictitious monument of the Red Army on the shore of Ķīšezers. From Bolderāja to this very monument of Jēkabpils... and so on. We have a whole line of streets that are named by the collaborators. I do not turn to Knut Hamsun, like the Norwegians, for example, against Andrejs River. I think he was really an outstanding writer, but his place is in the museum, not that his name is named schools or, don't give a god, some streets, because let's remember, Andrew Upit was a collaborator. He banned the release of outstanding works of Latvian writers, as well as wrote his plight “Nestless Way” about our outstanding exile writers. I therefore think and call on Members: we need to complement this law with all these Bolshevism and Stalinist fertilizers (not only with some cannons, weapons, but with all) with which Latvia is contaminated. I am ashamed and regrettably also to admit my fault that I have failed to convince the Saeima to clean Latvia from these manures once in 30 years, as I said. I invite you to support and prepare proposals for the next reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U81	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U82	I would like to say that we must say thank you to the man who cast into the city of Jēkabpils the symbol of the Soviet Union - cannon. If this man weren't likely there would be no idea about this bill, otherwise... if this wish had indeed been the case over the last 30 years, this draft law would have been earlier. So thank you to this man and support the bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U83	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U84	I would like to respond to some of the concerns of my fellow Member Valeria Agešina, which have already been expressed at the commission meeting. Firstly, with regard to the controlling body - the committee at second reading will determine this - and a transitional period will also be given in which persons whose land is symbolised by totalitarian regimes - war technology - could remove them. The majority of these are municipalities. Consequently, no one who fulfils this obligation in good time will be punished for the previous... activities carried out during the period of occupation in the presence of military equipment of the totalitarian regime. Just like... when it comes to soldiers' graves and memorials, this article does not absolutely speak of soldiers' graves. No one is going to touch them, but if there is a tank or gun next to the graves of soldiers, it is unlikely that this object should be located next to the graves. Since this article only concerns military technology, no one is going to touch the graves of soldiers. Consequently, on behalf of the Commission, I call for support to be given to the draft law at first reading, and at second reading with proposals, with the work of the Commission, we will respond to the concerns expressed at the Legal Commission at first reading. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U85	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Administrative Penalty on Violations in the Fields of Administration, Public Order and Use of State Language”! Please, let's vote! For - 52, for - 24, for - 3. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U86	The deadline for the second reading of the proposals is 4 April this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U87	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 4 April this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Medicine”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Andris Skride.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U88	Hello, honourable Mrs. Mourniece! Colleagues! This bill... the purpose of these amendments is to delegate to the Cabinet of Ministers... delegate the provisions of the Cabinet of Ministers to determine the use of external automatic defibrillators. It is a portable device that can measure heart rate and, if necessary, act on the heart with an electric discharge to restore normal heart rhythm and circulation in the event of life-threatening arrhythmias. External automatic defibrillators need to be used to save life at heart arrest signs in the critical first minutes until professional assistance arrives. The law will determine that this apparatus may be used by a trained person before the arrival of emergency medical assistance, and the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers will determine where they should be installed and how their technical supervision as well as training should be carried out. The Ministry of Finance has also received an opinion on this draft law. The draft law is unanimously supported by the Commission. On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support this at first reading at the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U89	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Medicine” at first reading! Please, let's vote! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U90	The deadline for proposals for second reading is one month.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U91	And so... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U92	March 3rd.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U93	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 3 March this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Information Systems”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Gatis Zamurs.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U94	Good afternoon, colleagues! In the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy we have received the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Information Systems”. The draft law extends the scope of the Law on State Information Systems, first, to ensure efficient management of the information and communication technology resources available to the state, second, to improve the availability and quality of information provided by state and municipal institutions in the state information systems. The draft law further improves the legal framework for public administration sharing resources, establishing the procedure and criteria for opening these resources to the private sector. In the Commission, we have supported the draft law. I also ask colleagues to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U95	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Information Systems”! Please, let's vote! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U96	The deadline for submitting proposals is 10 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U97	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 10 February this year. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Commercial Law’, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U98	Hello, honourable Mrs. Mourniece! Dear colleagues! That is exactly what we are taking to see the draft law “Amendments to the Commercial Law” discussed by the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission and prepared for the first reading. I must remind you that one of the measures in the Government's Action Plan is to ensure a business-friendly, stable and legal environment, paying particular attention to the modernisation of the legal framework for public limited liability companies. As a result, the Saeima was transferred from the government to review this draft law, which aims to improve the procedure for registration and accounting of shares, as well as to improve the availability of information about the shareholders of the public limited liability company concerned. It will also modernise the procedure for convocation of shareholders' meetings and holding of meetings, as well as the availability of documents of members' and shareholders' meetings. The draft law also reviews the procedure for paying for shares and shares. Finally, in view of such relatively recent developments, the draft law complements the requirements set out in the Law on Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism and Proliferation. We in the Commission intend to examine this draft law in three readings and to do so in the first half of this year, as a result of which there will be enough time for the draft law to enter into force after one year, 1 July 2023. The draft law in the Commission was not only praised much by non-governmental organisations, but is also supported by Members. Please support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U99	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Commercial Law! Please, let's vote! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U100	The deadline for submitting proposals will be quite polite - 3 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U101	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 3 March this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U102	At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 11 January, the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia”” (No. 1273/Lp13) before first reading. The draft law is related to the newly reviewed draft law on “Amendments to the Commercial Law”, which requires public limited liability companies which issued nominal shares to submit a shareholder register in the Register of Enterprises, but public limited liability companies which issued bearer shares in the Register of Enterprises to submit information about the major shareholders of the company. The draft law determines how information about shareholders must be taken into account and used to perform the functions of the Register of Enterprises. The Legal Commission has supported the first reading of the draft law. I also call on my colleagues to support them.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U103	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia” at first reading! Please, let's vote! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U104	The deadline for submitting draft legislative proposals is two months, or 3 April of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U105	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 3 April this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Patients’ Rights”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Ilmārs Dūritis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U106	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear Members, Members! The Social and Labour Commission is working on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Patients’ Rights”. One proposal was received to the second reading by the Commission - from Ilmar Durish, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Health. The proposal provides for the addition of a new article in the following wording: "Replace in the eighth paragraph of Article 5 the words "the legal representative, but if not," the words "the authorised representative, but if not, the legal representative". I mean... I'll explain. Amendments to the law or this proposal provide that the medical institution will be obliged to inform the authorised representative of the patient in cases where the patient is a minor or a person who, due to his state of health, is unable to take care of himself. In such cases, the medical institution will have to immediately inform the patient's authorised representative, if any, if the patient has so authorised. In the Commission, this proposal was supported, so I also call on the Saeima to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U107	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U108	Thank you. All the proposals have been examined. I therefore call for support for this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U109	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Patients’ Rights” at second reading! Please, let's vote! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U110	The Commission is therefore asking for a deadline to be set for the third reading - on 17 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U111	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 17 February this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Disposal of Real Estate Needed for the Company”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U112	At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 26 January, the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Expropriation of Real Estate Needed for the Company” (No. 1135/Lp13). The aim of the draft law is to create a regulation for the acquisition of real estate necessary to meet the needs of the company in certain cases, in respect of which until now there has not been regulation. Thus, the draft law includes a solution for cases where land or construction is required to meet the needs of the company, which is not yet entered in the land register, as well as when the owner of the immovable property to be disposed of has died. The Legal Commission has received and examined eight proposals for second reading. 1. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Editable. Exchanges the words ‘bank account’ to ‘payment account’ in the law. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U113	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U114	2. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Article 1 is supplemented by an indication that the law applies to the disposal of immovable property belonging to a private person. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U115	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U116	3. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport, Telelys Linkait. Provision is made for the addition of Article 13.1 of the law, which provides for the right, without the consent of the owner, to survey the land for disposal purposes. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U117	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U118	4. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Clarifying the wording of Rule 17.1 at first reading, making the rule clearer. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U119	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U120	5. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport, Telelys Linkait. It is planned to supplement Article 17.1 with the fourth paragraph of the Law by providing that the institution shall have the right to initiate to an sworn notary the case of inheritance, if it has not been initiated, with a view to facilitating disposal of property in cases where the property has no owner. Taking into account that the Commission agreed that inheritance cases should be excluded by the Notary Law, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U121	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U122	6. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport, Telelys Linkait. Provision shall be made for the institution to retain the financial resources of the specified remuneration if the institution has covered the expenses borne by it instead of the owner of the immovable property in order to implement or complete the disposal process, with a view to dealing with situations where the owner of the immovable property has limited resources when he cannot fulfil any of his duties, such as paying the tax on immovable property. Given that the proposal requires a broader discussion between the institutions and the need to clarify the wording, it is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U123	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U124	7. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Provision shall be made for allowing a person to authorise an institution to act on behalf of a person in situations where the person does not act actively, allowing the institution to take all necessary steps to strengthen the ownership of the person in the land register on behalf of a private person. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U125	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U126	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Editable. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U127	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U128	The Legal Commission has supported the draft law for second reading. I call on my colleagues to support the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U129	Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Expropriation of Real Estate Needed for Society’s Needs”! Please, let's vote! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U130	The deadline for submitting draft legislative proposals is three weeks, or until 24 February of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U131	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 24 February this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social Affairs and Labour, Member Evita Zālīte-Grosa.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U132	Hello, fellow Members, again! The Commission on Social and Labour Affairs examined and supported the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance” prior to the second reading. A total of ten proposals have been received. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Replace the word ‘disabled’ by ‘persons with disabilities’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U133	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U134	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Article 2 of the draft law shall not be repealed. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U135	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U136	3. - Proposal by Evita Zalīte-Gross, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare. Provision shall be made for state immovable property held by the Ministry of Welfare necessary for the provision of the services of state-funded long-term social care and social rehabilitation institutions referred to in this Article to be managed by a state company with limited liability “Champeter House”. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U137	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U138	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is intended to replace the words ‘children with disabilities’ by ‘children with disabilities’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U139	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U140	5. - Proposal by Evita Zalīte-Gross, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare. It should be divided into two parts. The first part is therefore editorial, and the second is intended to replace... for forgiveness, provide for the provision of social rehabilitation services for children who have developed dependence on narcotic, toxic or other intoxicating substances or on addiction processes, as well as for the provision of such services in their place of residence - provided by a limited liability company "Children's Resources Centre". The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U141	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U142	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Article 6 of the draft law shall not be repealed. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U143	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U144	7. - Proposal by Evita Zalīte-Gross, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare. It is envisaged that the Cabinet of Ministers will in future establish a list of functional disturbances. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U145	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U146	8 / 8 - the proposal of the Minister for Health, Daniel Pavlut. Provision shall be made for the institution of long-term social care and social rehabilitation in which adult clients have 49 or more seats, to form a unit for the provision of health care services (health point) and to register it in the register of medical institutions. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U147	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U148	9. - also the proposal of the Minister for Health, Daniel Pavlut. These amendments are expected to be... first subparagraph... This health point... The entry into force of the amendments is 1 January 2024. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U149	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U150	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Provision shall be made to exclude the entry into force of the law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U151	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U152	Thank you. I call for support for this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U153	Please, call! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance". Please, let's vote! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U154	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 25 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U155	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 25 February this year. Draft law “On the first reading of the Protocol amending the Agreement of 30 January 2012 between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the Terms of Transfer of Real Estate in Jurmala and Moscow”. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U156	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, In its meeting, the Foreign Commission looked at the draft law “On the Protocol amending the Agreement of 30 January 2012 between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the Conditions of Transfer of Real Estate in Jurmala and Moscow”, which was designed to approve the Protocol signed in Moscow on 28 September 2021 amending the Agreement of 30 January 2012 between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the Conditions of Transfer of Real Estate in Jurmala and Moscow. The very nature of the bill. Thus, according to Article 1 of the Agreement, the Russian party transfers to the Latvian side the building located at Bolshoj Afanasjevski pereulok 9, Moscow, and rents the land on which the building is located. According to the agreement, the Russian party carried out the restoration of the building (capital repairs) with its own funds. In order to ensure access to the building, another piece of land was added to the land on which the building is located. The draft protocol also provides for changes to Articles 2 and 6 of the Agreement, replacing "Bor" by the state-owned company of the Federal Budget of the Office of the President of the Russian Federation "The Recovery and Production Complex "Child Medicine Centre". At the same time, the visa facilitations provided for in Article 6 of the Agreement are provided for by the staff of the ‘Bor’ successor to the ‘Child Medicine Centre’. In addition to the draft Protocol, the procedure for the disposal of buildings and buildings in Jurmala and Moscow, which was not previously agreed in the text of the agreement, will be defined. The Commission discussed and supported the draft law at first reading. I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U157	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft law “On the Protocol Amending the Agreement of 30 January 2012 between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the Terms of Transfer of Real Estate in Jurmala and Moscow” at first reading! Please, let's vote! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U158	Proposals for the second reading are due by 13 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U159	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 13 February this year. Draft law “On the abolition of the legalisation requirement of documents by diplomatic agents or consular officers”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U160	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, In its meeting, the Foreign Affairs Commission looked at the draft law on the abolition of the requirement for legalisation of documents by diplomatic agents or consular officers at first reading. So the nature of the bill. It states that the proof of authenticity and legalisation of public documents in the Republic of Latvia is carried out in accordance with the Vienna Convention on consular relations of 24 April 1963 and the Hague Convention of 5 October 1961 on the abolition of the requirement of legalization of foreign public documents, as well as a number of international and bilateral agreements and Latvian legal acts. The legalization procedure for both foreign representations in Latvia and documents issued by consular officers of Latvian missions abroad is currently complicated and creates a significant additional administrative burden for document holders. In the current situation it is very difficult to legalise documents issued by officials of foreign diplomatic and consular missions if the foreign representation is not located in Latvia. In such cases, for documents to be legalized, it is necessary to require the signature of the official concerned from the relevant foreign competent authority. This is in line with international practice, as regular collection of signature samples by all officials from all countries around the world is practically impossible, but the holder of the document is very time-consuming and sometimes ends without the result if the requested signature model can not be obtained. Accordingly, the draft European Convention on the abolition of legalisation of documents by diplomatic agents or consular officers was drawn up for the adoption and approval of the European Convention of 7 June 1968 on the abolition of legalisation of documents by diplomatic agents or consular officers. The international cooperation platform established by the Convention provides a uniform legal framework and facilitates the circulation of public documents between its Member States by removing these administrative obstacles. Documents issued by diplomatic and consular officials of the Republic of Latvia and other States Parties to the Convention will be exempt from legalisation requirement. The Convention has been ratified by a total of 25 States. With the accession to the Convention, documents issued by the officials of the representatives of the Republic of Latvia and the other 25 States Parties to the Convention shall be exempt from the legalisation requirement. The exemption from the legalisation requirement shall apply where documents issued by an official of a mission abroad will have to be presented in the territory of another State Party or in the territory of another State which performs his duties in the territory of a State which is not a State Party to this Convention. The Commission has discussed the draft legislation at its meeting and supported it at first reading. On behalf of the Foreign Affairs Commission, I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U161	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft law on the first reading of the European Convention on the Legalisation of Documents by Diplomatic Agents or Consular Officers! Please, let's vote! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U162	Proposals for the second reading are due by 13 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U163	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 13 February this year. Draft law on the Agreement on the Automatic Recognition of Higher Education Qualifications, first reading. Member Atis Lejiņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U164	Thank you, Madam President of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U165	Mr. Lenny, please press the "Log in" button... by electronic means, including within the system.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U166	I already press "Applicate".
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U167	No time report.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U168	Okay. Is that okay? Okay?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U169	It's okay. All right, keep going.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U170	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members, Honourable Members! We consider the draft law on the automatic recognition of higher education qualifications (No. 1290/Lp13). It was adopted by the Foreign Affairs Commission a week ago. I will explain a little bit about this important treaty. As we know, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania are already... such an agreement already exists between the three Baltic States. Such an agreement already exists between the Benelux countries. It is therefore time that the Benelux countries and the Baltic States mutually recognised such automatic recognition of qualifications between higher education institutions, both there and here in the Baltic States. This means: if a Latvian is studying in Tērbata or Tallinn and obtains a higher academic degree there, then when returning to Latvia, it is valid and meets Latvian criteria, academic criteria. The same is true with an Estonian who would study in Latvia, or a Lithuanian and so on. It has already been harmonised and adopted by law. And the same will now apply to the Netherlands, to Belgium, to Luxembourg. You will also be able to return to Latvia... Any one of them will be able to return to their homeland... who have studied in our countries or in those countries. I therefore call for this draft law to be supported. That's good. But also a request from the Foreign Affairs Commission that we consider the bill urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U171	Thank you. The Commission is therefore asking for the draft law to be declared urgent. Members have not applied to speak about urgency. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on the automatic recognition of higher education qualifications! Please, let's vote! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission, we were invited to support the draft law at first reading. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on the automatic recognition of higher education qualifications! Please, let's vote! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U172	8 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U173	The deadline for proposals would be 8 February this year, and consideration at the Saeima sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U174	10 February.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U175	10 February. Thank you. So the deadline for the proposals is 8 February this year. Consideration at the Saeima sitting - 10 February this year. Draft law on the first reading of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Denmark, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the National Defence Department of Canada and the Canadian Armed Forces, the Ministry of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Spain, the Minister of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Supreme Command of the United Kingdom in Europe on the activities of the “North” of the Multinational Division Headquarters On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U176	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The Foreign Affairs Commission has examined and supported draft law No. 1236/Lp13 On the substance of the bill. Russia's aggression in Ukraine and annexation of Crimea in 2014 have significantly deteriorated security in the Euro-Atlantic area. Russia continues to strengthen its military potential and uses provocative methods to achieve its geopolitical interests, without taking into account international law. It has an impact on the national security of Latvia. In order to respond adequately to Russia's aggressive foreign policy, NATO has taken various security-enhancing measures since 2014 to promote deterrence and security in its Member States, for example, by establishing combatable multinational battalion-level units in the Baltic States and Poland. NATO is working to strengthen defence through plan, procedures and capabilities to enhance the alliance's ability to operate in a timely and effective manner in a potential crisis or conflict. In this context, development and strengthening of NATO command capabilities is one of the key elements for effective protection. In 2018, Latvia, Estonia and Denmark started negotiations on the establishment of a Division Headquarters in order to promote NATO efforts and strengthen the security of the Baltic States. The NATO Heads of State and Government meeting in Brussels on 11 July 2018 strengthened the decision to further strengthen command in the Baltic region by establishing an additional multinational Division Headquarters. As a result, the Defence Ministers of Latvia, Estonia, Denmark, Lithuania, Great Britain and Canada signed a Letter of Intent at the Brussels Summit on the commitment to establish a Multinational Division Headquarters “North”, which was joined by Germany on 25 October 2019. In order to implement this commitment, the Ministry of Defence of Latvia, Estonia and Denmark signed a Memorandum of Understanding on the establishment of the multinational Division Headquarters “Nordic”, which consolidates the commitment to transform the multinational Division Headquarters “Nordic” into an international military headquarters and integration into NATO force structure. The draft law was designed to approve a memorandum of understanding at the Saeima. Approval is necessary, because the operation of the MOU North and the fulfilment of the terms of the Memorandum of Understanding will affect the competence of other institutions (it determines the functioning of the international military structure in the territory of Latvia, and its implementation is inextricably linked to the fulfilment of the provisions of the Paris Protocol and the Additional Protocol, such as ensuring tax relief), and the interests of entrepreneurs and individuals. According to the draft law, compliance with the obligations laid down in the Memorandum of Understanding will be coordinated by the Ministry of Defence. The Commission has discussed this draft law and supported it at its first reading on 26 January. The Foreign Affairs Commission proposes that the draft law be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U177	Members have not applied to speak about urgency. Please call me! We will vote on the declaration of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Denmark, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of National Defence of Canada and the Canadian Armed Forces, the Minister of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain, the Ministry of Defence of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Supreme Command of Europe on the operation, composition, financing, administration and support of the Multinational Division Headquarters “North” as urgent! Please, let's vote! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U178	I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U179	Thank you. Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote on draft law on the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Denmark, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of National Defence of Canada and the Canadian Armed Forces, the Minister of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain, the Ministry of Defence of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Supreme Command of the Republic of Europe on the activities, composition, financing, administration and support of the Multinational Division Headquarters “North” at first reading! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U180	Proposals for the second reading should be submitted by 15.00 on 4 February this year, and consideration by the Saeima at its sitting on 10 February.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U181	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 3 p.m. on 4 February this year. Meeting of the Saeima - 10 February this year. Draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on International Assistance’, second reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U182	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, In its meeting, the Foreign Affairs Commission examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on International Assistance” for the second reading. No proposals were received for the second reading. Therefore, on behalf of the Foreign Affairs Commission, I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U183	Thank you. Please... So... So, one moment... Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on International Assistance". Please, let's vote! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U184	Proposals for a second reading shall be submitted by 13 February of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U185	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 13 February this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Administration of Houses”, second reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission, Member Uldis Budriķis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U186	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, The Commission of State Administration and Local Government is moving forward at second reading the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Administration of Housing Houses” (No. 1116/Lp13), drawn up by the Group of Members. The Commission received eight proposals developed by the working group. All proposals have been set up in the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government and are being led as proposals of the Commission. 1. - Commission proposal. It is intended to replace the word ‘marriage’ by the word ‘managing’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U187	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U188	2. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. A new approach is envisaged on how the home case is handled in connection with the basic idea of the draft law - to use the construction information system to take care of the house case and in future to have the possibility to hold the general meetings of owners of apartments electronically. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U189	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U190	3. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. The time limit of 14 days for the inclusion of documents in the home case shall be set. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U191	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U192	4. - Commission proposal. It is stipulated that co-owners of the residential house or the owner have the opportunity to get acquainted with the home property without restrictions. In the Commission, proposal 4 has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U193	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U194	5. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Paragraph 3 of the transitional provisions, which is no longer relevant at the moment, shall be deleted. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U195	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U196	6. - a proposal drawn up by the Commission. It's about taking a house. The word “marriage” is replaced by the word “ruling” – “meal handling”. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U197	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U198	7. - a proposal drawn up by the Commission which requires the inclusion of information in the Construction Information System by 28 February 2023. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U199	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U200	8 / 8 - Commission proposal. The criteria for the provision of this information shall be laid down. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U201	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U202	I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U203	Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Administration of Housing Houses”! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U204	The deadline for submitting proposals - two weeks, that is, 17 February.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U205	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 17 February this year. On the agenda - consideration of draft decisions. Draft decision “On the Order of 12 January 2022 of the Cabinet of Ministers No. Order Nos 25 and 18 January 2022 37 amending Order of 9 October 2021 No. 720 ‘Advertising the Emergency’. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Ivan Klementjev.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U206	Hello, Madam President. Dear colleagues, We work with Cabinet Order No. 12 January 2022 25 ‘Amendments to the Cabinet Order of 9 October 2021 720 ‘Advertising the Emergency’. According to this order of 12 January, No. 25? This order requires that the separation of individual visitor flows be excluded from the case where goods ordered at point of sale in an epidemiologically secure environment at a distance are issued to visitors with an interoperable certificate. To specify the conditions for organising events, including the organisation of conferences and seminars. To determine that if, for objective reasons, in particular because of the Covid-19 positive test result, a member of the Professional Qualifications Exam Committee of the State Unitary Legal Officer will not be able to monitor the conduct of the exam, it will be possible to perform it by order of the Minister of Justice. Abolish certain travel restrictions in relation to the spread of omicron from certain African countries. The Ordinance requires that the separation of individual visitor flows be excluded where goods ordered at the distance of the point of sale referred to in point 5.15 are issued to visitors by means of an interoperable certificate in an epidemiologically secure environment. Similarly, the amendments to the order on the announcement of an emergency provide for clarification of paragraph 5.24 of the order, stating that the requirements of this paragraph also apply to conferences and seminars, and providing for the deletion of the condition that the visitors are present at personalized seats, with a free choice for the organiser of the event or conference, either to register the visitors to the event or the participants to the conference or to personalise. To determine the professional qualification examinations of a national single lawyer in presence at higher education institutions during the period from 25 January to 7 February of this year. The amendment offers the possibility, if necessary, of replacing a member of the commission and of carrying out this task by an order of the Minister of Justice for certain persons. They would be officials or employees of the Ministry of Justice, as well as representatives of the relevant universities. Given that the omicron is already widespread in the local community and that the imported cases are less significant, it is not necessary to impose a ban on entry from the countries particularly affected by the omicron. Similarly, it is not appropriate in this case to require pre-entry or border testing involving additional costs. Accordingly, the Ordinance provides for the lifting of the travel restrictions for the spread of omicron from the Republic of South Africa, Lesotho, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Mozambique, Namibia, the Kingdom of Swaziland and Malawi. Order No, on the other hand 37 from 18 January this year lays down conditions for the use and isolation of masks as well as for the quarantine of the house under conditions of omicron spread, as well as certain technical specifications to be adapted to previous amendments to this Ordinance and to Regulation No. 662. Ensure the possibility for municipalities to use the contact information provided by the National Health Service and the personal data at the disposal of the municipality to inform all persons declared in the respective municipality about the possibility to start vaccination or receive a booster vaccine in the territory of their municipality. Allow the employer to employ an employee without carrying out a compulsory health check in accordance with the laws and regulations regulating the procedure for carrying out a compulsory health check if the person has not carried out a periodic health check within the time limit set by the employer in relation to the risks of Covid-19 infection. Complement a draft with a rule on extending the normal overtime work to Prison Administration. To grant derogations from the seven-day rest period specified in Section 28(3) of the Ministry of the Interior System and officials of the Administration of Prisons with special service grades during the period of seven days provided for in Section 28(3) of the Law on Service Implementation, in order to maintain the capacity of the institutions of the Ministry of the Interior to ensure the performance of service tasks during the period of high incidence of Covid-19 infectious diseases. For exceptions concerning insulation time. It is established that an employee or assistant who has confirmed infection with SARS-CoV-2 virus or has a reasonable suspicion of infection confirmed by a positive antigen test, including a self-test, may fail to comply with the isolation conditions in order to carry out his duties in the presence if the following requirements are met and the relevant number of days has passed since the infection or confirmation of suspicion has been confirmed: the job can start not earlier than on the eighth day if the employee or assistant has no signs of disease and this is confirmed to the employer; 10 days use not lower class than the FFP2 breather without a valve, if there is more than one person in the room; 10 days do not establish close contacts with other people, do not visit public places and do not use public transport. Similar conditions are laid down for contact persons to determine that they may not comply with the house quarantine rules if certain conditions are met: a RNA or antigen test is carried out as soon as possible after the last exposure to the infected person and the quarantine of the house is observed until the result of the negative test; a repeat RNA or antigen test is carried out on the third or fourth day, and a non-valve buffer of at least FFP2 shall be used if there is more than one person in the room. It should be noted here that it is not a matter of self - testing. Also preferential arrangements for learners who may return to an educational establishment after their recovery or as contact persons if they have not shown any signs of disease since the confirmation of infection or suspicion took at least seven days and at least 24 hours prior to their return to the education process or at the place of provision of childcare services. For contact persons, these are 10 days and seven days of testing. In addition, the Ordinance addresses the issue of staff, employment and additional remuneration. In the Commission, the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers and the measures contained therein were supported. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft Saeima decision prepared by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U207	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U208	Thank you for your word. I would like to note that this order of the Cabinet of Ministers No. 720 from its date of issue, 9 October, 17 amendments have been made. This order was issued on the basis of the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers No. 662, which has also been amended 17 since the beginning of September when it was adopted... when the document was adopted. The volume of these documents has also increased in simply grandiose amounts, because of the Cabinet of Ministers Order No. 662 has already reached 340 points and more. What does that mean? This means that now even after consulting the lawyers... man from the edge, who should understand very simple... These regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, at present, are not able to explain, even by attracting the lawyers I mentioned, why these regulations regulate such or other activities in such very detailed terms for different situations. In my opinion, currently the Cabinet of Ministers has taken delight in the organization of life throughout the country, issuing these regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, amending them and supplementing them with orders. I understand that the moment when these regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers are coming to an end is coming to an end. And my concern is about one very important subject that no one really wants to talk about right now. In this case, I am referring to the fact that, at the end of the emergency, the moment will come when the emergency premiums will also end. So far, I have not heard any plans for how this system will work and whether it will work at all, because the emergency situation will end. Like these people who have received these bonuses... What will be the next step? How can they be maintained in the workplaces where they are now? There will be a certain degree of pity in receiving these high wages and there will be a lot of dissatisfied people. I'm not saying that these people don't have to get wages to... even the statutory salary of medical staff, whose rulers still do not provide the statutory order and amount, or the salary of police officers or other categories currently receiving these bonuses... The premiums will come to an end. What's the plan? There is no answer at the moment. Colleagues, I would call for perhaps this time to be received and for these amendments not to be approved and sent back to the Cabinet so that both No. 662, both this order No. 720 by simplifying them, making them as simple as possible and more understandable, while there is still time to put the plan out of this crisis in order to give people confidence that they will not lose out in this situation. At the moment, it seems that there is no plan, and, as I said, the penny is coming. How are we going to crave them out - that is a question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U209	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U210	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that the Commission supports these two orders: 25 and Nos 37. So I also call for support for the draft decision drawn up by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-03-PT13-2356-U211	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the order of 12 January 2022 of the Cabinet of Ministers No. Order Nos 25 and 18 January 2022 37 amending Order of 9 October 2021 No. 720 “Advertising the Emergency”! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda of the sitting has been examined. I must introduce you to the questions you have received. Members Švecova, Možvillo, Sprūde, Petraviča, Stepanenko submitted the question “On the fraud of millions of people’s accounts”, which we hand over to the Minister of the Interior for reply. Members Stepanenko, Sprūde, Možvillo, Švecova and Petraviča submitted the question “On the natural gas market” that we put to the Minister for Economic Affairs. Members Stepanenko, Sprūde, Možvillo, Petraviča and Švecova have tabled the question “On penal policy in controlling the epidemiological situation”, which we are referring to the Minister of the Interior. Members Stepanenko, Sprūde, Petraviča, Možvillo and Švecova submitted the question “On administration of real estate tax” that is submitted to the Minister of Finance. Members Stepanenko, Sprūde, Možvillo, Petraviča and Švecova submitted the question “On changes in the labour market and inspections of the State Labour Inspectorate”, which is submitted to the Minister for Welfare. Members Stepanenko, Sprūde, Možvillo, Švecova and Petraviča submitted the question “On purchases of monoclonal antibodies, Covid-19 vaccine donation and testing capacity”, which is submitted to the Minister of Health. There's also a record of Members. Registration is over. I therefore closed the remote emergency sitting on 3 February this year.
