ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the debate on preventing jihadists from returning to the Netherlands. I would like to welcome the Minister for Justice and Security, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Secretary of State for Justice and Security. I give the floor to Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius as the first speaker on behalf of the VVD. But I see Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u2	I want to make a point of order. It's the 6th now. It's almost 6:00. We must also give the staff and ourselves a meal today. If you add that up, it's 7:00. Then we have to have two very important major debates. We have a defence budget and an important debate with three directors and long speaking time. I understand that the judge will decide on an important part of this debate on 11 November. I think it is relevant to this debate. I also see the very high pressure on the agenda. With all these speakers, the long speaking time plus the ministers, I do not think we are doing justice to the importance of the subject. I must honestly say that I also find it difficult to talk about our soldiers and their budget in the middle of the night with a minister who hasn't had it easy in recent days either. I would like to make a specific proposal to thank the rulers for their arrival and to plan this debate at a later date after 11 November.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u3	Before I give everyone the floor, I would like to say that this debate was requested at the request of the majority. At the request of the majority, this debate had to be put on the agenda as soon as possible. A majority also felt that there should be three directors present in this debate. Of course, it is also a majority who decides whether or not we are having this debate tonight, but one thing I am sure is that this debate will not be planned for Christmas because of budgets and other urgent issues. I'll give you that. This will allow you to see if it can be planned somewhere in 2020. I'll go to Mrs. Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u4	Your final remark was the downer of the evening. I would have liked to move along, but after Christmas, we are not acceptable. Then there will be no delay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u5	Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u6	No delay, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u7	Mr Sjoerdsma, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u8	No delay, Mr. Chairman. All I can imagine is that we are going to an AO room to ensure that this debate can take place in parallel. But no delay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u9	Mr. Van der Graaf. Oh, that's the second time. Third time, I'm gonna buy you a drink. Mr. De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u10	Three times is a charm. After this, it probably won't happen again. No delay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u11	Mrs. Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u12	Let's have the debate now. I think it's taking too long to lift it over Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u13	Mr Van den Berge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u14	Support for Mr Van Raak's request. I think it would be easier if we found a general consultation or a different form of consultation, apart from the plenary agenda. That is a matter for our colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u15	Okay. Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u16	I'm not doing this because I don't think the subject is important, but because I think we should look out for ourselves in this Chamber. I think Mr Sjoerdsma's proposal on another place in this building is a good one. I can also very well imagine that we will discuss this as soon as possible after 11 November, for example on 12 November or whenever that is exactly, in one of the many meetings that we can hold extensively with the directors. I would like to put that as a second proposal. We can do it in another room now, but we can do it in another room later. The halls are not sacred; the debate is at the place where we are.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u17	Okay. Mrs Yeşilgöz.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u18	This debate was requested by me a few months ago, indeed in the short term. The interim proceedings referred to are presented much later. I suggest we just get started.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u19	There is therefore no support for the second proposal. Let's just get on with the debate. I give the floor to Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "I kept telling him it hurt. Please stop, testify the girl. He shut her up and tied her hands. Before he got involved with the 12-year-old girl, he started praying at the bed edge. He said Islam says he can rape an infidel. He said that by raping me, he's getting closer to God." Mr. Chairman. The New York Times spoke to 21 women and girls who escaped from the hands of IS fighters. The descriptions of a well organized slave trade and the systematic rape of Jezidi girls and women are confronting and nauseating. However, it is important that we hear this, because this is the reality, contrary to the picture that is regularly portrayed in our country of IS-goers with whom we should feel sorry. IS'ers who would be so sorry or, yet another beautiful, IS'ers who wouldn't even know that there is a war going on in Syria. You won't hear any pity from me for these war criminals. These people represent a great danger to our country and to our freedom. If you join an organization that wants to destroy our society, you don't belong in the Netherlands. In fact, we don't want you here anymore. You have nothing but nothing to do in a country you despise and for that reason have left. Mr. Chairman. One of the most effective ways to prevent return is to withdraw the Dutch identity of these terrorists. The reason for this debate was, among other things, the cancellation of this withdrawal by five jihadists, following a previous ruling by the Council of State. The current law should not be applied retroactively. Can the Secretary of State explain why she has so proactively reversed the decision to withdraw Dutch citizenship in these five cases? Is there any attempt to find new evidence to withdraw nationality? And what possibilities does it see to prevent these people from returning?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u21	Before I give you the floor, I forgot to agree on the number of interruptions at the beginning. I suggest we do two interruptions in two. Or you just ask four questions, one question and the other two, at least four questions in total. Mr. De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u22	The VVD has been in power for a long time. The VVD has responsibility and the VVD is also responsible for a lot of policies that Mrs Yeşilgöz speaks of. It's not about the first sentences, because that was the introduction to jezidi women that was horrible to hear, but that has to be discussed here. I agree with Mrs Yeşilgöz. It is a good thing that these texts are in the Acts. But then the question comes. Mrs Yeşilgöz says that these people do not belong in the Netherlands: we do not want them here. But there are already 60 back under the responsibility of the VVD. Ten of them have only been tried. What about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u23	I think Mr De Graaf and I share the same frustration. In recent years, laws have been passed in this Chamber to prevent these people from returning, for example by allowing us to withdraw nationality. I shall come back later in my text to the fact that this is not always the way I want it to be. I think we share that frustration. I have proposals on how we can perhaps do this even more smoothly, how we can even better and more effectively withdraw nationality. I think we should go and find out what else we can do. In recent years, laws have been passed to ensure that we can achieve this. I agree with Mr De Graaf that it is also reflected in my text that we are not yet there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u24	I will wait for the proposals and then come up with my next question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u25	Continue, Mrs Yeşilgöz.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u26	The absence of the retroactive effect of the law is not the only complicating factor in the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship. That is one of the points I wanted to come back to. At the end of September 2019, the Minister of Justice and Security, in replying to written questions from VVD and CDA, indicated that, where possible, the Public Prosecutor is committed to criminal prosecution. Where this is not possible or not appropriate, the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship may be a measure which is necessary in the interests of the protection of national security. This surprises me. In fact, we passed a law in the Chamber in 2016 which explicitly states the opposite. We have agreed that it is difficult to wait until the person concerned has returned to our country and has been prosecuted and convicted. That is precisely because of the immediate threat to national security. I would like to ask the Minister how he reconciles these two facts. I would like the Minister not to hide behind the prosecution, which attaches more importance to trial in the Netherlands than to the withdrawal of Dutch nationality. I would like to ask the Minister of Justice and Security to come up with an urgent legislative amendment to better regulate the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship. I'd like a response to that. Mr. Chairman. There are more ways to keep our country safe and prevent these people from coming here. We would like to see unfamiliar travellers of Dutch nationality who reach a consulate not given consular assistance to return, but transferred to the local authorities. To what extent are travellers already being transferred to the local authorities? To what extent is it considered whether double-national travellers can be transferred to the country of that other nationality? Furthermore, the VVD wants these people to refuse a passport. However, we are now hearing that there is no basis for this. In this case, can the Minister of Foreign Affairs, I think, or else the Secretary of State, explain why this is not possible under Article 23 of the Passport Act? Mr. Chairman. Preventing jihadists from returning is just one part of the story. These people must, of course, pay for their horrible deeds, where they have committed their vile crimes. The crimes were committed there. The victims fell there. The witnesses and the evidence are all there. Let the process take place there. I am pleased that Minister Blok is working hard to bring Iraq and other countries to local trial so that the perpetrators with a severe sentence can go to prison there. That's our option. If necessary, the VVD is prepared to release some conditions previously stipulated by the Netherlands, because we think that is so important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u27	First of all, I agree with the VVD: ISIS fighters must of course be tried and what they have done is barbaric. But the story of the VVD is a bit of a two-thinker. On the one hand, "we're taking the passport," on the other hand, "people need to be tried." But how are we going to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u28	Mrs Yeşilgöz.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u29	An international law adviser has said that it is not so easy to set up such an ISIS tribunal, for example. The countries there are not waiting for it at all. So how are we gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u30	As far as the VVD is concerned, we are going to do this locally, for example in Iraq with the Iraqis. The Iraqis themselves now state that there are a number of complex factors. They say they need support and resources and are not prepared to simply change their entire legal system. As I have just said, the VVD considers it justified to discuss here with each other whether we can release some of our terms so that the local trial can take place there. The point is that we want to withdraw those passports, that we want to withdraw the nationality. So that's not two thoughts. These people have lost the right to Dutch citizenship; we do not need it here. But then we do not let go of our responsibility, because we do want them punished for their disgusting deeds. That is what happens when it comes to the VVD in Iraq. The victims also indicate that they would like to do so in the region, where there are witnesses and the burden of proof, and thus the best chance of severe punishment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u31	My second question, Mr President. The VVD says "we'll have to let go of some conditions." Does the VVD also say: if Iraq wants to impose the death penalty, is that acceptable to the VVD? This is quite apart from the question of whether it can all be arranged and whether we can make those agreements with Iraq.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u32	The VVD is not in favour of the death penalty. Nor is the cabinet. But there will come a time when we must be honest with each other to see if that could not be the ultimate consequence of what is going on here. These people knowingly went to the caliphate to commit themselves to a battle that is really aimed at destroying everything we stand for here in this house. And they did at a time when the death penalty was already in force in Iraq, for example. It already exists. So they knew that. If they then commit their terrible crimes there and the Iraqis say 'this is within our legal system; we do want to punish, but if the ultimate consequence can be that the death penalty is', then I think, yes, the VVD believes that we should discuss this with each other. It can't be that local trial can't take place or that it takes forever until we settle it with each other, because we don't engage in that conversation. So, yes, it's not a pleasant conversation. I am not in favour of it either, but it could be the ultimate consequence. And we have to face them, because our responsibility remains the safety of Dutch people here in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u33	Continue, Mrs Yeşilgöz. No, third question for Mr Van den Berge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u34	I am going to sacrifice my third question because I think this is such a fundamental point. I am really shocked that the VVD says: well, we are of course against the death penalty, but as long as it happens there, we need to be able to talk about it. It scares me. I will come back to this later in my own contribution, because I may wish to speak on it in the Chamber. I find it really unacceptable, and I think that we are crossing boundaries there in terms of human rights, international agreements, which we should not want to deal with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u35	I hear that this discussion has been conducted extensively in a general discussion of international crimes, but not with the same spokesmen. I understand that, because you were in the Education budget all day today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u36	It is true that some of it has come by, but we have also all referred to this evening's debate. There will be a bit of a duplication, but it is such a fundamental point that I think it is right that we should also be discussing it in this Chamber. Frankly, I do not think that a statement by the Chamber is a bad idea either, because this is very important. It is very important that we discuss this with each other. I would like to add one more thing. A question had been asked and we will be talking about it in a moment. Reference was made to human rights. Human rights have been grossly violated in Syria and Iraq. If we do not get the local trial done and there is a risk that these people will be able to return here with the enormous threat they are taking for us in this country, then I really think that we should take on that conversation from our responsibility for the safety of Dutch people and that we should be prepared to release those conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u37	This goes against the cornerstones of our rule of law, but also against the international commitments made by the Netherlands: the European Convention on Human Rights and its protocols. It may also go against our Constitution. Perhaps more pragmatically, to quote the VVD, I am also looking at the policy of the Foreign Minister, who is working against the death penalty worldwide and who must also stand up for Dutch people who are given the death penalty elsewhere. We are talking, for example, about lhbti'ers, who, because of their sexual orientation, could be sentenced to death...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u38	And the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u39	One more thing. Or, for example, atheists in Saudi Arabia, who, because they are atheists, are terrorists and can also receive the death penalty. Then you undermine this minister's policy of getting those people free of the death penalty. Is that what you really want?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u40	No, I don't. I am referring specifically to unknown travellers who have left for Syria and Iraq to join a fight aimed at destroying our rule of law, precisely what Mr Sjoerdsma has just referred to. I know that the cabinet, the Foreign Minister, is working very hard to engage in talks with other countries around us and in Iraq, precisely about releasing the death penalty. I'm just saying that there's gonna be a moment when we're gonna have to accept that the ultimate consequence is on the table. I am not prepared to let go of the talk about local trial, because the Iraqis say: we do not, we have our own legal system and we are not prepared to change that for you. When it comes to that, I want local trial of these jihadists to take precedence. Then it is indeed the ultimate consequence, which these people themselves knew very well. This does not apply to all the other cases referred to by Mr Sjoerdsma. I'm very specific about this now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u41	Mrs Yeşilgöz can say: I am very specific about this. But she actually puts a bomb under general policy and I'll explain to you why. When Minister Blok arrives in Saudi Arabia, Indonesia or in other countries where people are sentenced to death, sometimes also Dutch, he can now say: we are always against the death penalty. But if we did what Mrs Yeşilgöz says, those countries would say, "Yes, wait a minute. When it was convenient for you, you were there for it. These are the laws in our country. Here are Ihbti'ers illegal. Here, atheists are illegal. They're terrorists. Walk down another door." That's what Mrs Yeşilgöz says tonight. I really ask you as a fellow-liberal: please withdraw that position.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u42	I am saying here that if we do not do this, it can be very realistic that there can be no local trial and so can mean that these people end up in the Netherlands or in another country around us in the Schengen area, where there are thousands of travellers. This may mean that these people can walk around freely and pose an acute threat to our national security. This is not a choice I think: this is easy and fun, this is what we have to do. We must bear in mind our security here in the Netherlands and in Europe. Then we're talking about this conversation, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u43	I do envy Mrs Yeşilgöz a bit. It seems as if it is a very simple issue that lies ahead and that the solutions are so simple, while I find it so devilishly complicated myself. Because I want to keep terrorists there. I don't want anything to do with that. At the same time, my fear is that my question is that we cannot reach agreements with Iraq, apart from the fundamental issues, when I see the situation there now: the squares are full of demonstrators. My question is very specific as to how realistic the VVD considers it that they should be brought to justice at all, regardless of the penalties they will pass.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u44	I experience it as anything but simple. I hope I don't radiate that, because this is extremely complex. We are talking about very fundamental issues and ultimately it all comes back to the question of how to ensure that we keep Dutch people safe. As far as I am concerned, therefore, this is about the toughest subject we can discuss here. So it's not easy. I do think we should be very realistic, precisely because it is very difficult to achieve that local trial now and precisely because Iraq says: "I am not just going to change my legal system. I need much more than just a request from Europe or conversations. I need more than that. I need recognition that I can maintain my legal system, I need resources and I need support." I'm just saying, let's say here with each other that we're willing to deliver that. Then I guess local trial can certainly be realistic. I'm really not prepared to let go of that idea right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u45	You don't have to be willing to let it go. I'd like to raise the question again: what if it doesn't work? That's a pretty good chance. That is what we are going to ask Minister Blok. Then what's the alternative? Then we just take away the Dutchmanship and let them go without punishment, with all the risks that they have to come here anyway? Does Mrs Yeşilgöz accept that? Is that the alternative scenario that she's okay with?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u46	We are here in the Dutch Parliament and we are all able to make our own line and policy on it. So what if it doesn't work? No, what if we all join forces and make it work? Because if it doesn't work, the consequence is huge. That is why I would like to use this debate to do everything possible, so that Minister Blok and his colleagues have everything in their pocket to say: this is what we want and we are also prepared to deliver.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u47	Third question, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u48	Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. I think it's too easy anyway. After all, I want to discuss everything seriously today, so I would also like to discuss seriously what the alternative is if the wish scenario fails. Can we talk about that openly? Because if we don't, we're just doing politics and not really having an honest debate with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u49	My line is made up of two lines. The point is, we don't want these people here. They have lost the right to Dutch citizenship, so in any scenario they are not welcome here as far as I am concerned. But I don't want them to get away with their crimes, and that's why I want to do everything I can to get to local trial. Those two lines must be very clear. I don't want these people here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u50	I can go a long way with the VVD, because I actually feel the same way about it. I would also prefer to have them tried there and if the price were the death penalty, I think, given the atrocities as genocide they have committed, in my heart: whatever. But we have to be realistic with each other, because that means that we are also saying that we are abandoning our international conventions, the European Convention on Human Rights and the International Convention. I think that's a price I can't afford. Even though I would think "put them against the wall," to put it bluntly, there are fortunately laws and treaties that eventually replace those primitive feelings that I also have. I'd like the VVD's response to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u51	This is exactly the struggle I'm in and where the VVD is in. In the end, we do share that awareness, but this is my explanation in the Schengen area of thousands and thousands of extravagants who are about to arrive. I am absolutely not saying here that our international treaties would no longer matter or that I would want to undermine them. I'll tell you to check whether you're prepared, whether your laws, regulations and treaties are prepared. Do we have an answer to the question of what to do if we can't stop them from coming back, if we can't withdraw those passports, if we can't take the nationality away, and if we can't bring them to justice? Yes, it's a very intense struggle, but I think we should make this exception with each other for this case, for what's going on here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u52	I think it's a little too easy just to put it here. Of course, the CDA has been struggling with this for a long time. This has, of course, already been looked at. The fact is that if we want to do this, we must denounce our major European and international treaties. And the specific question is whether the VVD wants that. We also did not create the protocols to give ourselves room for that one day, precisely for this reason. So it's a little too easy to just call it the struggle. I'd like to get an answer from the VVD. Are we going to fight to get these international treaties abolished?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u53	I do not want to abolish anything at all, even if it is a question of whether it should be such a battle. We are not the only country that is struggling with this. We are dealing here with travellers who we are very concerned about, but countries around us are dealing with thousands of extravagants. Their problem is even greater in that sense. And in the end we are in the Schengen area, so we share the problem. What I really want is for the Minister to put the question to his colleagues: if the Iraqis do not want to change their legal system, do we have to stick to our terms or do we deal with them pragmatically in this way? That doesn't make it easy for me to see or think we'll settle that for a while. The problem is just so big that I cannot afford not to have discussed it here and not to have proposed that we put it on the table. This local trial is incredibly important, both for the victims and for our own safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u54	Third question, Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u55	Finally, this is too easy an answer. We can't just say again how huge the problem is, because I think we've all seen it. We've all seen those screaming women in those black rags on television, which you think is, how is it that they ever come back? Then there's people they think are pathetic. Not us! But we cannot just say that we are prepared to think about it without saying that these treaties do not matter anymore. That is where my explicit hesitation lies, because those treaties do matter. So I want to know whether the VVD is prepared to say that it considers the problem to be so great that it knows itself, if necessary, but no longer bound by international treaties. Because that would be the consequence. There is exactly the hesitation, which may make us unable to cross that bridge, even if we want it in our hearts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u56	I'm not just saying it's a problem. I would like to make a number of specific proposals in order to prevent it from becoming an even bigger problem. I did not say that we should cancel these international treaties, but I do want a realistic look. I do not want to send the Foreign Minister endlessly towards the Iraqis and let them talk to everyone, knowing that the Iraqis say they do not want to change their legal system. So we have to be realistic.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u57	I'm detecting a pattern. I have therefore listened carefully to the interrupting debates between the members of the coalition and I am already seeing the VVD debacle emerging. The 130 km/h has been surrendered, money has gone to the Greeks, the mortgage interest deduction: we can name the whole rigging. And here's the next point. This morning we read an article by Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius in the AD, we see her at Wakker Netherlands and we see everywhere the VVD use great words about the problem we are talking about today. Mrs Yeşilgöz makes comments and within three interruptions everything has already been destroyed. This is the next point the VVD is going to turn in. I've been standing here for five years trying to get real measures, and we're still snooping in the margins. Mrs Yeşilgöz has already lost the debate. I think we can tell the Defense spokesmen we'll be ready by 7:30...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u58	They'd be very happy, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u59	... because the debate is not going to lead to anything. I would like a response from Mrs Yeşilgöz.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u60	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u61	I am being blamed by Mr De Graaf for making concrete proposals here and for criticizing them by colleagues. So I invite him to intervene with those colleagues and convince them to support these proposals, because these are just concrete proposals aimed at preventing them from coming here and getting them to be punished for what they have done. So let me interpret this as support from the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u62	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u63	That threat is not just in our country, as I said in an interrupting debate. I would like to know from the Minister for Foreign Affairs what is the current state of Schengen cooperation. Then, of course, it's the thousands of extravagants. How is it jointly ensured that these jihadists do not return? So this question is broader than just local trial. I think this is a joint effort. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna finish with a call. I think all my colleagues made this call, but I'm going to put it here anyway. Let us listen to the real victims, rather than to the regrets and so-called IS brides. I also hope that we will never use that word here again, Mr President. As far as the VVD is concerned, that starts with receiving women who have been truly victims of these terrible crimes, such as Nadia Murad and other victims, here in the House of Representatives, so that everyone can hear the atrocities that have been committed to the actual victims first hand and so that we can protect them, rather than male and female terrorists. I would like to make a proposal for this and I hope that my colleagues will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u64	Thank you, Mrs Yeşilgöz. I now give the floor to Mr De Graaf on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to get right on that. Indeed, if we really want to protect people, we should have done much more in the last five years. There is no need for small measures. There is no need for measures in the margins. Major measures are needed. That is why I am pleased that the issue of the withdrawal of treaties has just been discussed, because the Netherlands has gone madr, to speak with Professor Bob Smalhout more blissfully. The Netherlands has gone mad. We are encased in international treaties, in the ECHR, in the right to family reunification, the right to family life and other human rights. We're sealed up in the EU. We're sealed into the Schengen area. Where aren't we sealed up? In the end, the result is that there are already 60 scum in the Netherlands. Because when it comes to the name, it's just scum. They're terrorists. "Jihadists" is all too lenient to me. Only ten have been tried. And what do they get? The women will be punished for two or three years. The men get a five to six-year-old prank. At the expense of the taxpayer, they can continue to radicalize joyfully in their Islamic evils in those years. And the society called the Netherlands is blessed, which of course is not really so. The opposite is true. People who knowingly went to that area to support Islamic evil there and who in the most horrific way supported a disgusting regime there, must never enter the Netherlands again. We've already got 60 back and we've got to get them out. Let me give you one example. Angela Barreto, for example, I'll give that to the Secretary of State... is half Dutch, half Portuguese. Is there perhaps a bit of a rush to take away the Dutchmanship as well? She is just one of the many examples of the women who went there voluntarily. Then the Portuguese are stuck with it. And can we immediately cancel Schengen, so that it can no longer enter the Netherlands? Because under the radar they all end up here again on the turntable that Holland is. For five years, we have been almost alone in all the calls we make for real measures, such as closing the borders for that scum. I had actually prepared a text on this, but I have already had half of it in much shorter time. That is only good for the debate. Mr. Chairman. I just had an interrupting debate with Mrs Yeşilgöz. Because we're rattling in the margins, I see again that we're late again. It's too little, too late, put in good Dutch. We're not coming. We have to close the borders. We must take great measures if we want to protect the Netherlands from that evil, if we want to keep our country safe from our children. Everyone here always talks about the consequences for the children. You just have to call the word "climate" or the world will end again for our children. But we can't talk about safety. We can't talk about safety. We should all let those thugs in because of the ECHR. What's that? The Netherlands has gone mad! I already started it. The frustration is dripping away. My predecessor used that word as well. Then some left-wing parties say: we're going to deradicalize programs on those people. Like that's gonna work. That's some kind of deprogramming. That might be possible in a totalitarian state, in North Korea or in China. Where people are oppressed, maybe you can try to deprogram them. This cannot be done in the open, free society that we are all trying to be here, with the question of what is left of that freedom, by the way? Let the first to provide scientific evidence on deradicalization programs, but get up and come to the interrupt microphone. I predict: there is no one who has that evidence. Deradicalisation programmes are a very nasty experiment with fatal consequences. That's what I predict to you. Next point, Mr President, which is really the subject of the debate, which has been requested: the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship. Seven jihadists got their Dutch identity back after previous withdrawal, and another 100 waiting for withdrawal. And then we won't even talk about what goes on in that horrible Schengen area with all these open borders. Thousands of them are out there. Isn't there a solution? Sure you do. There's no will. That's the story. Turkey has said it will send everyone back. So what do we do? Siddering for Erdogan. I'd like a response from the rulers. Erdogan has the key here. He'll send anyone he wants back. If we don't close the borders, everyone will come in and we'll be stuck with the thugs. The D.A.'s giving bad advice to the minister. Fortunately, the Minister has put them aside, but with all the treaties and the like that we have and with all the subsidised lawyers who want to bring refugees but also jihadists, we will see that these people will eventually come to the Netherlands. What's the Minister gonna do? Is he going to go through the D.A.'s office one day if they deliberately throw him on the wrong foot with Erdogan in the neck? Mr. Chairman. "Close those borders, never another return jihadist into the country," I have here. Yeah, I think I've said it twice. And those others, who have already returned, must get out. You have to take away the Dutchmanship, detain it, and then turn it off. It's not harder. Who says this can't be done, who means he or she doesn't want to. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Another point about the jihadists, those two women with their children who have reached Ankara. Fortunately, Mrs Yeşilgöz has already appointed the story of the Jezidi women. It's horrible. For example, read the booklet Shoot the women first. I've named that before. The women are the worst. And I'm not saying that with a lot of fun to the women who sit here, for example. But the fact is, those Jezidi women confirm once more. It's the worst in torture, the worst in ways of killing, slave trade, organizing rapes. It's disgusting. Two reach Ankara, and then what stands out? This includes the question of who they have had help from, because you cannot travel through that inhospitable area without help. That needs to be clarified. I'm almost done, Mr. Chairman, I'm gonna finish. How can it be that one of these two has been withdrawn from the Netherlands exactly one day before Ankara was reached? Then there must be information about the fact that they're on their way. So much more needs to be known about who helped these women, because there is information. I would like the Minister of Justice and Security to give this transparency and clarity, otherwise we will perhaps have another debate here in a few years' time, as we did last night. We don't need that. We need tough measures to remove the scum from the Netherlands and not allow jihadists to return. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u66	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u67	Mr. Chairman. Almost seemed ISIS defeated. This horrible terrorist organization ran out of territory. Almost all of her fighters were trapped in detention camps. But after a few weeks ago, the chaos in Syria is perhaps greater than ever in this area. More than 700 ISs, including two Dutch women, escaped the detention centers and are partly free. That's indigestible. What's it gonna be like being a victim or next of kin face to face with ISIS fighters who raped your sister, killed your parents, took your house? What must it be like to see these criminals not only not be tried but also go free? As far as D66 is concerned, the interests of the victims are therefore a priority: to try these criminals, and to prevent them from committing crimes again in the region or coming under the radar to Europe and the Netherlands, with all the risks involved. Mr. Chairman. Today, therefore, we are talking about the strategy of this cabinet. I have a number of questions to ask. My group has been clear. Unlike other groups, we want to give the cabinet the room to act. First of all, trial. The cabinet wants the trial to take place as far as possible in those countries where the crimes have taken place. That's understandable. This could be done through an international tribunal, with the support of D66, but this led to a blockade in the Security Council and, unfortunately, a dead-end route so far. The cabinet is now in talks with Iraq. That's fine, too, but the Iraqi Foreign Minister really pierced that balloon last week. I can say three things about that. The Iraqi law does not allow foreigners who have committed crimes in other countries to be tried in Iraq. Two. Iraq will not suspend the death penalty. That is the red line of the Netherlands, at least that is how I always understood it. Three, and not an incomprehensible argument: the Iraqi Foreign Minister asks how we actually think that Iraq has the capacity to do so. We ourselves have thousands of warriors; things that are going to last two or three years each. We don't have the capacity to do that. Then how are we to do all these thousands of foreign fighters, without capacity, without money, and with these red lines? Well, that does raise some questions, doesn't it? The question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: did you not know these objections from the outset, and has this process with Iraq not been presented with something rosy? And what do you think of the statements made by the former Minister of Defence, a prominent VVD politician, but now also UN Special Representative in Iraq, who says that Iraq cannot do this at all, and do not even begin to do so? Has Iraq ever given the impression of wanting or being able to comply with Dutch requirements? I also ask the cabinet to confirm that the Netherlands will never cooperate in the trial that may end in the death penalty. Mr. Chairman. I'm just gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u68	I think the view of D66 is clear. I also think it's a struggle, as I just indicated. But there's one more phase for it. We also hear that there is sometimes even no cooperation on evidence, because Iraq has the death penalty. If we do not cooperate, are we not at a much greater risk, namely that people will eventually be convicted of something they may not even have done? So it's not even more dangerous to cooperate at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u69	What I argued in general consultation this morning International crime is that the Netherlands must do everything it can to help gather the evidence that there is plenty, whether it is documents that have been extracted from IS-salary offices, which they had, whether it is DNA that has been excavated from mass excavation, or the movies on the Internet. This can be done in the region, via UNITAD, I say to Mrs Van Toorenburg. As Europe, we could be more supportive there, given how small that team is. But it can also be done here in the Netherlands, as I argued this morning. I suspect that the International Crimes Team is very good quality, but may not have enough capacity for the challenge that is now coming. I would be horrified if international crimes, crimes against humanity and perhaps even genocide could not be punished because the evidence is not in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u70	Last question, Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u71	It might be nice to tell you where I was this morning. I was at a symposium this morning in a women's prison. Why did I go there? To get back to the idea of how awfully dangerous some women can be. That aside. But do I hear D66 say that it's okay to help with evidence gathering for trial in the region as well? If it is true that D66 states that, then D66 is simply cooperating, as far as I am concerned, with a possible sentence in a country suffering the death penalty.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u72	I have the feeling that Mrs Van Toorenburg is now trying to create something that is not there. Very flat: this cabinet has been supporting me since I have to go back to a few foreign ministers, Minister Koenders, I think, because it is so important that the evidence is gathered. This cabinet could perhaps support the UN, UNITAD, in gathering evidence in Iraq. So I do not see very well why Mrs Van Toorenburg would want to infect it in one way or put it in the corner of Mrs Yeşilgöz's comments on pragmatic dealing with the death penalty. Of course this isn't. This is about something completely different. This is about combating impunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u73	Mr Sjoerdsma began by recognizing the suffering of the victims. I find that rather difficult when you then listen to the continuation of the argument. D66 makes it very clear: we do not want to abandon a condition. There is a good chance that the local trial will not take place, that these people will eventually come here and perhaps walk freely here after a very short sentence. If something terrible happens because these people were out here, what do we say to the victims? What do we say to them? That they were walking around here freely instead of being tried and punished because we didn't want to let go of the condition? And the current victims of ISIS state themselves: please try them in the region, do everything for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u74	Look, you can't judge people until they're in jail, I've always learned. I don't know if it has gone unnoticed in recent weeks, but 700 IS fighters have escaped into Syria. They're criminals of the worst kind. Those are people who have gone unpunished. Those are people who can come back into contact with all the victims they've made. I do not really understand Mrs Yeşilgöz's speech. It is acting as if local trial would ensure that this does not happen, while the path of local trial is currently bringing the victims, for whom we would all like to stand up, back into contact with the perpetrators. That fact in this difficult security dilemma should also give the group of the VVD the idea of how we could do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u75	Exactly. Mr Sjoerdsma has actually listed it at the beginning of his speech. The Iraqis have indicated that they need support, resources and space to set up their legal system as they wish. That's exactly what I argued. I said that this is urgent and that this local trial really needs to be done quickly to prevent more people wandering around there and that we are maintaining or getting this situation. Let us listen to the Iraqis and engage in a serious discussion about what they themselves say they need in order to achieve it there. I really don't understand how D66 says: which is noted, we're going to take the risk of them walking around here again after a year or two years. And that's the best case, because that's what happens if they're already punished.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u76	I sometimes feel that politicians want to play hide-and-seek with reality. If Mrs Yeşilgöz is talking about settling the trial in Iraq quickly, then I really have to tell her that I suspect there will be a civil war there rather than Iraq being able to deal with these numbers of foreign fighters. I would also very much like that trial to work locally, close to the victims. I'd really like to see it. But I would also very much like to win the lottery and want world peace. But I can see that the odds are very small. I think Mrs Yeşilgöz also sees that the chance of local trial is not so great anymore, let me say euphemistically. We must then consider what the plan B is to ensure that these people are tried, that they cannot commit their crimes there again in the region and that they cannot get under the radar to the Netherlands and Europe in any way. That is also in the interests of our safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u77	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u78	Mr. Chairman. I had come to the point where impunity is now threatening. That raises the question of what is the government's trial strategy now that the Iraq route is dead. I also said in an interrupting debate that I would ask the cabinet to look closely at the capacity of the international crime team. The Foreign Minister might be able to see if it is possible to support UNITAD. I would like a response from both ministers. Mr. Chairman. Security in the region and here. 700 IS fighters, including two Dutch women, have escaped. That's something my party warned about earlier. The Kurds cannot be responsible for guarding these criminals forever when they are themselves attacked. Let me say again: that is the reality and that is not possible. We are deeply concerned that terrorists are coming under the radar to Europe and the Netherlands. We all remember Bataclan and who the terrorists were there. My questions to the cabinet are as follows. Has the NCTV ever advised the Minister of Justice, in a memo or in a briefing, that from the security point of view this service would rather bring Dutch IS'ers checked to the Netherlands than leave them there? How does the cabinet weigh the risk of escapes and the chance that people leave for the Netherlands under the radar? Earlier, the Foreign Minister said that the escapees from Kurdish camps were not Dutch. It turned out to be two women. Did the Cabinet know about this escape? If not, how sure is the cabinet that there are no more fugitives? If so, why hasn't it been reported? What contacts have been made between the Turkish and the Dutch authorities on this matter, and when? How does the cabinet weigh the chance that IS-fighters will come into Assad's hands, the Assad that the Netherlands has tried not to recognize in recent years; let me put it this way, and that he will then blackmail us with the release of these people? That's not an unreal scenario, but it's a nightmare scenario. Mr. Chairman. Dutch children are now growing up in camps, in the caliphate between barbed wire. How does the Cabinet consider the NCTV's opinion that the children there are not radicalised, but that the chance of being there every day increases? What are the government's chances of those kids dying there? Which European countries are considering picking up these children? Mr. Chairman. A few weeks ago, there was a tipping point in Syria. Reality has changed incredibly. For our security and for the sake of trial, I think that perhaps we should also adapt our strategy to that. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u79	Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u80	Mr. Chairman. No big words or very decisive solutions from me today, because I think this is an incredibly complicated subject. Sensitively, we all say: leave the terrorists there! We all sympathize with the victims and we also see how incredibly complicated it is to come up with measures. The only question I want answered by the cabinet today is the following. Does the cabinet do what is most sensible for the sake of Dutch security or do other motives play a role? Mr President, that is why I have a number of questions. Firstly, I am asking questions about the scenario of the trial of terrorists in Iraq. Iraq is actually saying and doing what we Dutch people are doing. It declares foreigners undesirable and in our case prefers to send them back to the Netherlands. If Iraq wanted that, it would be a very realistic scenario from Iraq. Firstly, I ask Minister Blok and also Minister Grapperhaus how realistic the scenario is to arrive at a local trial system. I am not even talking about the matter of principle or whether it fits within the human rights framework. How realistic is it to arrive at a local trial? How much time would that waste? My second question is to what extent we now have all the jihadists in view. What does the STUD know? What does the AIVD know? How do we keep the jihadists in sight? And if they do not return to the Netherlands, if they are declared undesirable and if their passports are withdrawn, how do we keep them in view? In the big crisis of 2015, the large influx of refugees, we saw that screening was incredibly complicated. In the Netherlands it was not even in order, let alone at the borders of Europe. To what extent will we cooperate with other European countries? Are there any agreements on this now? How do we control that? Mr. Chairman. How does the cabinet judge the NCTV's words that it is in the interests of Dutch security that mothers and children return to the Netherlands? How does the cabinet judge Jeanine Hennis-Plasschaert's words? She says: what you want or want from Iraq is not realistic. In the interests of Dutch security, you will have to take into account the scenario that you are going to actively bring people back, so that you can at least get a picture of them and bring them to justice. For example, how does the cabinet weigh up the words of Paul van Tigchelt, the head of the Belgian NCTV, who, in the interests of their national security, says that you should not so much take away nationalities, but should actively bring people back? That is also in the interest of Dutch security, because this is the only guarantee that you actually keep people in view. Mr. Chairman. What's the relationship with the state's attorney's office now? We read in the newspaper that the Public Prosecutor says that it no longer wants to cooperate in the taking away of Dutch nationality, because the public prosecutor thinks that this is counterproductive. Minister Grapperhaus disagrees. Does this position mean that we can no longer take away Dutch nationality at all? How decisive is another option of taking away nationality? Or is it a beaten to death road? If this is the only scenario you're aiming for, when it's no longer realistic, then you need to think about alternatives. Mr. Chairman. How does the Netherlands deal with the fact that we can see that there are very young children in a situation that is very undesirable to them? We constantly feel and also state that this is not desirable. Youth protection says that we cannot leave these children to their fate. A number of children have now been placed under supervision. How will this scenario develop? Is it true that the Dutch cabinet can actively encourage more children to be placed under supervision? Can you prevent you from automatically having to get the mothers back, or isn't that a realistic scenario? Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. The cabinet is divided in my opinion. There's been a collision with the state's attorney's office. Turkey is restless. The situation in Iraq is increasingly explosive. Youth protection gives certain advice. The Special Envoy in Iraq gives specific advice. The D.A.'s office is giving specific advice. The NCTV provides specific advice. And the cabinet seems to be doing the opposite. I understand how incredibly complicated it is, but are we still acting in the interests of Dutch security or do other motives play a role? I can live with any outcome, but I must have the confidence that really sensible, strategic decisions will be made and no political decisions or decisions on ostrich grounds. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u81	With respect for Mrs Kuik's broad statement on behalf of the Labour Party, I ask her who has been co-responsible for the policy that has been pursued in recent years since 2014, and the fried pears we are now dealing with. This is her party leader, Louis Asscher, Deputy Prime Minister in the previous cabinet, the Rutte/Asscher cabinet. Now, under the leadership of that same Lodewijk Asscher, the Group Assembly of the Labour Party has sent Mrs Kuik into the field with texts such as 'it is very complicated and therefore I cannot take a stand', and then she asks a number of questions that I have asked twenty times over the last five years. What does the PvdA want? How does the PvdA want to keep the Netherlands safe from the people who come here to ruin it? I'm just gonna put it out real nicely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u82	I don't want terrorists to come to the Netherlands, I don't want them to attack here. If we take away nationality, I am fine with it, but then they should be tried and not be able to go about their business with impunity. If that doesn't work, I'd like to look at an alternative scenario. How can you judge and lock people up in the Netherlands if necessary? That is what I want in the interests of the Netherlands. I also want to see a very specific look at vulnerable children, as we have repeatedly shared in debates. I just want to ignore the point that it's all so simple. Also the active retrieving of terrorists and bringing them here to justice is not so easy. It's not a scenario I'm necessarily waiting for. I can see that this brings with it all kinds of challenges, complexities and risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u83	Thank you for that answer. It makes a lot of sense. The clarity about what the PvdA wants is that there is actually no clarity from the Labour Party. The Labour Party can't sell it to its constituents that they just say: we want to keep the Netherlands safe, we don't want terrorists here, but it's all so complicated? The policy for which the PvdA is co-responsible has led to the return of 60 people who had joined ISIS. We know which people we're talking about. Ten of them have been tried. They got pranks. The Labour Party asks questions to the government if: is the Dutch interest sufficiently served? That's what all the questions depended on. That will take us ten years and then thousands have returned throughout the Schengen area.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u84	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u85	Then the Netherlands has been de facto made more unsafe by the Labour Party. And that's exactly the opposite of what Mrs. Kuik wants. My question is: does Mrs. Chicken of the Labour Party shake my hand and say to them, "Come, we're going to close the borders, we're going to keep them there and those who have returned, we're going to throw them out together"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u86	Mrs. Chicken. Mrs. Chicken!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u87	"That's good for our kids."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u88	What a bunch of bullshit. Firstly, we have simply supported the taking away of Dutch nationality. We did that, too. If that's enough to keep the Netherlands safe, fine! But I also need to be realistic. The NCTV, the Public Prosecutor, the Belgian NCTV and the Special Envoy for Iraq say: we do not think that will work. Then you have to look at an alternative scenario, don't you? That's what I'm gonna tell Mr. De Graaf. He constantly calls out in every debate on asylum or terrorism: close the borders, then the problem is gone. So you're basically just putting your hands in front of your eyes. Then you don't see or hear anything anymore and you do like those monkeys. That's what you do, Mr. De Graaf, and that just doesn't work. Stop it, because that's not helping!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I now give the floor to Mr Van den Berge on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u90	Mr. Chairman. One thing I think we all agree on. And that is that we are concerned about the security of our society as a result of the possible return of IS fighters and their family members. That is an understandable concern and a legitimate concern. In this respect, I do not want to detract from the stories that some of my colleagues have shared here about how victims have experienced, for example, the terrible barbaric crimes of IS fighters. What they say about it is terrible! I also understand the fear of returning these people very well. I also understand, as one of my colleagues mentioned, the primitive idea: if we keep them there, we will make our society safer and the problems will be solved. If only it were that simple, Mr. Chairman. I wish it were that simple. If we do not allow those IS fighters, their family members and their children to return in a controlled manner, then it will also be very difficult to bring them to justice. I hear very interesting theoretical discussions here about setting up an IS tribunal and about local trial, but that is also practically very difficult. I shall come back to the more fundamental objections, for example the human rights treaties. The President just pointed out that there was a general consultation on international crimes this morning. I was here at the time when I was dealing with the education budget, but I did, of course, consult with my colleague, Mr Bram van Ojik, because he spoke in that general discussion. There it has been extensive about local trial and we see that there are a lot of hooks and eyes attached to it. It's not easy to do that. We are talking, for example, about countries such as Iraq and Syria, which are often not waiting for them to do so. Moreover, these countries have legislation that runs counter to human rights treaties and children's rights treaties. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the next point. We stand here in the city of peace and justice. I am very proud of that and I am shocked to hear a colleague say here that the death penalty should perhaps be possible in the end, as long as it happens there and as long as it leads to local trial. This means that it seems that there is a great deal of value attached to this local trial. And again, I want to prosecute, too. I also want to do everything I can to deradicalize people. I also want to make sure that people don't get away with their punishment. But I do not want to pay the ultimate price for that local trial, namely that we are calling our human rights treaties into question and that we are going through that moral bottom line. GroenLinks has repeatedly asked the Cabinet in debates to ensure that our intelligence and security services, the Public Prosecutor's Office and youth assistance are ready for the return of people from IS areas. Because even if you think that is undesirable and even if you want to take away these people from the Dutch community, you know that the chances are enormous that they will still return, for example through illegal migration flows. They'll stay under the radar and then we'll have a lot less control over where those people end up. It is about people, whether you like it or not, who have a connection with the Netherlands, who have a family and a social network here. So there's a good chance she'll come back sooner or later. Not because I want to, I really am not waiting for that, let me be very clear about it, but because it is a very real scenario. GroenLinks then says: let's, if we know that that's a good chance, make sure we keep control of the direction. Then let us make agreements with our foreign partners on how children, but also later women of IS fighters, can return and be tried, where they have participated in terrible crimes. We read in the newspaper that the Public Prosecutor's Office warns against avoiding punishment at the time when we withdraw Dutch citizenship at the wrong time and from the wrong person. I would like to hear a response from the ministers. How do they see that? Can they promise here that the opinion of the Public Prosecutor will at all times play a leading role in deciding whether or not to withdraw the Dutch citizenship? In short, if the Public Prosecutor's Office warns that the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship in a specific case could lead to that person not being prosecuted and not being punished, this should lead, as far as we are concerned, not to withdraw Dutch citizenship. Mr President, as I have said, the stories of the victims are terrible, but I would also like to talk about the children. Before I came here to the House of Representatives, I worked for UNICEF in refugee camps. By the way, these were not camps with IS children, but, for example, with Rohingya refugees. UNICEF had a very nice slogan and I think they still have it: a child is a child, no matter what. Or in good Dutch: a child is a child, regardless. I think that's important. We made international agreements on children's rights for a reason. What their parents have done, children often can't do anything. I am not saying that the return of these children will not be a risk to society. We must therefore prepare ourselves very carefully for this. I therefore have that question for the directors: are we well prepared for it at the moment? Do we have a playbook for all the family members of ISIS fighters who may return? Do we know how the authorities should respond to this? Do we have enough information on what we can do? In short, are we sufficiently prepared? That concludes me, Mr President. I think we really should be careful not to hide behind some sort of illusionist policy and call for easy measures, like: we are moving into the Netherlands and then all the problems have disappeared and those people will never come back. That's an unrealistic scenario. We would prefer to prepare ourselves for the return of these people in the interests of the security of our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u91	Mrs Yeşilgöz for a brief interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u92	I hear Mr GroenLinks here saying that we should not talk about easy solutions, because that is not how it works. Then he comes up with a whole whim of incredibly easy statements, such as: we have to make agreements with other countries. But if we want to make agreements with other countries to make migration flows manageable, GroenLinks is not the biggest friend of the VVD. If we want to make agreements to ensure that the Schengen area is secured, and if we want to be very strict on the asylum flows that come in, then GroenLinks is never in favour of that either. What kind of agreements should we make that GroenLinks is in favour of? What is this really about? What concrete agreements can we make to prevent this kind of people, this scum, Europe and our country from entering?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u93	It is true that we are not generally the best friends with the VVD. That is a fair observation. I won't stand back from that either, because that's right. What kind of agreements do we want to make? Quite specifically, the United States, and other European countries, have called on us to work on the safest possible return of people from the IS area to prevent them from radicalising further, that they will at some point come back under the radar and perhaps do terrible things, even here in the Netherlands. We can make concrete agreements on how we should do this in practice. About how, for example, we involve youth assistance in the case of children in deradicalisation programmes. About how we involve the Public Prosecutor's Office and the intelligence and security services in order to minimise the risk to society. Moreover, I have never said that these are easy solutions; these are very complex solutions. But I do think they are more feasible than shouting: we take away the Dutchmanship, local trial and, if necessary, perhaps the death penalty, and then thinking that all the problems have been solved and every threat has disappeared. That is completely unrealistic.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u94	Finally, Mrs Yeşilgöz.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u95	I now understand the solution of GroenLinks. GroenLinks says, "Let those jihadists come here." I just heard that in the speech about children and mothers. It was also in UNICEF's distressing e-mail that we all received about what children are experiencing. I can really sympathize with that. At the end of the e-mail, in the last sentence, it is about bringing children and mothers back. If you look at the reports of our own services alone, let alone the international ones, then you can see what horrible crimes these women have been involved in. I know I had to be brief, but I'm really shocked that GroenLinks is throwing national security in the Netherlands like this, by saying: come and we'll see; we hope we can bring you to justice. The trial in the Netherlands is anything but long and we can also debate whether it is just.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u96	Now there's a caricature made of what I just said. I think I had a very nuanced story. I never said, "Let everyone come." In fact, I told you I'm not waiting for that. What I have said is that for our safety, for the imposition of sanctions and to prevent jihad fighters and family members who may have done terrible things from avoiding their punishment, I find it much more realistic to cooperate with other countries, to try people here and to use deradicalisation programmes. That's what I said. I repeat that here and there I stand for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u97	I think you were done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u98	I was done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u99	Thank you, Mr. Van den Berge. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u100	Thank you, Madam President. The story of Parwin, a young Jezidi woman, has struck me. She was 15 years old when she was kidnapped by ISIS five years ago and was locked up, raped and abused as a sex slave for months. It is estimated that 7,000 girls and young women have been kidnapped and sold as slaves. Parwin was one of them. Mr. Chairman. I'm experiencing the greatest possible inconvenience here today. Discomfort over the IS-goers who spit on the Dutch rule of law and who are now trying to get the same under the same rule of law. Discomfort over the Jezidis that were returned earlier this year, while their oppressors are now asking to be picked up. Mr. Chairman. Let me be clear. The loyalty and sympathy of the Christian Union go first and foremost to the victims and not to the perpetrators. They go out to Jezidis like Parwin and fled Christians, and not to the Syrians. Mr. Chairman. I also experience discomfort when it comes to the Kurds who are saddled with criminals, while they are now being attacked themselves. And also with the growing danger of radicalisation every day of young children trapped in the most horrible conditions, and with the question of what is now best served by the safety of the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union considers it important for justice to be done and for the Dutch government to assume its responsibility for national security. We continue to support the attitude of the cabinet. We attach great importance to the fact that we, as the Netherlands, together with other countries, are moving forward and taking steps. But we do have some questions. First of all, they're about the trial. What possibilities does the cabinet see for trial in the region where the crimes have been committed? A UN tribunal seems to be a crossing station and Iraq does not seem to want to cooperate. Where, according to the cabinet, is the real obstacle to the Iraqis now? Is that money, capacity, judges? We can find solutions to that. Or are those other standards? I'd like a response from the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. The trial of Syrians is not an obligation under international law, but the fact that Syrians can get away with their actions is inexcusable. If trial fails in the region, what is the alternative path in terms of trial? If camps in Syria are shut down, prisoners escape, the judge forces the Netherlands to act differently, as happened in Germany, or if large groups report to the embassies, are the schematics ready? Are we sufficiently prepared? Is the Netherlands able to control the safety risks that may arise for the Netherlands? Getting evidence around is very important for prosecution and trial, but it's very difficult. I ask the cabinet to what extent the Netherlands actively uses the international evidence bank established with data on the war in Syria. Can this evidence collected abroad be simply introduced and used in Dutch criminal proceedings? I'd like a response from the cabinet. I would also like to comment on the point of the prosecution, which states that the removal of nationality is an obstacle to legal proceedings in the Netherlands. If the D.A. asks for a temporary lifting of the junk declaration, what role does this play in the assessment that the Minister of Justice has to make of this? Mr. Chairman. Then the minors. I find it really unimaginable that parents choose to take their young child to such a terrible area as Syria, to raise it there in an IS caliphate and still to stay there under distressing circumstances. The great concern in the Netherlands has always been that if those children would come back, the parents would come along. If the Dutch nationality of a father or mother is taken away, as happened to a woman in Ankara this week, what consequences will this have for the children if they do have Dutch nationality? Is the concern still real that the parent can come or travel with us? I'd like a response. What are the possibilities of disabling parents from parental power or allowing them to voluntarily renounce them? What consequences does this have for a call for family reunification? As has already been said, the Christian Union supports the government's line. This also means that in individual cases, the two orphans will have their own consideration, as in the case of the two orphans before the summer. I ask the cabinet whether this individual weighting still takes place in the case of those children. Does the cabinet currently have enough room for action to make that weighting? I am thinking specifically of children in camps whose parents are no longer alive, young children whose parents have no prospect of release, or children whose custody is already provided for in the Netherlands. I'd like a response from the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. Last year, NCTV made it confidential that it would be better for national security to bring the children back, even if that means that mothers go along. If the return does not take place, the shared experiences in the shelter camps could form the basis for jihadist networks that could exist for generations. Is it true that this warning was given? What place did this get within the broader balance of interests that the cabinet makes? Mr. Chairman. I'll close with the jezidi. The current developments, including those relating to the interim measures, are far-reaching for them. I ask the cabinet if it is in contact with representatives of the Jezidi and if the Jezidi with their questions and concerns can go to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u101	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u102	Mr. Chairman. The immediate reason for this debate is the rather incomprehensible decision of the State Secretary to reverse the decision to deprive Dutch nationals of five extra-nationals. I'll get back to you on this. The debate has then widened to the question: how do we prevent jihadists from returning to the Netherlands? Let's just be honest with each other today. We can never absolutely prevent jihadists, extravagants, from eventually returning, no matter what we do. There are simply no easy solutions. Mrs. Kuik rightly pointed that out. There are very clear different views on how to deal with this. I believe I am the seventh speaker, and that is what has become clear today. Since the beginning of this debate, developments have taken place, including with regard to women and children in the Kurdish camps. We can then see that the administration's approach to the problem is on a steady track. That's a good thing, because in that line we can find ourselves. Where possible, a traveler, a jihadist, Dutch nationality is withdrawn. And we're not going to get them. If you report unexpectedly, you will see whether local trial is possible. If not, someone can be escorted to the Netherlands by a military police to be tried. The starting point is trial at the scene of the crime. I understand that the appearance of two women at an embassy caused some commotion, but I still don't see any policy change. And that's good. We have received some answers to questions today, but I would like to hear the most up-to-date state of affairs and whether there are any policy changes. I would also like to know the state of play in the attempt to establish an international tribunal as well as a trial in Iraq. I do not need to repeat myself or all the questions that have been asked. I'd like to hear from the rulers what the score is. Then there's the regrets. Several Members in the Chamber have already spoken about them. And I just have to say what I think here in Parliament today. It is completely bizarre that women, as well as men who have travelled to the caliphate to live there under the Sharia Act, should join an organization responsible for genocide, slavery, terrorist attacks worldwide and dozens, no, thousands of deaths in the world, now appeal to our civilisation, to our rule of law? That's insufferable! If IS had not been defeated, as far as that has already happened, would they have just continued in their ideal world under, eventually, the regime of Sharia? What a madness! And what a madness that 23 extravagants have been given the space to bring an interim suit against the State to be picked up from the battle zone. What complete madness! How is our rule of law presented to people who want to distance themselves from it? Maybe that also happened through some kind of legal aid? I'm actually curious about that. And I'd also like to know from the Cabinet what it's gonna do when a judge says, "Yes, go get them." What's the cabinet gonna do? I hardly ever get ahead of things, but I would like to answer this as soon as possible. I hope the cabinet's gonna do the same thing when a judge told them to go get it earlier. That's when none of our people sent it into the dangerous area. I hope that we will then simply resist in the interests of the safety of the Netherlands and the safety of our military. Is it not perhaps time for a provision that anyone who has renounced our legal order can no longer rely on it? I'm just thinking creatively about what that would look like. I'll keep doing that for a while. For this reason alone, we must continue to take away Dutch nationality from people who have turned their backs on the Netherlands. The Secretary of State indicated that she had reversed some decisions because she was afraid of a ruling from the Council of State. That was the reason for this debate. I just don't understand that. That's why I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State why she did that. Why didn't we just wait for the verdict? Isn't it true that on the basis of more and more pieces, including those of our security services, we understand that everyone who has been living there since March 2017 was part of IS? Then why are we going to keep our feet in the air for a court ruling? In this context, I would like to point out the following. From answers to questions from Mr Van Helvert, Mr Omtzigt and myself about withdrawing passports from Syrians who have joined'moderate groups', I would point out that some people cannot be banned from travelling and cannot be deprived of nationality if they have joined organizations such as Ahrar al-Sham. Of these, you can see that they are organisations that may not focus directly on terrorism here in the Netherlands, but much more in the region there. Is it not true that the judge had correctly stated that this is a terrorist organisation? My question is whether we are not making it too easy for the terrorists. I think we should go as far as possible. I have thought about this in a motion for a resolution, and I shall come back to that in the second term. We should also be able to take the measures we need to take. Mr. Chairman. Finally. Not insignificant, "last but not least," they say in English: what is the state of affairs regarding the trial based on genocide? There has undoubtedly been a mention of this this morning, but I would like to make this point this afternoon. Genocide-based trials are what should ultimately be systematically pursued. Because then it doesn't matter where the crime was committed, by whom the crime was committed, by someone of Dutch nationality or not, and wherever in the world that person is. If someone is being prosecuted for genocide, they can always do it. And that's a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u103	Thank you, Mrs Van Toorenburg. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u104	Thank you, Mr President. Our Minister of Justice and Security has begun to take the nationality of several jihadis, the IS terrorists. That is not an undisputed measure. The prosecution claims that the taking away of Dutch citizenship runs the risk of ISs avoiding their lawsuit, with the result that these terrorists can make other states unsafe. How is it that the prosecution is so directly opposed to its own Minister of Justice? Can the Minister reflect on that? What's his solution? What kind of policy do the rulers want to use to prevent non-Dutch citizens from becoming victims of Dutch IS-goers? What do they do with the violation of international human rights and children's rights treaties? What possibilities does the Minister see for the trial of Syrians in the region? Mr. Chairman. The fact is that the Kurds in Syria are no longer able to guard the camps. According to NCTV, about 60 Syrians have already returned to the Netherlands this summer. How's the minister gonna guarantee this will stop? How does the Minister deal with the devilish dilemma that not picking up the Syrians will not make them disappear, and that bringing them here does not guarantee that their ideas have changed even after a prison sentence? Mr. Chairman. It has to be said: in the social debate on the Syrians, it does not seem clear from time to time who the victims are. Those are not the so-called expatriates, with their unprecedented hatred, who have left to wage a holy war in Syria against all that is of value in our Western society. The real victims, for example from the Jezidi community, are terrified that IS fighters return to the Netherlands. These victims must be safe in the Netherlands; everyone must be safe in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Speaking of victims, the young children. These children must never suffer from the poor choices made by their parents, which have made them victims. They are faced with degrading atrocities and many of them now have to live in camps, under life-threatening conditions. NCTV considers it safer to pick up Dutch women and children from Syrian camps. Failure to do so brings with it more security risks, they say. Under what conditions can we bring the total of 90 children of 55 captured IS parents to safety? Because if the Netherlands does nothing, Syrian President Al-Assad will have the children in his hands, and that must not happen. Is there any way to disable the parents of ISIS from parental power, now that they are knowingly responsible for the suffering in which their children find themselves, I ask the Minister? Under what conditions can orphans be picked up, as Youth Services has advocated? ISIS children have previously been recalled through the mediation of diplomats and the Red Cross. I hope that decision will be made soon. The Dutch State does indeed have a duty of care towards these young children. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u105	Thank you, Mrs Van Kooten. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Those Dutch men and those Dutch women who joined ISIS, what kind of people are they? "Today I'm allowed to whip with my husband. Again a nice new experience!', So one of the women wrote. There are also reports of women who call on other women in the Netherlands to come enjoy the sweetness of the Islamic State and no longer have to live under "the dogs and the pigs." That's us, the dogs and the pigs. There are photos of decapitations of people with comments from Dutch IS women: "This moment, indescribable!', With a heart in it. They're not victims, Mr. Chairman. The men and women, the Dutch, people who were born here or grew up and who went there, are perpetrators. They chose that. They have had every opportunity in this country to confess their religion, to get an education, to find a home and to be part of this society, but they have made a choice to turn against us, we "dogs and pigs" that must be destroyed must be destroyed. Mr. Chairman. I was very impressed, like all the other spokesmen I have heard here so far, with the stories of the Jezidi women who fled to the Netherlands and are afraid that IS women will come back. They tell how these women helped to suppress, rape and sell other women as slaves. ISIS women have participated in terrible crimes. These Jezidi women are also asking for our solidarity. And what did these Jezidi women tell you, at least to the NIS? "The IS women were worse than the warriors," says a 21-year-old woman. "They beat the captured women and helped the warriors rape them." Says a woman who spent four months with ISIS. She was in the hands of IS men who raped her regularly. Her 10-year-old sister was sold as a slave. "There they lived in a house with IS women. My sister told me afterwards that the women of the warriors were the worst." Women were enslaved and children were trained to be warriors. They were given the choice between converting to Islam or death. That is the choice these IS women have made. At the moment, if I may believe the latest reports, there are about 15 men, 35 women and 90 children trapped in Northern Syria, or maybe some aren't trapped anymore. Most of the children were born there. Those IS women aren't naive. They're not tempted on false grounds to go there, but they're trained and hardened. They know exactly what ISIS wants and they still stand for it. The women have also remained to the very last. They've always stayed in the caliphate until the very last moment. They never left. According to the AIVD, IS also conducts a policy to get people into Europe and commit attacks here. We've seen that before with ISIS women returning. A woman in Indonesia, for example, a woman with two daughters, I believe, has blown herself up in a church and made a lot of victims. The Netherlands does not have a duty to bring back jihadists, at least the lawyer declared, because we have no jurisdiction there. But I do see three dilemmas that I would like to present to the three rulers. In my opinion, hardly anyone here wants these terrorists to come back, but the chances of them staying there are getting smaller and if they are somewhere in Europe, they can also attack anywhere in Europe. We almost all want them to be tried there, but there is no beginning of an appointment with a country or a tribunal or whatever. We all believe that countries should work together: countries in Europe with Turkey, with the United States, with Russia, with Syria and with Iraq. But in the meantime, they're getting away. Okay, they weren't tried, they weren't punished, but at least they were still in jail. At least we had eyes on it. But especially Turkish politics, the invasion of Syria and the reactions of us and other countries have led to the release of people. I have a question for the Foreign Minister. I believe that all countries have the same interests, namely to prevent attacks against their inhabitants. How is it that so many national interests prevail here and a policy is being pursued which threatens the people of all our countries? Finally, a word about the young children. It is terrible what is happening there, but neither can we break up families from the Netherlands in another country. If the parents demand that they come, they can't. Sometimes there's something we can do. I am very much in favour of not having a generic policy, but always looking closely at it. I'm gonna put it to the directors and wonder if they're gonna agree with me. I think we can do something for the kids on three conditions. The first condition is that they no longer have parents, the second condition is that they can get here safely and the third condition is that we can take them. About the last one: I think we're still a long way from being prepared to catch these kids when they get here. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u107	Thank you, Mr. Van Raak. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Hiddema on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u108	Mr. Chairman. I was the last one in line to get a lot of impressions. Overpowering is the thought that we are destined to be powerless. We all believe that the trial should take place in the region. How? You should know. It will come of it one day; hope will live. But will it ever come of it? We don't know. Under these circumstances, our party is only concerned with one thing. As long as we don't know which way to go with the trial, find out as an IS-goer: you won't get into the Netherlands. If mercy is to be shown when we are dealing with this battle of people, then now is the time for the rest-seeking citizen, who is not waiting at all to be involved in this entourage and to have those people around him. You don't have to. We have to keep them out of the door, coûte que coûte. Imagine the kids coming in. Programmes are already being developed: rehabilitation, deradicalisation, youth aid and whatnot. Such a child comes here and so does Mother. Look what's happening. The child comes to the shelter and mother is locked up. What an affront for an Islamic community. A couple of unbelievers divorce mother from children and lock up mother, and the child is left to his fate. That's a future hotbed in those communities for resentment, resentment and with a religious sauce surrounded, in question this sauce, violence. That's what breeds violence. We shouldn't have that here. And what's the social point? That they don't escape their trial. Then here, if necessary, they should not escape their trial and the victims should be entitled to compensation. Well, forget it. Probable justice, adequate redress for the victims on the basis of a well-considered judicial judgment with a complete file and an accurate understanding of the defendant's position of evidence? Forget it! Whatever the suspect in question did, thousands of miles away, we're not gonna find out here. Witnesses aren't here, so you can get statements from the stencil machine right now: I was just washing dishes, I had been to the household school on the spot, and I was just making coffee when the police came to pick me up. That's all you know, nada. It doesn't make any sense. It doesn't do any justice to victims. This is playing blind man. A bunch of judges, blind men in gowns, are called together there. On the basis of a half-baked file, they have to look at what the lady in question has been up to. You'll never find out. It's a charade. And then we have to deradicalize. You can do that here, too. That's an opportunity, too. Let them come here, because nowhere can we do it as well as in the Netherlands. The deradicalizing teams are already on hand wringing alert and the deskundologists are already stirring: there is a very good chance of deradicalisation. I would say: ask Mrs Halsema if you look at how that goes. What a tragedy! The deradicalisation expert turned out to be behind the back of the municipality to conduct a jihad propaganda campaign, so recruiting people for the jihad. Fake statements. The official in question who facilitated it shall be subject to criminal proceedings. The project has been terminated. Life-threatening naivety plays on this. From what I've read here, you've had a chill, if I may put it that way. This is Mrs Beatrice de Graaf in the Volkskrant of 29 October. She's highly educated. She sees very good opportunities for deradicalisation in the Netherlands of the Syrians in question. This is her text: "Of observations made by us and others, including interned terrorist suspects from previous waves, after 2004 and 2013, we can see that the arrested terrorist suspects suffer from cognitive dissonance." Well, they'll be surprised. They'd never thought about that before. "This phenomenon indicates the stress that people experience when their actions do not correspond to how they want to see themselves," she writes. And how do they want to see themselves? "As a righteous person who does the right thing." And then she continues to lament: "The gap with the original belief," she calls their idealism that, "whatever incomprehensible, will be enormous after return. In such cases, people exhibit cognitive flight behaviour." So that's about people sitting there, whose IQ doesn't last. That's a fact of public knowledge. They are not for idealism in the cradle, you might say, and often already in possession of a criminal past. Those people went to Syria. They're criminal lust killers. They saw their chance in that sadistic universe. Shooting, torturing, taunting, living it alone without the Dutch penal law putting a millimeter in your way. We must then facilitate them on the road to re-socialisation. Those guys aren't gonna be resocialized. That's bullshit. And the trial is an illusion. Fake. Let us not take any hope that this is at least a good additional effect of their coming here, because that is an illusion. By getting them here you grow resentment, resentment and, what I tell you, violence in the communities. It's no use to you. Ask the Minister, because he's in a little tight shoes, I understand. The D.A. said that if you withdraw nationality... We are in favour of the withdrawal of nationality. Isn't it a shame that these types are running around with a Dutch passport? Proud of being a Dutchman? Well, I don't think so. Take it where you can. As simple as that. That might keep them out of the door, because the wealth here can only be sniffed with a passport in hand. It seems to me that this could have a deterrent effect. Take it away!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u109	Do you look in that locker every once in a while? 'Cause you're gonna have to finish up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u110	Absolutely. I have to go home. Do I have to go now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u111	No, we're not done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u112	Oh, well. Anyway, the D.A.'s office says if we take the nationality away, we can't prosecute them in the Netherlands. Is that right? I'm sure we've been thinking about that from a government point of view. With my simple legal mind, I think: well, I think it can...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u113	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u114	... based on Article 6 of the Criminal Code and the SMO (International Crimes Act). Don't we have a principle of university that criminalizes terrorist activities of an now stateless Dutchman as soon as he shows up in the Netherlands? Another reason to stay out of here without a passport!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u115	Thank you, Mr. Hiddema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u116	This was him? Six minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u117	That was him, yeah. This was the first term of office. In principle, the ministers and the Secretary of State can answer right away, but I know you: if things get interrupted, it gets complicated. That's why I suggest we suspend dinner until 8:15.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u118	Let's move on to the debate. The Secretary of State is in the house. It's gonna come in any minute, but I'm giving the floor to the Foreign Minister. Yeah? Oh, just a second. I had resumed the sitting, but I suspended her for a few moments. Then we'll see how we deal with this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u119	Mr Sjoerdsma wishes to make an order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u120	Mr President, I do not know if I am doing it on behalf of everyone, but I actually think I am. Given what is happening at Schiphol Airport, we would like to give the cabinet the opportunity to focus on this. We would ask the Cabinet to answer the questions that have been asked in writing, preferably for the Foreign Affairs budget. But it seemed appropriate for us to give the cabinet some space to do what is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-7.u121	Is everyone okay with this? Yes. Then we have decided that the questions asked by you in the first period will be answered in writing. As you know, we still have a foreign affairs budget. If you are not satisfied with the answers, you can include your questions. The same applies to the Justice and Security budget. Yeah? I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Secretary of State for Justice and Security and the Minister for Justice and Security, who is not in the Chamber at the moment.
