ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the VAO Pgb. I welcome the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport and give the floor to Mr Kerstens on behalf of the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. I'm gonna read it to you. If there's any time left, I have a little final chord. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in mid-2018 the ICT Review Office (BIT) assessed the approach of pgb 2.0 with the conclusion: "If it proves impossible to take (our) opinions as a whole, we advise you to stop the current pgb 2.0 programme";]] [[noting that several measures have been taken following the publication of the BIT report;]] [[Whereas, in view of the robust content of that report and the far-reaching consequences if pgb 2.0 fails, a quickscan, leading to an assessment of these measures, is appropriate;]] [[noting that at the time the BIT originated from a parliamentary investigation initiated by the Chamber on ICT projects in the government and that the need for them to be set up was supported by Chambers;]] [[invites the Cabinet to have the BIT run a quick scan in the short term to assess whether its previous recommendations are being sufficiently followed and to take further steps with confidence as well as to inform the Chamber of the BIT's findings on the matter,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kerstens and Mr Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25657-308]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u3	Then there's the second motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the context of the (through) development of pgb 2.0, a pilot is taking place, in which health insurance company DSW and the municipality of Westland and pgb-holders residing there participate;]] [[noting that this pilot is not representative of most of the other municipalities in the Netherlands, thus not being able to draw any general conclusions for a so-called "rural roll-out";]] [[Whereas, before such a roll-out can be undertaken with confidence, more experience should be gained;]] [[invites the Cabinet to carry out a second pilot in the short term, in terms of design and size equivalent to the first, involving one or more other municipalities, health care offices and health insurers, as well as informing the Chamber about its progress and conclusions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kerstens and Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25657-309]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u4	Mr. Chairman. Very brief, closing. The Labour Party is in favour of the pgb and also hopes that pgb 2.0 will succeed. We consider these steps to be important if we are to continue to work on them with peace of mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u5	Thank you, Mr. Christmas. I now give the floor to Mrs Bergkamp on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u6	Thank you, Mr President. We have had a good general discussion, in which we have exchanged the various concerns. One of these concerns was about the structural management organisation and governance. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the development of the Pgb 2.0 system is based in a temporary management organisation until a structural solution has been devised;]] [[noting that the General Court has always been critical of the governance of the drawing system in the accountability investigations;]] [[Calls on the General Court to examine the governance of the structural management organisation of the Pgb 2.0 system, in particular the way in which the Minister fulfils his responsibilities, and to inform the Court of Auditors of its outcome so that it can be involved in the decision-making process,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bergkamp, Mr Hermans, Mr Slootweg and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25657-310]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u7	I have one more question for the Minister. We didn't talk about the privacy elements in the AO. I assume, looking at all the follow-up steps, that all kinds of privacy laws and regulations will also be looked at very carefully and that the solutions chosen will comply with them. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u8	Thank you, Mrs Bergkamp. I now give the floor to Mr Slootweg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have indeed had a good debate, but we have had a debate about systems. The alternative software system developed by DSW has a history. Under this process lies just a critical report from the BIT. ICT, government, everyone feels a bit like the ice is thin. That is why my group wants more comfort on those BIT recommendations. For the sake of comfort, we wholeheartedly endorse Mrs Hermans' motion and Mrs Bergkamp's motion, as she has just read out. Then I have one more question. An important point for the CDA is the role of the SVB in the financial domain. The drawing rights system is more or less called into question. Is it true that the Social Insurance Bank has a role as a monopolist in relation to that drawing rights system and would the Minister be prepared to investigate whether there could be other potential providers for that system? We would therefore like to know the advantages and disadvantages involved and the costs involved. I have a brief motion on the source code. The Minister states that a great deal is being made public, but we would like it to be a little more generous. I shall table this motion together with Mrs Bergkamp. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are major social and economic benefits to open source software developed by the government;]] [[Whereas Bureau Gartner, as a result of the Oosen Bridge motion, recommends that legal barriers should be removed in order to make available the source codes of the software developed by the government as open source software;]] [[noting that the developed software is not yet fully open source in both the financial domain and the care domain;]] [[invites the Minister to engage with Health Insurance companies Netherlands and DSW in order to fully disclose the source code of the pgb 2.0 system as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Slootweg and Mr Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25657-311]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u10	It is not a question of this motion but of my motion. Mr Slootweg indicated that the CDA was looking for more comfort when it came to developing pgb 2.0. Now you know as well as we all do the BIT report that is extremely critical. Mr Hijink and I propose in our motion that the BIT should take another look at what has happened to the BIT recommendations and whether it will provide the comfort that we are all looking for. How do you look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u11	I'm not interested in the place where it's invested. I also think that it is very difficult for BIT to check whether it has happened in the right way. Should it come out that BIT does it, I don't have a problem with that, but now to say "this has to be done by BIT" is not for me a law of Medes and Persians.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u12	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u13	Short follow-up question. In setting up the BIT, the Chamber has seen this as part of the BIT's task, so report and see what progress has been made. In our motion, we actually remind the Chamber of its own agreements; the Minister is willing to have a quick scan but not by BIT. You say it could be BIT, but what if we as a Chamber said it would be BIT?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u14	Mr Kerstens gives a very precise indication of the progress made. Other issues have also been raised in general consultation on the system. So in that sense, I just want to leave the room to see where it's best invested. I think it is quite clear that there is widespread unrest about what is being done with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u15	Thank you, Mr. Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u16	Mr. Chairman. If the public authorities take on large-scale ICT projects, they tend to get completely out of control. We have seen examples of this: ICT projects that cost tens and sometimes hundreds of millions and do not produce results. We must avoid that, I think, especially now that we are dealing with the new software that is being developed for the personal budget: pgb 2.0. Mr Kerstens and I have tabled a motion together to ask the BIT, the ICT testing office, to review that pgb 2.0 system again. And why did we do that? Because we got a destructive report from BIT last year. That actually chopped up the plan as it is now. And the Chamber itself, as Mr Kerstens rightly said, decided after a parliamentary inquiry: let us now use this BIT, this ICT testing office, to investigate these projects. Now that's done, and there's a destructive report. Now that the Minister himself says that everything has happened, that the ICT system is now in order and that we can move forward, what is more obvious than once again asking BIT: do you think the Minister is on the right track? The Minister himself says otherwise. He says, "We have to have this investigated by the Audit Service of the Empire." But that's really too easy. That's actually saying: I've had a bad grade, so I'm going to another school hoping I'll get a better grade there. So my question to the Minister is: what would be wrong with asking not only the Audit Service Empire, but also the BIT, again to do a new test on this system? Because we must prevent, and I am looking at colleagues, that we ourselves propose that we should better monitor ICT projects, while we look at another service after one destructive report from the BIT to do the same work. I don't think you're taking yourself seriously. So that's my message to colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u17	Clear, thank you very much. Finally, Mrs Hermans on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Much has already been said about the introduction of the new ICT system, and about the technology and the complexity surrounding it. This has also been discussed extensively in the AO. We all started this to make a more user-friendly system for all those people who use the pgb. And as Mr Hijink said, there is indeed a critical BIT report. The Minister responded to that. He has indicated: a lot has already happened in the meantime, and we are also going to take a lot of steps. And now to make sure that we are always looking at this user-friendly system in the future to see if we are really ready to take the next step in that ICT, I submit the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Audit Service is investigating whether there are safeguards in place to monitor the risks identified by the BIT and whether these contribute to a careful and controlled introduction of the pgb 2.0 system by involved chain parties;]] [[noting that this research will focus in particular on the safeguards built in by the temporary management organisation and guarantees for a careful introduction and thus the programme pgb 2.0;]] [[noting that the House of Representatives wishes to build in sufficient safeguards to enable the successful introduction of the pgb 2.0 system;]] [[calls on the Government to consider explicitly whether or not to use counter-expertise in each significant step, with the aim of ensuring a careful and controlled introduction of the Pgb 2.0 system, and to inform the Court in good time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hermans, Mr Bergkamp, Mr Slootweg and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25657-312]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u19	Mrs Hermans is asking for counterexpertise. I would say: if we ask the BIT to continue watching how the new pgb 2.0 develops, then you have exactly the extra key you really want? What would be the objection to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u20	The request in this motion is like another one. As the Minister wrote in his letter, the Audit Service is going to see exactly what the situation is like right now. After all, we had that critical advice from the BIT. On the other hand, the Minister says: things are much better now, because we have already followed a number of recommendations. We want it now to be checked whether this is indeed the case: are these safeguards built in? But from now on, a lot of further steps are going to be taken in the coming months for the further introduction of that pgb 2.0 system. Every step that is being taken in this respect, and we are also going to take further steps within the framework of ICT, we would like to see it watched on time and a counter-expertise made or that step can really be taken carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u21	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u22	But the question is, who's gonna do that? I'm not an ICT guy. I'm guessing you're not either. Actually, you're putting the minister under some kind of curatel. You want to be able to follow every step he takes. Fine, but I'd say let the experts at BIT watch. That makes a lot of sense, doesn't it? Or do I misunderstand? I don't understand where you want to hire that knowledge, that extra expertise. We do. It is called the ICT Test Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u23	Yeah, but I'm making a distinction between the second opinion, let me just call it that at the moment and the steps we're going to take next. I do not mention a party that should or should not do so. The BIT could be one of those parties. But that is different from the request I read in your motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u24	Thank you, Mrs Hermans. Five motions have been tabled. There is a need for a short five-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u25	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u26	Thank you, Mr President, for the motions tabled and for a single question. I will try to respond to that as best I can. The motion-Kerstens/Hijink in part No. 308 and the Hermans c.s. motion in piece No. 312 I would like to discuss in conjunction with each other. We have had a wide-ranging debate on the BIT opinion, which we should not repeat, otherwise the President will intervene. And rightly so. The debate was also about, in short, the difference of understanding that there is about the analysis that BIT has made. Not so much about the recommendation, because we have adopted it and we have implemented it. For this reason, as I have explained in general consultation, I do not think it would be useful for the BIT to take another look at it. At the same time, I also understand that your Chamber likes to have comfort about the follow-up steps and want to know whether they actually meet the recommendations that have been made. We are all here with the relatively recent past in mind. This means that we have to be super careful and take every step with great care. That is the reason for the ADR advice as I described it in the quickscan in the letter to your Chamber. Here comes the motion in part No. 308, which says: let the BIT look at it, as an addition to that quick scan. I do not think that would make any sense, but I understand that you would also like to see the BIT involved again. For this reason, I have not only commissioned the ADR to perform that quickscan, but I have also asked the ADR to understand itself with the BIT, in order to be able to make itself aware of the findings of that time. It is also about the recommendations made at the time and the background to them, so that the ADR can take them into account. The motion-Kerstens/Hijink in part No. 308 I advise in this form. Then I come to the motion on part No. 312, who says it's not just about that second opinion or quickscan now. In fact, we would like to have an external look at every significant step in the implementation process, if necessary. I have already explained that at the end of the first quarter I come up with an implementation plan, where we look at each other every time with all the chain partners and say: is it going to work? But then we really have to jump together. What this motion would add to it is that, if it is necessary, we should have it validated externally and have it checked externally if it is justified. Especially when it comes to matters that are difficult to oversee from the Chamber, but which are important, namely: is it good in terms of ICT design? That is why I can understand this motion. In fact, I would like to propose that this be reflected in the implementation plan. So the motion Hermans c.s. in piece No. 312 I give judgment Chamber
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u27	Mr. Kerstens... Have you dealt with all of Mr. Kerstens' motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u28	No, not yet. But the motion in part No. 308 and the motion in part No. 312 I have dealt with in conjunction. I thought that was a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u29	I don't want to discuss every motion extensively, so very briefly, Mr. Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u30	I don't want to, Mr. Chairman. The Minister just indicated that he asked the ADR, the Audit Service of the Empire, with BIT, the ICT Examination Office, to understand about that quickscan. Now, in his letter to the Chamber itself, the Minister states that the ADR, where very good people work in itself, are not the top specialists in the field of ICT, whereas it should be an ICT test. That's what the whole BIT story was about. So what exactly is the role that the Minister now seems to want to give the BIT as a step in that quick scan? Then someone who is not an expert in ICT testing will understand himself with the expert in ICT testing, who has previously delivered a merciless report.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u31	Even the BIT didn't do a software key in the end. Afterwards, we did so ourselves, because it was not in the BIT opinion. What I think we have to do is find external validated security, a guarantee, in the introduction of pgb 2.0. Have the recommendations made at the time, resulting from the BIT opinion, been properly shaped and incorporated into the implementation? What I have promised you is to draw up an implementation plan, which I will send to the Chamber at the end of this quarter, adding a quick scan from the ADR to assess whether the guarantees for responsible implementation have been given to a sufficient extent. To this end, the ADR naturally has to be understood by all kinds of chain parties, because they themselves have to give form and substance to these safeguards. But since you have mentioned this a number of times in general consultation, I thought it wise to ask at the same time... It is, of course, also about those recommendations made by BIT and then it is wise to understand itself with BIT. What were the backgrounds to these recommendations and what were the analyses that the BIT itself did to see if they were also given proper form and content?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u32	Then it goes...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u33	Shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u34	... to retrieve information from the BIT about the recommendation and not to somehow give the BIT a role in the appreciation of the steps that were taken afterwards? For clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u35	No, I don't think that's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u36	Mrs Hermans, you have a question about your motion? I understand your motion had been given a Chamber of Appeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u37	A very brief question in response to the Minister's remark that he will return to that in the implementation plan. May I interpret that in such a way that he will come back to when the steps that are about to be taken will be taken and when the consideration is made whether or not that counter-expertise is relevant to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u38	Yeah, sure. I have agreed in general consultation to draw up an implementation plan and to send to the Chamber, together with the implementation plan, the result of the quick scan of the ADR. In addition, I have promised a calculation of the costs, which you have also asked for, and that I will inform the Chamber periodically. Actually, I saw this motion as a follow-up. It is a specification of this. You will probably have to go through a number of hoops in that implementation plan and this motion asks for those hoops to be validated externally, if necessary and meaningful. That is to say: ask for external advice or ask for validation. Is this okay? Can we take this step together? I think that makes sense. For that reason, I have said that it is up to the Chamber to decide. Then the motion-Christmas/Ellemeet in part No. 309. They ask the Cabinet to arrange a second pilot in the short term. We have discussed it quite extensively and I must make it clear whether I understand it correctly. We have said that it would be good if we test if that software, which ran on the DSW environment until Christmas, does it somewhere else. Of course, we do so in the ICTU environment, in the temporary management organisation in the government environment. But the Chamber has also, I think, rightly said: let us also see if we can get that to work at another healthcare office. I said in the letter: "Yes, we are going to do that, swimming dry until 1 April and from mid-May we are going into the water." By dry-swimming, I mean you're looking at whether it's technically running on a healthcare office's ICT infrastructure. So, yeah, we're gonna do a second pilot. It has already been provided for and I will also write out exactly how we are going to do this in the implementation plan. Is that what you mean? If that is the case, I could say that the motion is actually superfluous and that I should discourage her. I can also say that if you would like to take a test on the design of that second pilot, I would ask you to hold the motion until the implementation plan has been discussed with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u39	There's a negotiation on what to do with the motion. Mr. Kerstens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u40	Mr President, when you table a motion together, it is as neat to look together as the Minister has indicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u41	Of course, we always welcome left-wing cooperation from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u42	In any case, it will end up in the Acts, and I am sure that will be useful in a debate with the Minister in due course. The intention of the motion is actually that we actually go swimming. The minister mentioned dry-swimming, but a pilot must be something. It's gotta be more than just dry-swimming. We also wonder a little about the timetable. Then you jump into the deep end and we would rather have tried twice before we jump into that deep. But perhaps we can look at the wording, so that both sides can get out of the way with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u43	Yes, but what are you doing with the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u44	We...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u45	Shall I explain? Because I think I'm a long way from what Mr Kerstens and Mrs Ellemeet want.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u46	Yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u47	What we do is this. We can only swim dry until 1 April, because we are in the middle of the transfer situation and it would be irresponsible to start an extra pilot halfway through the transfer situation. It's getting too messy. It must be done according to the steps of rest, cleanliness and regularity. That's what the deal was with the chain partners. What we agreed is that we're going to swim dry until the transfer is complete, and from then on we're going in the water and we're also going for a real pilot. That pilot, that follow-up pilot, is one of the steps in implementation, before it is rolled out wider. I think I'm getting close to what you want. You could say that we would like to see this first in the implementation plan. Let me assure you that I will write this correctly into the implementation plan, so that you can assess on that basis whether your motion is still up-to-date. Then you could continue your motion until the implementation plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u48	What are you going to do with the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u49	We're gonna hold her for a while, wait for the implementation plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u50	At the request of Mr Kerstens, I propose his motion (25657, No. 309). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u51	Then the motion-Bergkamp c.s. in piece No. 310, which calls on the General Court to examine the governance of the structural management organisation. We now work in a temporary management organisation. I can imagine you saying that the General Court of Auditors has expressed its opinion on this earlier, which we would like to have looked at once again at the structural design of this management situation. In a formal sense, I do not think I need to judge this motion, because it is a request to the General Court of Auditors and not to the Cabinet. At the same time, I could imagine that it would be very useful. Should I have given a judgment, that judgment would have been Chamber. As a result of this motion, if adopted, I would like to talk to the General Court about how this could be done in the process. Whether we develop a concept from within the department and submit it to the Court of Auditors or how the Court of Auditors sees it differently in the process. If this motion is adopted, I would like to discuss it with the General Court. Then the motion-Slootweg/Bergkamp in part No. 311, who asks to have a conversation with Zorgverzekerings Nederland and with DSW, with the aim of making the source code of pgb 2.0 fully public, as soon as possible. It's complicated. I'm gonna have to discourage that motion. In terms of intent, I'll do exactly as you ask. We intend to make public as much as possible once pgb 2.0 has been sufficiently developed, namely those parts that I can and may make public. This is possible once the following actions have been taken. One, follow-up of recommendations from the quality test of the software and the legal test by the country's attorney. Two, the code has been adapted to the requirements for the national roll-out and there are no obstacles from the point of view of privacy. I refer to Mrs Bergkamp's question and that of fraud. And three, the code no longer contains any business sensitive information from DSW. These are the further developments that need to take place first on the current code. As soon as possible is not until the end of this year. In addition, the software has been chosen to use a number of standard components from suppliers such as Oracle. I can't just make that public, because it's not the property of the Empire, even after the transfer. That remains the property of Oracle. So I can't disclose that part of the source code. In addition, a part is also simply owned by DSW. I can't make that public either. Some parts are already open source, so of course they are already public. This makes it quite clear in the letter that it is the intention to make public as much as possible as quickly as possible. But "as much as possible and as soon as possible public" still means that a number of parts simply cannot be made public, because that is contrary to property law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u52	I now understand the Minister a lot better than what is in the letter, especially with regard to those three first cases, the legal test or the fraud. I don't think that's the point either. But when I read the Minister's letter, I see that it actually says: I have been kept to a number of agreements. So that's the deal with Oracle? "As much as possible" and "as soon as possible" I think we both want to reach. But wouldn't we agree on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u53	As much as possible and as soon as possible are starting points that I can do something with. But the agreements that affect, for example, ownership or copyright, I simply cannot interfere with, as you will understand. I shouldn't want to. In addition, I have some further development steps to take before we can actually go public. However, I note from your response that the letter did not provide sufficient clarity on this point. You will not believe it, but at first there was a much more extensive and much more technical version. That is what I thought: that goes very deeply into technology; perhaps we should keep it a little bit on the main lines. But I see with you a great eagerness to know exactly. That is why I would like to propose that I write a more comprehensive letter on what we can actually make public and what really needs to be developed. Until then, I would actually like to ask you to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u54	In any case, I think that is a very important gesture, because I did not understand a number of elements. In my view, that answers the question I wished to raise in my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u55	You have the time until...? Hold on? I see that Mr Slootweg confirms that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u56	Yes, please hold.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u57	At the request of Mr Slootweg, I propose his motion (25657, No. 311). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u58	Then there are two more questions. The first is that of Mrs Bergkamp, who asked whether the privacy aspects were taken into account. Oh, yeah. This has partly to do with the further development of the software. Of course, we have the privacy aspects high on the agenda for the further development of the software. Sure. Finally, there was Mr Slootweg's question as to whether I would be prepared to look at another operator at the moment. I saw that suggestion made in Per Recht's letter. I have to say, I find that complicated. When it comes to the question of whether the Social Insurance Bank has a monopoly in this matter, the answer is: yes, that is what the legislator has determined. Similarly, other implementing bodies have a monopoly position: DUO when it comes to study funding, or the CAK; for example, we have more of that type of implementing organisations which do indeed have a monopoly position. There's a reason. We know it's an error-prone execution process. So if you want that to happen properly, you will have to choose one performer, and not give the forces of the market a free hand in it. This has recently been confirmed by the ACM. The ACM reported to an implementing party who considered that it should also be able to claim the role of the SVB in this regard. The ACM has said: no, it is not; it is not for nothing provided by the legislator that this task has been invested in the Social Insurance Bank. Could the legislator also decide otherwise in the future? In the technical sense, that could be possible, but I would not be in favour of that, because I actually think, also from order, peace and regularity, that we should do everything we can to ensure that we develop the care domain and the financial domain, which now have to develop two sides of pgb 2.0 in peace. It would be an incredible waste of time if we allowed uncertainty to exist or if the parties that are now operating in it are still in the future. The execution is just stable. To be honest, I do not see any reason to want another party to do so. I really wouldn't want to go on that road. As far as I'm concerned, we're just gonna do it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u59	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this VAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-6.u60	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I thank the Minister and suspend the sitting until 2.30 p.m.
