ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u1	We will continue with the debate on a possible ban on pulse fishing. We have come to the answers of the Minister of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank Members for their input into this debate. Although there are many different views on what has happened and how it should be done in the future, I have the impression that we are all having a debate here in the interests of fisheries. I have heard the contributions of all of you very well. I also heard your expressions of concern, which I understand very well. I have this concern myself; the concern about what a ban on pulse fishing means for our own cutters, for our own fishermen, for their families, for the people who are working on this every day. I also think it is nice to see that this concern is also Chamber-wide, although there is also a very different view of the possibilities, which we can do now. I also note that some of your Members are already taking part in the European compromise we are dealing with. It is also good to discuss with each other what we need to do now and what the future looks like. But at the same time we are also in a somewhat complex debate here, because on the one hand the competition is still going on. The decision-making process has not yet been completed. That also limits, as I say at the same time, my ability to go into this very extensively or to make far-reaching statements or draw conclusions about what exactly is going on. That also restricts my ability to give the full clarity, because it is not yet available on parts. I hope you understand that, too. This is not least because we are currently trying to see what we can do for the fishermen. And anything I do here about absolute statements or interpretations can hurt that too. That is the context in which I must have this debate. Secondly, while that game is still going on, we are already giving a look back. I understand. I understand that Members are asking: what happened and how did it go? I have sent a timeline to your Chamber, indicating how a number of things have gone. But we are working on the competition and we are looking back, but we should also look again at the future, at the near future and also at the future, and at what it means for fisheries and, for example, the role of innovation in it. What's the clarity about? In my letter I said a few things about this, but I shall repeat it here. Last Wednesday, a political agreement was reached at the last trilogue meeting on the new technical measures regulation. For the record, the trilogue includes the Presidency, Parliament and the Commission. I've been told I'm one of them myself, but I'm not. I'm not at the trilogue. I have already said in several places, but also in the Chamber during Question Time, that I am very disappointed in the result, because there seems to be an end to an innovative technique which, as we see in the interim results of the ICES report, is better for the environment and soil. I am also disappointed because fishermen have done so on the full assumption that they were doing the right thing. We also wanted a greener fleet, a more environmentally friendly fleet that is better for the soil and better in terms of landing obligations and by-catches. They invested in that trust. We were able to show that the interim results of the report seemed hopeful, but that was not, in the end, decisive in the vote in the trialogue. I also think that this is a worrying development. I think facts should always help determine what happens and what doesn't. That's another discussion we can have. I sent you a letter last Tuesday expressing my appreciation of the political agreement, as far as I was aware at that time. I have indicated that it is clear that there will be a transition period, that there will be a ban and that there will still be some scope for research. These are the main points of the agreement. But especially when it comes to the transitional period, what it means for which licence and the way in which we have to deal with it, I really do want and need to study the text carefully, precisely because it matters very much to the individual fisherman. That individual fisherman doesn't have much use for speculation. I must state very carefully what is possible and what is not possible and what the legal options are for their implementation. I understand very well that the fishermen are just waiting for that clarity, because it determines very much what their future looks like and how quickly they have to change things or not. As I said, I cannot give any more clarity at this time. Speculation about the possible interpretations and also the possible space in the text could really be counterproductive. We must also realise that the decision-making process is not yet over. A number of further steps need to be taken. We've had the trilogue now. There will be a vote in the European Parliament. If the European Parliament agrees to the text that is now before us, then the Council must also agree. We expect the European Parliament to vote in March. If it is adopted, it will probably be in the Council at the beginning of April. Moreover, the European Parliament can also amend a text. Those are all the circumstances that mean that I cannot now give the clarity that I really understand very well that everyone wants it to be. I do notice, also from the debate we are having now, that I think it is good to mark the fact that, apart from the Animal Party, there is still room for conviction that pulse is a good method of fishing. I also think that this is important to note that this is not something on which there is a great deal of uncertainty or disagreement at the moment, but that we do think that pulse fishing has a future. Perhaps Mrs Bromet, who is now coming forward, does not recognize herself in this, but I thought I would make that out of her words. If it isn't, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u3	A little nuance. GroenLinks attaches great importance to scientific research. We would like to wait and see. The omens are favourable, but we want to suspend our final judgment until the investigation is completed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u4	I would have interpreted it a little faster. I thought Mrs Bromet herself mentioned a number of advantages which she thought were very good about this way of fishing. Mr. Chairman. I have received some specific questions from your Chamber about the current situation. I'm going to answer it with a timeline: a look back, the present and the future. We've been asked to look back. How did it happen? We have been asked about the present: how should we interpret things? What else can we do? In addition, a look at the future has been asked. I will also address the questions about the innovation money. The look-back. A number of Members, including Mr Geurts, asked me how I looked back at how things were going. He referred to a sentence in the coalition agreement and asked me to reflect on what happened. He also asked what else is possible, but I will deal with it in the next block. If we look back generically, we can see that around 2009, 2010 the pulse trawl fisheries became more adherents as a method. The method became more popular. There has been fishing with one cutter for a while in that way to see how it went. During that period more attention was paid not only to fishermen, but also to your Chamber. It was recognised that pulse trawling could actually lead to a sort of win-win situation. On the one hand, it led to lower fuel costs at a time when fuel prices were high and prices were low. That was twice as heavy for the fishermen. Less fuel consumption also reduced CO emissions. We saw there was less ground-moving. All things that were positive. During that period, I also showed that in the timeline, at some point, it was asked from your Chamber whether it was possible to see if some more permits could be issued. Around 2009 and 2010 it started, but in 2011 it really came up here in the Chamber: isn't it possible to make extra efforts here to make sure that we get on with it? This led to the govern ments at that time going to Europe to see what was possible there. In the timeline I have shown where that has led, to what licensing at what time. It all came from a belief that this was a good method, which was also socio-economically attractive to our fishermen. A number of members asked: how has sentiment changed? What happened during that period? That's a question I'm asking myself, of course. When I had just become a ruler over a year ago, there was a vote on 25 November on whether there was still a vote to be taken in Parliament on the passage on technical measures. Then we already saw that another sentiment began to emerge around the pulse fishing. This was fully reflected in the vote in the European Parliament more than a year ago in which a total ban on pulse trawling was advocated. Of course I thought during that period: what went wrong here? That was at a time when I was allowed to use the imagery of the boat for a while. I was just trying to figure out how to fix things. Then you're not just going to think about what you should have done differently, although of course you also think about it. Let me say that for the future I will have to take a number of things with me to look after myself when these issues arise again. First of all, this was a technique that was especially good for Dutch fishermen, because it is for solefish and flatfish. We are the largest in Europe fishing with this method. We were really working for our own fishermen and therefore did not have a much bigger debate, did not make a much greater effort to see if that could be used across Europe. That is the lesson for me: if we see that there are innovative methods, I will come back to the future, then we must really pay attention to not doing so alone. We shouldn't settle it for ourselves first, but it needs to be much wider. By the way, at some point this broader discussion has been held in Europe, but some of your members pointed out that in 2015 there was a report from the WUR, which indicated: it is very Dutch what we are doing now, that may have a risk. We started doing broader research back then. We have also offered within Europe: join in, look in. We also held a number of meetings on this subject. For me, the lesson is: do that right from the start, don't do that at the moment we are already working on all kinds of routes in which those questions arise. One point that was also mentioned in the WUR report and which we should also pay attention to is the position of small-scale fisheries. We have underestimated, I think, in the whole of the debate on pulse trawling what might be the sentiments of small-scale fishing. This has had some effect, particularly in a number of countries. In France, but also in the Netherlands, there are fishermen who still liked it. We have to take this kind of factor into account, and I call it more the socio-economic factors, which are absolutely essential in everything we are going to do in the future about fisheries, about innovations and about techniques. What impact do they have on other industries and so on? The question was also: did you see the sentiment turn? However, it was particularly important for a number of members to point out that the Commission's original proposal included a full release of pulse trawl fisheries in 2016. In other words, it was really a collective idea, a collective feeling, so not only from the Netherlands. Otherwise, it really would not have ended up in the Commission's text... that this is a future that we should seize with both hands. In that sense, the change came at some point after 2016. One of the Members also asked when and how the Commission turned into this. That was, of course, also on the basis of emotions, feelings and beliefs of MEPs in particular. Parliament in particular has put a big line through it. That was also the situation I started with. I was literally at zero. At the time we started, at least that I started in Europe, the European Parliament's statement was there. We were just 3-0 behind. Everything you win then is still a step forward, but of course it is still a black day for the fishermen that this method will be banned in the plans that are now under way. Let me put it this way. I found the situation that I was 3-0 behind and I had to go forward. Looking back, a number of things have been done, but I think that if we had to go over it now, we would have taken these aspects more into account in what we have just discussed. Mrs. Dik-Faber asked for the turn. This was mainly because the European Parliament itself made a clear statement. With the proposal now before us, however, research can still be carried out, so they indicate that it is still something that we need to look at how things are going to turn out. But the image is completely tilted. Mrs Bromet asked: have major strategic mistakes been made? I think I have already indicated some of the lessons we should take into account if we are to do this in the future. She also mentioned cultural differences in Europe. I do not know whether this is necessarily a cultural difference in Europe. It is more about the aspects I mentioned: the type of fishing, the flatfish tongue and the position of the more small-scale fisheries. These aspects have also been taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u5	The Minister is now talking about the strategy followed by the Netherlands. I would like to ask a question about this, because I have the impression that the Minister is mainly sweeping her own street. The minister says we were actually right about the pulse, only we weren't right. Then there will be a hymn on the pulse. But that's all a little out of date, isn't it? What matters is that the Netherlands has overplayed its hand. The decision to delete pulse fishing is based on the fact that the Netherlands has granted exemptions under false pretenses. 84 exemptions have been granted for research vessels, but no research has been carried out on most ships. I have a table on that. In 2016, only 8 out of 84 ships were research ships, but they all had an exemption for research. Even the chief researcher, Rijnsdorp........................................................................................................................................................................................... For most scientific questions, you don't need so many ships at all." That's a literal quote. I think that's the point. The Netherlands has overplayed its hand and granted too many exemptions. Brussels has said 'this is not the way it should be' and that is why it has crossed a line. It is not about whether or not pulse fishing is environmentally friendly, climate-friendly, animal-friendly or what. The point is that these exemptions were granted under false pretences.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u6	Mr. Chairman. I'm just gonna get a little technical on this. The first group is below 5%. That group is still in the Commission's proposal. That's not the group where the investigation had to take place, but they do participate in the investigation, Mr. Wassenberg. In the second group, the investigation had indeed to begin. The third group concerned the landing obligation. That was a larger group. You could say: should we have started the investigation earlier? Yes, I do. We could have started that sooner. But we have all granted those permits. The first group was allowed anyway and they are still allowed. That's still part of the law. That doesn't have anything to do with research, even though we do. The second and the third groups were related to research, where the tempo could have been a bit higher. Yeah, I bet you do. But it is well known that we have given those permits for that investigation. So it's not like we all did things that weren't known or illegal. We have been open about the permits we have issued. We have also reported this to the Commission. You can now find out all kinds of things about how many ships you need or don't need for research, but that's a bit of looking back. The image that we have done is illegal is something special to me. In my view, like my predecessors, I have always been quite open to the Chamber and the Commission about how many ships were sailing with pulse permits.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u7	I haven't used the term illegal today. It's the first time I've mentioned that word. I said "under false pretenses." That's something else. What I did say, though, is that there were almost unlimited licences, exemptions, I exaggerate. 21 became 42 and 42 became 84 in a short period of time, at a point where even chief researcher Rijnsdorp says: yes, but I don't need that many ships. The Minister says that we could have started the investigation a little earlier. That's what VisNed and the investigator say. He says there was far too little money given and we started way too late. Everyone agrees on that. What I am particularly concerned about now is that apparently, without the need for more research, there was no demand for more research and without the researchers saying they needed more ships, exemptions were granted. And why were these exemptions granted? So that people could fish with the forbidden technique. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u8	You're talking about a forbidden technique. I think so... that's what I'm throwing. It's not a forbidden technique. I repeat that what has been done has been done openly. It was known that permits were applied for. In fact, it was your room itself that insisted on applying for more permits for that other group. The Party for Animals didn't do that, I know that. That's what I said right at the beginning. But that was the situation back then. There was great confidence in the technique and it was also indicated that it was both better for the fisherman and better for the environment. Two worlds came together all the way. They also asked to ensure that as many ships as possible could participate. Then you can now, afterwards, think that we should not have done that at that time, but reasoning afterwards is always very easy. I only note that at that time there was no one who said: this is going completely in the wrong direction. It was really a technique that was very forward-looking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u9	The question is not so much to what extent the technique was forward-looking, but to what extent the Netherlands could have expected people to find that we did not comply with the rules. I have a question about that. We had the 5% exemption position and at some point there was a negotiation or it could be extended to 10%. Then it gets a little shady for me. Is it true that at some point the Netherlands has continued to issue permits and that Brussels has always indicated that another permit had been issued? Has the Netherlands never actually heard about it and has the Netherlands more or less assumed that it would be okay? Is that a reasonable summary of the process?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u10	Indeed, Europe has always been informed of the licences issued.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u11	I think it is rather naive of the Netherlands to think: we sent it to Brussels and never heard anything, so it must be good. When I deal with the Tax Administration like this I give up my extra income but don't pay more, but well, I give up, so they know about it I shouldn't be surprised if I get a post-tax after three years. I mean, it's also responsible to see if what we're doing is still within the rules. Did the Netherlands make a mistake there, just when you are looking objectively?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u12	Then I'll turn it back. I mentioned just now that it was the European Commission that included in the legislative proposal in 2016 that pulse kor would be fully authorised as a method.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u13	It is not for nothing that I said in my speech that the European Commission is also responsible for this and, even more importantly, that the European Commission has suffered a loss of face here too. In fact, she went too far, with the proposal and with statements and by encouraging the Netherlands in the beginning and later, when the Netherlands widely used permits, not to correct. So it is certainly not the case that I want to exonerate the European Commission. But if there is a limited exception in the sense of up to 10% permits and the Netherlands goes there without responding from Brussels, you can say: Brussels should have responded. But you can also say: the Netherlands should have known for itself that there was a border and that it crossed it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u14	What then is Brussels in this case? Brussels is for us the Commission. If we do business, we must report it to the Commission. And that's what we do. I have just said in my introduction: the lesson for me is that other Member States must be included in the business you are doing. But informing Brussels, where Brussels is the Commission for us, is what we have done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u15	Mr. Futselaar, it's tricky. You have too much time, but it is also for the Minister, not to reflect on what Brussels is, but simply to answer the questions that have been asked. You may ask them one more time and I shall give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u16	I take the view that it is not enough, in this case, for the European Commission to say that it is doing so to ensure that the rules are complied with. The fact that no one tells you that what you're doing isn't right doesn't automatically mean that it's right what you're doing. I understand that other Member States have started to respond at some point. Well, that's my conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u17	I said in the introduction that my lesson is that we need to take other Member States better and involve them when we are working on these innovations. I've admitted it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u18	You're gonna have to do it with that. Mr. Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u19	When the French President Macron got involved, about a year ago, it was no longer about reports and investigations, but about high-level politicians. It was then fought at the level of Heads of Government. I remember that there was almost a fishing war with ships attacking each other, angry French fishermen. If French people are angry, we'll know. At the time Macron, after dinner with Rutte, said it shouldn't be allowed, then the alarm bells should have ringed. We had an AO with each other back then. That's what I told you. Then there will be other forces in Europe. It is no longer about a report or a scientific equal, but about Heads of Government who are themselves sticking their necks out. There's something you have to counter. The Minister didn't do that, despite my warnings.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u20	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u21	Can the Minister look back on this and say: this was indeed wrong; if I had just pulled Prime Minister Rutte on his jacket to say that he needed to discuss it with Macron for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u22	When Mr Macron made that statement, the European Parliament had already indicated that it wanted a ban on pulse fishing. It's not like we didn't know back then that we were 3-0 behind. From about the moment I got the file on my plate, I had to go from zero to something more, so to speak. You heard the Prime Minister say at the press conference last Friday that there were discussions within the cabinet at several levels and that contacts have been made. But he also indicated that you can't always tell up to the point and the comma where the contact has been and with whom. I'll share that with him. If you do that, next time it'll be a little more complicated to get that person to talk to you. Sometimes you wish everything you're doing is very visible. The Prime Minister was clear about this at the press conference last Friday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u23	Above all, I hear the Prime Minister say that Europe must be stronger and do more power play. But he doesn't stand up for the Netherlands. He's hardly actually been involved in this file, if that's how I understand it. Macron's been meddling in this file for over a year after he came out of dinner with Rutte. Doesn't it make sense for you to say that you're making it as Prime Minister Chefsache, as the Germans say so beautifully? That is the practice in Europe. If you do not, you will also send a signal to Europe. If the French turn on Macron and Macron brings this out and the Netherlands doesn't put it together by engaging Rutte and coming into action immediately, the Netherlands is actually already winning. Then you've already lost. Can the Minister at least look back and say that we could have done better?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u24	Mr Madlener assumes that this is how it happened. I can say, however, that we have discussed this in the Cabinet quite directly, and more often, when the ban had been advocated and ratified in the European Parliament, or no. It has not yet been ratified, because it has yet to be ratified, but it has been pronounced. This was also discussed in the cabinet in the interim. It's not like we don't talk about that. But who does what at what point and who is in conversation, that is precisely not wise for future situations. I would also like to point out to Mr Madlener that we are still in the middle of a process to see how we are going to do the best for fishermen here. That's what I'm doing. That's what drives me. And that's why I'm really working on this file day and night. I do so with love, Mr Madlener, also because I think the fishermen are entitled to it. In order for the result to be as good as possible in a situation that is not good, I must admit that I have to operate with caution. I can then speak for the stage very big words and say very toughly: he should have done this, he should have done that, he should have had more conversations, or he should have been chief. The only thing I am doing is to ensure that fishermen will soon have maximum opportunities to do something in this difficult situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u25	Does the Minister also want to speak through the chairman? Mr. Madlener, I'm gonna give you one more chance, but from now on, I'd like to do all the interruptions in two. We're just at the look-back and we still have several things to go. You can make a brief addition, but then I would like to move on to the next interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u26	The Minister falls into sweet words, "I'm doing my best for the fishermen," but she fails. The Netherlands has made it. I think the Minister is a very sweet lady, but this is a tough business in Europe. Actually, I'd like to know what the Prime Minister did. I would like to ask for a factual account and what the Prime Minister has meant in this regard. I'd like to see that fact story. We're sitting here looking back. Clearly, things have gone wrong. The Minister is empty-handed. Fishermen go to hell. We have a right to know exactly what went wrong. Then what are these lessons for the future? That is why we need to know exactly what the Prime Minister has done in this dossier.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u27	I sent a story of fact to the letter. I hear Mr Madlener talking about "dear lady" or "girl." He does that all the time. I notice that like a tough guy with his arms on top of each other, he's just yelling from the sidelines and doing nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u28	I shall now give the floor to Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u29	In addition to what is being said here, I would also like to see the facts that Mr Madlener is asking for. The letter contained a timeline, but no factual account. So it's not true that we've had that. In addition, it will probably show that the Prime Minister has hardly interfered in this. That is what you are actually saying here. You say you've been hard on this and you're doing your best for the fishermen. Does the Minister think that this makes no difference in European power relations? Does she think it makes no difference whether a trade minister, a substantive minister, or a head of government is interfering? Does she think so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u30	Here again, the assumption is that this did not happen. What the Prime Minister indicated last Friday is that several people spoke about this in the cabinet. He didn't indicate at what time exactly who was talking to. I'm not going to. I think Mr Baudet knows something about negotiation and what happens when you do all that. That is true even in this situation, where I am still working to ensure that we can best place the situation for our own fishermen. If I were to do all that and write down exactly who I spoke to in any way and what other members of the cabinet have done, then I can predict one thing. That's because we can't have those conversations with those people after that. They will say: then we will immediately arrive in the House of Representatives via a factual account. That doesn't increase the effectiveness of those kinds of trajectories.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u31	Okay. So the Minister says that we should just take her on her blue eyes when she says that there would have been tough negotiations for the pulse fishermen. Let me get this straight. If that's the case, it's actually more of a license of inability. Then if you can get this done, you really can't do it at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u32	That, I believe, is a qualification from Mr Baudet. I'm not going to go into that for the rest of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u33	So you say that behind the scenes this has been negotiated very hard. Correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u34	I know that. I know what I've done myself. By the way, it's not just me who did that. There have been intensive discussions with the Commission and a number of Member States, and I myself have also spoken with Members of this House.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u35	The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u36	I need to get back to where I left off: the look-back. Mr Moorlag asked me if I have been strong enough. He also wanted a kind of timeline, indicating what was done by who. What I did like in the debate just now is that a number of Members opened up in the sense of: we also need to learn from this, so a kind of self-reflection. I think that is powerful, because that is also important to do. I note, however, that one member of a group is doing a little better than the other. I am therefore a little surprised by Mr Moorlag's statement. If he picks up the timeline and sees what has happened, by whom and in any cabinet, he might also be able to use some reflection on it himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u37	I think that was an invitation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u38	I used that reflection myself. I also said that being right is not right. The PvdA has always been committed to the conservation and roll-out of pulse fishing. What matters is that we, as Chambers, also have a controlling role to play, even in the same way as previous speakers. I have to say that it was good in the European Parliament's Fisheries Committee at the end of 2017. That committee has been told to go this way. The European Commission was also on that line. Then there will be a short, intensive lobby, which was extremely successful, but not well-founded. A legitimate question in this Chamber if we want to take our controlling role seriously at least is what was subsequently done by this Minister and the Prime Minister. I am convinced of the Minister's sympathy and of her intention, but in the agricultural sector it is sometimes said that it is not a question of chicken cackling, but of laying eggs. You just have to see that the end result is extremely unsatisfactory for fishermen. Does the Minister share that view?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u39	When I first took office, there was a very quick European Parliament ruling on a total ban. That's where I'm from. Then you can say that it is extremely unsatisfactory, but that was it at the time. We had to come all the way back from that disadvantage. You're gonna have to see what's left to pull in. Once again, if one asks whether I am satisfied with what has happened, then the answer is 'no'. I wish I hadn't had that whole ban. But I do note that that is the situation where we come from. From there, we had to save what was to be saved. Mr Moorlag says there was nothing going on until the end of 2017. I believe that in May 2017 someone referred to this as well as Mr Van Dam's secretary of state. The Chamber was there, too. I just indicated that you need to reflect on how to do things differently and better. I think I should do that myself, but I think it's in place for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u40	There is that willingness. I can also understand why the Minister said that the vote was 3-0 behind her. But how many goals has she made herself after that time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u41	You'll be able to judge for yourself in a moment, if everything is there. We're in transition now. I think it is very important that we can continue with the investigation. Many fishermen will say: what good is that going to do me right now? But let it be clear that, however limited, we can partly use that time again to look to the future. How, for example, can we help fishermen with new methods and techniques and help them deal with them? But it's disappointing, I share that. Mr Weverling and other members had some questions about the mediator. Let me just say this first. If someone who has no political function and does not have to do anything for anyone or anything else says "if I can do anything, then I am prepared to do so," then I have nothing but extreme respect for it. When I hear how some people talk about people who do, I find that really embarrassing. Let me also remind you that your own Chamber was the one who asked for that mediator. It is therefore not the case that we have said that this should be done. I can remember very well the debate, the general discussion, in which it was discussed. At that time, we also indicated quite quickly that if we could find someone to do so, that really should be quiet diplomacy. Because also for these kinds of processes: if you're going to do all that out in the open, in public, then you're sure nothing is going to happen at all. Mr Weverling wants to know exactly what happened to whom at what time. I indicated in the letter and recently in your Chamber that the discussion was that there had to be a counterpart for the mediator with whom he could enter into these talks. I myself have spoken on a number of occasions about this with the French Minister for Agriculture at the time. Eventually, they didn't deliver a counterpart with which that conversation could be conducted. Then you can find all sorts of things, but then that's the reality you have to deal with. If Mr Weverling asks if he can go into more and more detail with all those around him, then I say no, because that does not contribute to the continuation of such conversations, but also because I find it really reprehensible when we start calling for all kinds of things about someone who is unimportant to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u42	Mr. Madlener. You want to speak first, Mr Weverling? Then so be it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u43	I wasn't aware that it was irrelevant. I don't think you ever reported that to the Chamber either. Of course, that's very much appreciated. But this is an advocate who, on your behalf, on behalf of the cabinet, is on the road. We've asked many times what happened. Then the minister said, "We shouldn't disturb a brooding chicken." Then we won't talk about it. If we then ask afterwards, if it is likely to go wrong, where it went wrong, what the advocate has done, without mentioning his name and name, who he has spoken and whether you can explain a little more than those four rules on my written questions, then I do not think that is a very unjust question. So my questions remain. I invite you to answer them, because I believe he stands there on your behalf, on behalf of the government, to plead for our pulse fishermen. That it's irrelevant, I appreciate that, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u44	This is really... It is precisely because of this kind of statement that I suspect that if this Chamber is going to ask again if anyone would want to do quiet diplomacy for the Netherlands, there really is no one left to be found. I really wonder what Mr Weverling is trying to achieve with this. He's not there as the advocate. He was mentioned as a mediator, and he was there to get into the conversation at all. Then Mr Weverling cannot suddenly call someone to account who is doing this disinterestingly for our country at the request of your Chamber? I'm really surprised. I also do not understand what Mr Weverling is trying to achieve.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u45	Mr Weverling is going to tell us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u46	I'm actually a little flabbergasted. Mrs. Schouten, excuse me, the Minister is going to look very pathetic.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u47	Well, pathetic... I'm getting a little tired of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u48	I'm also sorry that it doesn't work out in the end. In my view, at the request of the Chamber, you appointed an advocate. Of course, it's too bad it doesn't work out, but then we can talk to you about where it went wrong. But apparently that's not allowed because it's irrelevant. It may also be that my interpretation is wrong, but I had the impression that we had appointed a formal, official mediator. But that's a wrong interpretation of me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u49	I note that the Minister takes offense at certain qualifications. I can understand that, too. I think the question is: we couldn't check in advance and we want to talk about it afterwards. On behalf of Mr Weverling, I think it would be a good idea for the Minister to reflect on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u50	I never reported to the Chamber that there was a formal appointment or anything like that of someone in such a role. That's also part of the job: you can't do that at a time when there's some sort of silent diplomacy. I have not formally appointed someone in a particular role and with a particular task to get there. Mr Weverling could have known that too, because I never sent the Chamber anything about that either. After the request of the Chamber or a mediator could be appointed, I immediately said that I would see what I could do, but that, when that happens, it always happens under the radar. Otherwise there will be no effect, nothing will ever come of it, or no one will ever make themselves available for it, because that is, of course, very risky. I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u51	Mr Weverling's second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u52	Well, then I just misinterpreted it. I thought it was all something official, but apparently it was a "under the radar" attempt. So I apologize for the misinterpretation of my side.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u53	Then I'm gonna try again. Nothing to the detriment of Mr Veerman; as I know, no one has said ugly things about the gentleman in this debate either. It was indeed at the request of the Chamber that this happened. I remember that very well. I wasn't excited about it. I thought Rutte should get to work and not a silent diplomat. Anyway, it was indeed at the request of the Chamber. The Minister is absolutely right, but I would like to criticize her for not hearing anything for nine months. Surely it can't be that the silent diplomat, Mr. Veerman, can't find an interlocutor for nine months and that the minister is waiting? After a few months, you know it's not gonna work out, Minister, and I'll report to you? When did the Minister know that Mr Veerman could not find an interlocutor? And couldn't she have informed the Chamber right away and taken other steps?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u54	I have just indicated that I myself have spoken a number of times with the then Minister for Agriculture of the French people to see what was going on with this. That was over a longer period of time; that was not the same after a week. At least I've talked to him about it before, a little later and again at a much later time to see what we could do there. So that was still going on. It was not so that at one point it is clear that it does not succeed, does not stop or whatever. But I would also like to stress that, of course, it was not the case that the mediator was the only one at work. I was also constantly busy, and also other members of the cabinet in their ways. So it was all side by side. The exact date on which no person could really be found, to which Mr Madlener is asking, I do not know by heart, but a period has passed. I also discussed this with the French Minister for Agriculture at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u55	Yeah, but that's not exactly the answer to my question. The Chamber has indeed asked for a mediator. The Minister agreed to that. That is what Mr Veerman has been asked to do. The CDA was a big fan of that. The Chamber had faith in that approach. Not me; I've always said it's not gonna work. Anyway, the CDA had confidence in that and the other government parties also had confidence in it. The Minister did. So there was confidence in the Chamber that this would be an approach that would work, but if you find that it doesn't work, you have to do something. Well, at least you'll have to inform the Chamber. When did the minister think, "Hey, it might be difficult"? When did the minister get signals from the mediator that it wasn't gonna work? Was that really only last week, after nine months? And why didn't she immediately inform the Chamber and tell it, "Room, it doesn't work?"
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u56	That wasn't last week. We were already aware that there were no counterparts on the French side. At least they didn't want to deliver. I find it complicated to give all kinds of qualifications about what exactly was or was not the work of the mediator. Of course he has had other conversations in other ways. It's not like it was just about that one point. For a long time, the mediator tried to see how he could contribute to this dossier.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u57	We've been looking back for 50 minutes. I suggest the Minister proceed now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u58	I think I have already included some of Mr De Groot's questions about the look-back in the general section. Then I come to the question of what can be done now. Where are we now and what's going to happen? Mr Geurts has asked what options I see. Let me be clear: I do not want to raise many expectations here. I think I need to be clear about preventing a ban on pulse trawling. This is quite apart from the question of how I feel about it, because I think a lot of it. I think it's really incredible, but I wouldn't want to do the suggestion that there's still a lot to save at this point. I think we should also be clear to those who are also working on it, the fishermen, about whether that is completely off the table. Again, I can say something about it once the whole process has gone through, but the chance that I can now get the lyrics in the other direction, I think is extremely small. However, I see the risk that the texts could be tightened up even further, for example in Parliament if amendments are still being made. That is why I must now operate fairly carefully and make sure that we do take the right steps. So to Mrs Bromet's question whether I dare to be honest with the fishermen: yes, I cannot make the situation more beautiful than it is. Mr Weverling asked whether the situation with regard to the 12 mile zone in practice could mean that the end date of 1 July 2021 is just a symbolic one. No, that date of 1 July 2021 is not a symbol date, but as far as the 12 mile zone is concerned, Member States may choose to close it and, by the way, for all pulse ships. For example, there are also pulse vessels flying other flags, such as the German or the British flag. If, so to speak, the British decide that there should no longer be any danger in their 12 mile zone, then that is true for all pulse vessels, not just the Dutch ships. It is not the case that everything under the Dutch flag can only be excluded. I don't know if that's gonna happen. It is really up to the Member States to decide whether they will do so. I would like to stress, however, that this 12 mile zone is not the whole of the North Sea, far from it. This is mainly about the coastal area. So it's not like pulse trawlers are just fishing there. On the contrary, that is wider. That 12 mile zone doesn't mean that the whole pulse trawl fishery will be gone. Mr Futselaar asked about the possibilities of using flags among others. Then I really need to take a good look at the outcome of the trilogue. That is simply a broader discussion, because then it is also about how to deal with new licences and what other countries are doing with them. I therefore find it difficult to make binding statements on this at this stage. Mr Futselaar also asked whether we could not spread existing licences across several fishermen. So he's actually thinking of some kind of division. This is also referred to in the fisheries sector as the'sea-day' scheme. I understand very well that the sector, but also outside, is now considering other forms of solidarity as a pulse fishermen. That's actually what's behind it. The idea is that, in a transitional period, fishermen who are allowed to go through will share their available fishing days with the current pulse fishermen who, for whatever reason, would no longer be allowed to go through. It's a nice thought, but I do see some very big objections. The first objection is that a fisherman should give up part of what fishermen usually see as a right. This will at least give rise to difficult legal procedures in a number of cases. The second objection, which is at least as important, is that it is very difficult to enforce. It will then have to be demonstrated which ship has been fishing when and with which gear. That's quite a complicated one, regardless of the burden of proof. All in all, it becomes a complicated, sensitive and poorly enforceable system, especially in the transition period. I also see that such a system is difficult to explain in Europe. That can form a rock of offence again. My conclusion would be that no matter how sympathetic the idea is, we should not want to start such a system. Mr Bishop asked whether the Prime Minister could be sent to Brussels and whether it would be possible to promote the survival of this industry there. I have just indicated that there is a broader discussion within the cabinet about pulse trawling, also quite recently. The Prime Minister indicated at the press conference last Friday afternoon that he would play a role where appropriate. But that happens with the limitation that I have just indicated: that not everything he does or does not do can be discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u59	Mr. Madlener. Now it's happening again!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u60	I think it's because of your political colour, that you keep pushing me away. There's no other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u61	I really hope not!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u62	I see that there is a European summit on 21 March in which Mr Rutte is present. I think that is the last opportunity to discuss this at a high level. Is the Minister prepared to ensure that the Dutch Government discusses it at the highest level and also connects it with other dossiers? It cannot be that we pay the most to the EU and that the French do not comply with agreements and that our fishermen are being destroyed. It can't be. So is the Minister willing to set it up at this summit?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u63	I'm not about the arrangement of the summit. But the Prime Minister said last Friday that where that makes sense, the cabinet always has the opportunity to use it. I've got a lot of trouble setting things up at a summit I'm not gonna be able to reach myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u64	Mr. Madlener, in my defense, you're really getting the most interruptions right now. But finally...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u65	That's true, that makes you feel a little better. It's the last chance. This isn't just a possibility, this is the last chance. It is the last time Mr Rutte talks to the other Heads of Government. The Netherlands can arrange this. So I assume the government will make an extreme effort to arrange and discuss it there. That's what I'm asking. I don't want to hear: I don't know how to do that. No, you're a member of the Dutch government, and that's where it's supposed to be. It's the top priority and it's the last chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u66	I have indicated that such matters are not always on an agenda, but are therefore discussed more and more on a case-by-case basis. That is no less effective, by the way. And I've said you're not gonna take a wide measure of how you do that and who you do that with at what point. That is what the Prime Minister stated last Friday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u67	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u68	Mr Bishop also asks if we are prepared to go to the European Court. First of all, I really need to look at what has become the outcome of the entire legislative process. And we're also studying all the legal possibilities we have. The 12 mile zone had asked D66; I have just answered that. Mr De Groot also asked if I see any possibility of stopping the ban. I have just indicated that we are really looking at what is going on but that I want to be realistic in the possibilities we also have. Mr Weverling asks if I am also prepared to see how many family businesses can be helped to get their finances in order and what opportunities I see for doing so. The most important help they can have is to ensure that they can fish in a cost-effective way, with techniques that are good for both the soil and the environment, but also good for the wallet. That is precisely why we have allocated EUR 15 million to promote innovations that fishermen are already developing. Fishermen aren't people who just sit still. In general, they're already looking at what can be done next. There are again techniques being tested, tested. As a cabinet, we are also putting money in it to make sure that we can really move forward in that direction. That seems to me to be the most sustainable way of meeting these families. The SGP asks how we deal with research exemptions during the phasing-out period. These are all the questions I would very much like to answer right now, but I really have to be a little reluctant, especially to get as much out of them as possible for the fishermen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u69	I can understand that. I also understand that sometimes it is necessary to hold back a little bit, but I would need deadlines. When can the fishermen expect clarity about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u70	As soon as the texts have been adopted. I have just indicated that I expect Parliament to vote on it in March and that somewhere in early April the Council will vote on it. As soon as I am clear on this, I will certainly clarify it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u71	But part of what I asked for should actually take place before that time. Silent diplomacy will get that involved, won't it? Or how does that work? And do we end up getting a feedback when everything is final, so to speak? If there is only one way left, if it continues to go wrong, namely the way to the Court, will the Court get a feedback from that, say at the beginning of April?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u72	Of course, it really depends on what comes out of those votes. In this respect, I say that I am not very hopeful that we are now moving in a different direction. At the same time, until there have been votes, I have just mentioned that things can be amended in Parliament, so it can even go the other way, even further. If I now make certain statements about 'that's probably the way things are going', I find that vulnerable, even to those who then also derive their hopes from it. I understand you're grasping everything you want right now. So I really have to be very careful with it, but I'll really inform the Chamber as soon as that can be about how the bill finally works out for the different situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u73	Colleagues have asked for some kind of timeline afterwards. That can't be given yet, because then you make too much insight into how you operated while you're still at it. But at such a time I would very much like to have an overview, a timeline of what steps, on which themes, where and at what point have been discussed. Then I would like to join my colleagues, which also has to do with our controlling role. I'd like that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u74	I really do understand the role of the Chamber and the controlling task that it wants to have. But to paint a bit of an image: it is not of course that I only have conversations at very formal moments. In fact, these are generally all conversations that take place either once by phone or when I am in favour of something else in Europe. Those aren't the conversations you can just put into a timeline. For the future of work, in order to be able to do that kind of thing, that willingness is absolutely diminished if you are going to make it all public in that way. That's also what's important to me. So what I can share, I share, but I hope you will understand as a Chamber too that it is not always easy to understand, because it is really going to affect the effectiveness of everything you have to do. But I will absolutely inform the Chamber as soon as I can say more about the texts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u75	I see Mr Bishop hesitating to see whether he is convinced. But I think we should leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u76	I agree. I understand that hesitation, but there is a great need to be able to control the process afterwards. And with a log, of course, you can come a long way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u77	The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u78	Mr Bishop also wrote a letter expressing his disappointment as a Chamber at what was decided in Europe. That's how I interpret the letter. I was asked to give an opinion on the letter. I think it is really up to the Chamber to decide whether or not it wants to express its sadness about this towards Europe. The question to me was whether it could harm the negotiating position. I don't think so. If Parliament feels that it really needs to bring this out, it is really up to the Chamber. I just have to do my own things on this file. Mrs Dik-Faber asks which studies are still under way and which fishermen can participate. The most important research currently under way is the broad multi-annual research. That's where all the pulse fishermen take part. She also asked: is it true that the European Commission should report in 2020 on the progress of fisheries policy, including on the basis of ongoing research? It also asks whether this is possible for new Commission proposals. The European Commission is reporting, as I have just said. Here too, as I also mentioned in the letter, a review clause is allegedly included in the text. The Commission will then be able to fill this in on the basis of the report in 2020, but it is, of course, difficult to foresee at the moment. Mrs Dik-Faber also asks me to commit myself to keeping as many permits as possible during the transition period. Of course; that is also my commitment. Mr Baudet has asked whether I can undertake to do everything in my power to reverse the vote in favour of the fishermen. I've just indicated that I'm still at all levels trying to see what I can do. I would also like to be realistic. When I look at the force field, I don't expect that other lyrics will come out right now in March.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u79	In normal lives, there's something at stake with this kind of thing. That's the same for the fishermen. For them, their work is at stake, their income, their livelihood. What are you willing to risk for your own success or failure? If you fail, are you prepared to make your position available?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u80	I have no personal interest in serving here. That is what Mr Baudet is entitled to assume. If giving up my position, if my resignation meant that all pulse fishing could continue, that would definitely be an option to consider. I dare say that with the hand on my heart. I'm not here because I want to keep my job or anything. I'm here because I have to do everything in me to stand up for those fishermen. I've been doing that for the past year, and I'm gonna keep doing that. But if Mr Baudet believes that it will help if I do not do it anymore, then he must submit that choice to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u81	Mr. Baudet? He's convinced. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u82	Mr. Chairman. Then we will look into the future, because a number of questions have also been asked about it. Mrs Bromet asks: if pulse fishing is the solution to making the fisheries sector more sustainable, should we trade things out with other dossiers? That's kind of what I heard her say. This is of course something that you look at in total. When you're busy, you're not just working on one file. You always look at what's broader. But we are not in the happy situation now that within the domain in which you are working there are many files in which we can also go the other way. In any case, files are also assessed on their own merits in Brussels. That's what happened here. If the question is whether I see all kinds of exchange options now, the answer is "no."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u83	Again to avoid a misunderstanding: I was talking about the past and not about the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u84	Excuse me. I shall then see the question in that light. I'm sorry I don't understand you very well, Mrs Bromet. I'm sure that's more my fault than yours. Mr Weverling asks if I can promise to call for a new legalisation of pulse fishing if research leads to this. That is what I want to say, because I believe that we really need to make choices based on research and based on techniques that are scientifically proven to contribute to more sustainability, but also to a good income for the fisherman. As far as I am concerned, that goes well together, so I am prepared to do so. That is also what Mrs Dik-Faber is asking: will I continue to promote the pulse, including in other Member States? More broadly, she is asking me to examine with other Member States what further research is possible. I have already said at the beginning that it is crucial that we do what we do now together with other Member States. We need to highlight the research that we have and the research that we want to design, as well as the innovations that we are working on, Europe-wide and shape and develop Europe-wide. I certainly intend to do it that way. Mrs Dik-Faber also asks whether we can do something about the new common fisheries policy. I think I just turned that in. It is precisely in the context of the new common fisheries policy that I would like, where possible, to prepare international research, as far as I am concerned, with the Commission. We need to pull this wide. Speaking of innovation, a few questions have been asked about the innovation resources that the cabinet has made available, the 15 million. Mr Weverling asks whether this money can also be used to organize the pulse harness to the beam trawl, so to return it. The 15 million is available for innovations. Conversion is not an innovation. However, the means are clearly intended to introduce new fishing gears and methods. That could also be a possible alternative to pulse. Mr Weverling also asks whether I can promise that the money will be distributed after consultation with the sector itself. The sector is, of course, strongly involved in determining the areas of innovation. Various discussions have already taken place between people from our department and representatives of the fisheries sector, as well as researchers and representatives of NGOs. So they were wide-ranging conversations. At the end of November, we had a joint meeting. The resources are available for basic research and smaller application-oriented innovations. To determine where resources for fundamental research are used, matchmaking meetings are organised. They start in spring 2019. During these meetings, the sector, together with NGOs, scientists and people from other sectors, identifies the areas of innovation and which research consortia are being forged. The whole process involves fishermen, NGOs and researchers. Mr Futselaar, whose name I keep forgetting, asked about the involvement of the Chamber in the proposal for the use of the 15 million. I sent a letter to the Chamber on February 19th. The work is of course done in close consultation with the Chambers. They'll be notified of everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u85	I didn't have time to deal with this in my first term, but is that 15 million from my own budget? Isn't that at the expense of other innovative projects? How is it covered?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u86	This is innovation money that was made available for my budget under the government agreement. That's what we're gonna focus on right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u87	But it is not deducted from other innovative projects?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u88	No. Mr Weverling has asked what I am going to do to prevent companies from going bankrupt. I have indicated that, of course, it is a huge setback for fishermen, but also for companies behind it. It's more than just the fishermen. We are really in the process of making sure that the sector can really look forward. I am well aware that a lot of people can't look ahead right now, but only think about what's hanging over their heads. We have made the innovation money available for this. If necessary, I would also like to talk to the banks about the possibilities for lending. I would also like to point out that we have made available a young farmer's fund for corporate takeovers from the cabinet. That's what was sent to the Chamber. Young fishermen can also use this for training and coaching. These are all resources that we can also use, especially for the future of fishing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u89	A enlightening question to the Minister. I did not read that in the letter about the young farmers who were sent to the Chamber. Is this a policy change of the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u90	No. The letter we sent also said that it was for farmers and fishermen, including young fishermen. Mr. Chairman. The last question concerns my response to the letter from the SGP to Commissioner Vella. I have indicated what I have just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u91	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the answer given by the Minister in the first term. We shall proceed immediately to the second term of office, starting with Mr Geurts of the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u92	Mr President, two motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas since 2005 Dutch fishermen have invested in the sustainability of fisheries through national and European subsidies, including research and investment in pulsed fishing;]] [[Whereas the scientific research does not reveal any major reasons why the pulse should prohibit fishing, but rather that more research is needed, inter alia, on cod mortality, and that the use of the pulse leads to less soil erosion and is better for rays and sharks, in addition to much lower energy consumption by fish cutters;]] [[Considering the importance of the pulse harness for the Dutch cutter sector, as an average of around €300,000 has been invested for 84 ships, and thus a ban on the pulse is a financial failure, in addition to the effects on business operations in the coming years;]] [[Considering the importance of the pulse harness for the Dutch fisheries innovation policy to fish more selectively, with less soil erosion and with less CO emissions;]] [[calls on the government to come up with solutions to prevent an EU ban on pulse trawling,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geurts, Mr De Groot, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Bishop, Mr Moorlag and Mr Weverling.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32201-96]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u93	The second motion is much shorter, Mr President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the result of the trilogues makes it possible for Member States to ban fishing with the pulse;]] [[calls on the Government to make agreements with other Member States where possible with a view to maintaining access to their waters,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geurts, Mr De Groot, Mr Weverling, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Bishop and Mr Moorlag.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32201-97]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u94	In my last five seconds, Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u95	Two, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u96	The clock continued while you were concluding something, but that time is already gone. The last sentence, Mr President, on this point. I'm still curious about those young farmers and fishermen, but I couldn't find that letter that quickly. Let's check it out. I still have a second question as to whether this is what it said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u97	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Wassenberg of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Four motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that dozens of research exemptions for pulse fishing have been issued by directors in successive Cabinets, while scientific research has been carried out only slowly;]] [[noting that the research exemptions were used in practice for commercial fishing;]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee and the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy,]] [[Whereas it is indigestible for society and the marine ecosystem to pay for this;]] [[strongly disapproves of this practice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32201-98]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u99	Yes, Chairman, and that is as follows. I understand that Mr Wassenberg is actually saying that the entire policy of the Cabinets of recent years is disgusting. I can go a long way with that, but the material consequence of this motion is, of course, that you reject the policy of this cabinet. I do not think that is entirely right when you consider that this cabinet, no matter how many bad things you can say about it, has inherited a situation in particular. So I was wondering how Mr Wassenberg is looking at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u100	That's right, and this minister is continuing that policy. She is the point of contact in that regard, so that is the reason for this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u101	An answer has been given. Move quickly, because time is running out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u102	The next one's a short one, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is no doubt that the beam trawl produces significant environmental damage;]] [[calls on the government to phase out the use of the beam trawl as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Government has the ambition to safeguard 10% to 15% of the North Sea from "nameable" soil erosion by 2020;]] [[calls on the Government to close all protected natural areas in the Dutch North Sea for all forms of bottom-moving fisheries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the current fisheries policy is totally insufficient to protect and restore marine ecosystems;]] [[calls on the Government to make every effort to fulfil its international obligations to achieve good environmental status and stop overfishing by 2020;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32201-99]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32201-100]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32201-101]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u103	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u104	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Madlener of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It hasn't been a good debate. This file is a real drama, but there's more. Because, as is the case here, so is the manure approach in Europe, the whole phosphate policy, and you name it. Every time there is the same pattern: Brussels determines and the Netherlands suffers damage. The Minister's attitude is always the same: yes, I can't do anything, I do my best, I sympathize with everyone. But nothing happens and that's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister has failed to prevent EU measures against pulse fishing;]] [[declares confidence in the Minister,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Madlener and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32201-102]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for answering all the questions of the Chamber. I have another supplementary question. It has looked at the international research it intends to design. I think it is very important that involvement is organised at various levels, not only at the level of research institutes, but also at the level of the Member States and, if possible, at the level of fishermen themselves, so that there is a dialogue towards the future and also towards the new common fisheries policy. I would like another response from the Minister. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas an immediate ban on pulse fishing creates an impossible situation in fishing;]] [[Whereas the Pulse Ban threatens to split the cutter sector into two groups until July 2021;]] [[calls on the Government to extend briefly until the entry into force of the new Regulation the cutters whose pulse permit is due to expire;]] [[calls on the Government to develop a transition path for the cutters equipped with the pulse harness, so that they can continue with their business,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Geurts, Mr Weverling, Mr De Groot and Mr Bishop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32201-103]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u107	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I must say that it has disturbed me very much that male roommates speak of 'love', 'blue eyes' and'she can't do anything' when it comes to the minister and then consistently call her'ma'am'. I hope it was the last time. I would like to thank the Minister very much for her answers. I had prepared two motions: one on diplomacy and one on honesty to fishermen. But I think that the answers she has given give us give us the confidence that a diplomacy is being used that GroenLinks also finds useful. She has also been honest about the pattern of expectation towards the fishermen, so I am not going to table my motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u108	Thank you, Mrs Bromet. Then I give the floor to Mr Moorlag of the PvdA faction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you to the Minister. But in all honesty, I find her accountability a little thin. It is a black box when it comes to what has happened and what the government has done. And it's not about nothing. After months of formation, the conservation of pulse fishing was included in the coalition agreement. But it is clear that all efforts have failed. I have no doubt about the Minister's intention and commitment. The Minister rightly states that she started with a 3-0 disadvantage, but it is also clear that no counter-targets have been set at the moment. However, the Labour Party chooses the position to look ahead. All efforts must now be directed towards giving the fisheries perspective. That is why I support and support Mr Geurts' motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u110	Thank you, Mr Moorlag. I shall now give the floor to Mr Weverling of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in addition to the ban on pulses, further pressure is placed on fishing by, inter alia, the introduction of landing obligations and the placing of windmills;]] [[calls on the Government to develop a future perspective for North Sea fishing with the cutter sector and scientific organisations, and thus also to follow up Mr Wallage's opinion, and to closely follow the process towards a North Sea agreement to be concluded for the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Weverling, Mr De Groot, Mr Geurts and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32201-108]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u112	Then my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the imminent ban on pulses (family) is putting pressure on companies and hinders company follow-up;]] [[calls on the government to stand alongside the fishermen and to enter into consultation with the banks on the creation of sufficient credit in the sector to enable a start to be made, including support for innovative projects,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Weverling, Mr Geurts and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32201-104]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u113	Mr. Chairman. If I could express my disapproval or distrust of the cabinet policy on this issue over the last ten years or against the European Commission, I would certainly consider that, but that is not possible in this debate, so those announced motions will not support my group. I had prepared motions on days at sea and flag use, but the Minister dissuaded it convincingly and said about the other: it's complicated; don't pin me on it now. I am therefore going to leave these motions aside, but we need to see what we can do to help fishermen in this area. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to endorse Mrs Bromet's last point. I think it would be wise for us to address ministers with their title. I found the debate on this subject sometimes shocking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u114	Thank you, Mr. Fuzzler. I shall then give the floor to Mr Bishop of the SGP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u115	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, thanks to the Minister for her response to the questions. I understand the reluctance that she must exercise at this stage, but I have already indicated in an interruption that I do attach great importance to ex post accountability. That's part of the chamber's controlling task. This is not due to mistrust, but to the fact that we serve the same cause together. At least, almost all the groups. Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the reply to the letter I have sent to colleagues. Indeed, sending such a letter may be a state-law novel, but I would not dislike any progressivity on the part of my fellow Members. In this respect, we will put that letter in order, in consultation with the Registry, so that everyone has the opportunity to sign as spokesperson or on behalf of the group. I hope that we can send out a strong signal together in this way. Then one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas pulse fishing ensures less unwanted by-catches, less soil erosion and less CO emissions and therefore seamlessly aligns with the objectives of the Common Fisheries Policy Regulation;]] [[Whereas a ban on the pulse trawl is contrary to European agreements on environmental protection, scientific and technological progress, coherence between policies and scientific underpinning of policies;]] [[considers that the willingness of entrepreneurs to invest in sustainable innovation and confidence in the functioning of the European Union are at stake;]] [[calls on the government, in the person of the Prime Minister at EU level, at the appropriate moments to express our concern about the state of play and to commit itself to maintaining pulse fishing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32201-105]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u117	Thank you, too. I shall now give the floor to Mr De Groot of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u118	Mr. Chairman. No motions. From this point on, I agree with Mrs Bromet's remarks on the relationship with the Minister, respect for her position and her commitment to this dossier. The Minister drew three important lessons from this dossier: look after the interests of small fishermen, start research in time and look at the social aspects, Europe-wide, and do not come up with anything that is exclusively for Dutch fishermen. These are important lessons that we really need to take with us in future dossiers. For now, thank you for the answer. Thank you also to the mediator, Mr. Veerman, for his commitment. I think that should be done right. I say this to the group of the VVD. I say to the Minister: set it up and make sure that we get the best out of it, not only for fishermen, but also for the nature and soil of the North Sea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u119	Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mr Baudet of the Forum for Democracy Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u120	Thank you, Madam President. I'd like to make two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas pulse fishing is an innovative and efficient way of fishing;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how this type of fishing can be permanently legalised,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32201-106]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u121	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Minister to make every effort now to enable pulse fishing to continue and prevent a European ban;]] [[states that if it fails to do so, and if the European Union comes to such a ban, the Minister must resign,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32201-107]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u122	I see that this raises a question from Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u123	Yeah, I'm just thinking about the lyrics. Is this a motion of censure or mistrust on condition or something? How am I supposed to describe this one?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u124	Yes, I was just talking about this with Mrs Arib, the other chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u125	The real one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u126	It chaired the first part of this debate. She felt that this motion should be put to the vote immediately today. I think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u127	If we do that, this means that it is a motion of censure from the Forum for Democracy. It's either one or the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u128	I would even say: distrust, because it is a question of actually resigning. But there is indeed an unrealis incorporated into it. So if it happens, it has to happen. We are different from other political parties. Politicians often say, "I'm not gonna go into it like that. So that's what we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u129	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. There's gonna be a ten-minute suspension. I know that the Minister only needs five, but we also need five to see when we are going to vote on these special motions that have now been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u130	I give the floor to the Minister for her comments on the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've got a dozen motions. I'll go right through them. The first motion in part No. 96 calls on the government to come up with solutions to prevent an EU ban on pulse trawling. I understand that the Chamber is asking this in the light of the coalition agreement. I've just indicated the expectations of that, but I understand the request. I'll give the motion judgment room. The motion in part No. 97 calls for agreements to be made with other Member States where possible to maintain access to waters. I see that as an obligation to do so, so it is up to the Chamber to decide. The motion in part No. Ninety-eight, I don't think I'm asking for judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u132	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u133	The motion in part No. 99 I'm going to dissuade. That is clear from the debate. The motion in part No. 100 asks to close the protected nature reserves. I'm looking at that by area, so I'm not suggesting this motion. The motion in part No. 101 states that the current fisheries policy is totally insufficient to restore marine ecosystems. We are on our way to MSY, we are working on the next Habitats Directive, so in that context I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 102 doesn't ask me to do anything. The motion in part No. 103 is a motion to make clear to the fishermen whose permits are due to expire, the April Group, before everything is final. It is asked to see if the transition path will be extended until the new Regulation enters into force. I understand what this motion is asking for and I hereby give judgment to the Chamber. The next motion, in part No. 108, deals with the route around Mr Wallage's opinion and the North Sea Agreement. In fact, I think it would be very useful to look at the future perspective of fisheries, so the House's opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u134	That's the ninth motion, in part no. 108?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u135	Yeah, that's right. The motion in part No. 104 asks for consultation with banks on the creation of sufficient credit to make a start. I'm gonna leave that judge room too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u136	What was the verdict on the motion in part No. 104?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u137	That was judgment room. Then the motion to part No. 105. The Prime Minister said something about it at last Friday's press conference. In that light, I'll leave the motion to judge Chamber. The motion in part No. 106 asks whether pulse fishing can be permanently legalized. We are of course looking, also around the investigations, if we have a hook to carry that through. In this motion, therefore, I shall leave the judgment to the Chamber. Anyway, if the motion in part no. I cannot, of course, carry out this motion anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u138	That's a very interesting slip of the Minister's mind. If the motion in part No. 107 is not at all certain that it will have to resign. She will only have to resign if she fails to keep or make the pulse fish legal. That's exactly where the motion in part No. 106 you offer the room for it. Actually, it's more like the motion in part No. 106 is the solution direction and the motion in part No. 107 the penalty. I'd say accept them both.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u139	I do not need a conditional motion of censure from Mr Baudet to do everything in me to stand up for the pulse fishermen. Mr. Chairman. I have one more question from Mr Geurts. It was about the young farmers' fund and the young fishermen who could participate in it. As I said, this arrangement deals with the coaching and training domain. I will send a very enlightening letter to the Chamber on this subject, so that it is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u140	Thank you, Minister. This brings us to the end of the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-12.u141	Thirteen motions have been tabled. We are going to vote on ten of them next Tuesday. But three motions have been tabled which, in view of the operative part, ask us to vote on them today. I propose that we vote on this right now. For that, I'm suspending the meeting for ten minutes. We shall then vote on it. It concerns the motions for resolutions on items Nos. 98, 102 and 107. I am told that I was mistaken. The other ten motions will be put to the vote not next week, but on 5 March, after the recess. At the moment, therefore, the sitting is suspended, and then the vote will continue.
