ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u1	I'm reopening the meeting. We shall continue with the examination of the Foreign Affairs budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u2	Actually, we would have stayed with Mrs Karabulut on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u3	Mr. Chairman. The world is on fire, literally in all places, as a result of the climate crisis, but also of politics. Look at Chile, Lebanon, Iraq, Hong Kong and France, but also the teachers in our own country. Tens of millions of people worldwide are on their feet to raise their voices, for freedom and human rights and against exploitation, inequality, corrupt elites and neoliberalism, which has been breaking down achievements for decades for the benefit of an ever smaller cabal of super rich people. We must not allow ourselves to be infected by authoritarian, oppressive leaders such as Bolsonaro, Bin Salman, Erdogan, Putin, Maduro and Al-Sisi to embrace and legitimize. Or by blindly chasing Trump or NATO. More of the same is not the solution, the fight for universal human rights and the strengthening of democracy, the democratization of the economy and the fight against inequality all the more. The solution will come from the bottom up, through the joint fight for social justice, for everyone, worldwide, through the fight for democracy, for socialism, for a policy that works for many, not for some. Mr. Chairman. In Chile, millions of people are opposed to neoliberal policies and repression by the state apparatus. What does the Minister think of this development? Last Sunday evening we saw the most horrible images from Bolivia. That's where President Morales was forced to leave by military forces. A coup was committed, after which horrific violence was used by opposition militias, army and police. Is the Minister judging this? Since October, more than 300 demonstrators have been killed in Iraq and 15,000 have been injured. It is brutal repression of a population that rightly criticises a government that is not functioning, a government that is making billions of dollars in oil exports and supported by the West. The population is also tired of the foreign interference of anyone. Amnesty International calls it excessive violence "a massacre." I ask the Minister to condemn this violence against demonstrators in clear language and to call for independent investigation. Is that what he wants to do? Mr. Chairman. The West did not want to prevent Turkey's long-announced illegal military intervention in northern Syria. Worse still, even after President Trump and President Erdogan made an equally dirty and treacherous deal after which the war broke out, serious measures were not taken. It is extremely painful and it reveals that interests take precedence over important values and exalted principles that the West claims to represent. Meanwhile, Syrians are driven out of their homes and killed by Turkey and their Islamic militias. It's the world upside down. What values are we talking about again? Why was an arms embargo imposed on Turkey not long before Syria was invaded? Why has this Minister put our proposals aside over and over again? Money had to be made. Turkey is a big spear and still an important NATO ally, we heard the Prime Minister say. Now there is an arms embargo, sort of. Not from the EU, because it was too divided, but from a number of EU countries, including the Netherlands. Of course that's very good. It would also be too absurd for words if weapons could still be sold to Turkey today. That is why I ask the Minister to assure us that no Dutch weapon will be delivered to Turkey as long as Northern Syria is occupied. I also ask the Minister to look back at all those times when calls for arms embargoes were not recommended. Without having the illusion that history would necessarily have gone very differently, I would ask the Minister what he thinks of that. An arms embargo, even for existing contracts, is actually just a beginning of a reaction. It's gonna take a lot more than that. To this end, Parliament has been called upon to do so, reminding the Marijnis motion which calls on the government to seek personalised economic and diplomatic sanctions with like-minded other EU countries. In the debate on this subject, it was stressed that the cabinet cannot hide behind a lack of unanimity within the EU. Can the Minister explain how he is carrying out this motion? Are there countries with which the Netherlands is in line and with which a set of sanctions can be agreed? I would like to receive a response from the Minister, a response in which he does not directly shoot into the 'can not' reflex, which was rightly criticised by the coalition last month. Mr. Chairman. Turkey has announced that it will send IS fighters to the countries of origin. The Syrian Democratic Forces in Northeast Syria want to send the children to the countries of origin, with the mothers with them. My question to the Minister is: what are the facts? And above all, what are the Minister's plans now? Is the Minister also prepared to hold talks with the Syrian Democratic Council in northern Syria? Mr. Chairman. The invasion of NATO alliance Turkey in Syria is yet another proof that NATO is in crisis. NATO does not appear to be able to call a member to order and force himself to abide by supposed principles of the alliance, such as the non-performance of an act of aggression. This is in addition to NATO's attitude in the conflict with Russia, which, through continuous expansion and militarisation of the border area itself, also contributes to escalation. Another crisis phenomenon is the NATO war in Afghanistan, where a lost battle has been sustained for eighteen years, in my view only to prevent loss of face. And then I have not even mentioned the demand that as much as 2% of our income be spent on war, while our teachers cannot even count on a decent wage. And what about the nuclear weapon file? Instead of disarmament, it is aimed at a billion euros of devouring modernisation, which makes it even easier to use nuclear weapons precisely. And then there are the statements made by the French President Macron. After Trump had previously called NATO "unneeded," Macron now calls the alliance "brain death." In his view, European countries can no longer rely on NATO and the United States for their security. That's true, of course, although he comes to this insight very late. I do not rule out the fact that future historians will have to establish that NATO and the US have not worked in the interests of our security since the fall of the Wall exactly 30 years ago. Of course, the list of crises is much longer, but I think my point is clear. I ask the Minister to reflect on the NATO crisis. Does he see the gravity of the case? Does he recognize there's been a crisis? Does the Minister see any possibility of investigating alternatives to NATO? What are the possibilities of creating a new security architecture capable of defending Europe but not itself contributing to greater insecurity? Or does the Minister accept the status quo? I thought that Mr Koopmans now feels that this is a natural moment to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u4	Mrs Karabulut will give you the floor, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u5	I am so glad that Mrs Karabulut and I sometimes agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u6	Oh, you also think NATO is in crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u7	No, I point to the fact that you understand that this is a point on which the VVD is going to express harsh criticism. So thank you. Mrs Karabulut just said on behalf of the SP that there must be something else for NATO. If I understood her correctly, she also said, "We need to get rid of those nuclear weapons." Does Mrs Karabulut remember that she, in my opinion, was herself asking an expert what gesture Russia would read in if we, as the Netherlands or as NATO, were to throw away nuclear weapons unilaterally? That expert said, "They'll laugh at it, because then they'll see that you're weakening yourself." What is Mrs Karabulut's reaction to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u8	Given the history but also the plans of both the US and Russia to really modernise with billions of dollars from the US, I think that is more than $1,000 billion and Russia is doing so too, and the fact that this is threatening us directly, I find it really incredible that Mr Koopmans is now calling for a nuclear weapons policy. A nuclear weapon does not offer safety, at most false security in Mr Koopmans's head. We are directly targeted by this nuclear weapons policy by a disastrous policy. When nuclear weapons are deployed, they wipe out entire cities, entire neighborhoods and neighborhoods, with all the consequences for the climate after that. The nuclear weapons debate, the modernisation and even more precise and easier use of weapons is one of the reasons why I believe that NATO is bankrupt and why I believe that it is precisely that policy that needs to be changed. In the past agreements have also been made between major powers, including the United States and Russia, in which, for example, Gorbachev...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u9	Mrs. Karabulut, I'm going to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u10	Mr President, it is about nuclear weapons policy. That just has a lot of history.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u11	Of course, but interruptions must be short and so must the answer. You have 17 minutes of speaking time, which reflects your vision. I really appeal to all of you to just handle it carefully and a little reluctantly. A debate is simply not a whole speech. It's just a mutual...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u12	I will conclude, but of course I believe that we should take the initiative worldwide for disarmament, global disarmament. This applies not only to us, but also to Russia. But someone really has to take that step. Since we are very vulnerable in Europe, the US will not feel this directly, but I think we should never hide behind this, let alone participate in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u13	Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u14	So it is true that Mrs Karabulut and the Socialist Party advocate that the Netherlands, NATO, unilaterally abolish all nuclear weapons and that Russia and other countries still have them. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u15	I believe that the American nuclear weapons in the Netherlands, after they have been modernised and therefore returned to the US, should remain there. It doesn't make us more unsafe. It makes us safer. I believe that we should sign the nuclear weapons ban treaty and work towards global disarmament. I believe that we should not spend 6 billion more on major weapons in order to wage wars that make us even more unsafe, but I believe that we should develop a different security strategy. And yes, we differ fundamentally in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u16	Perhaps then we will get a little closer together, because now I understand from Mrs Karabulut that she thinks that the Netherlands should disarm. Of course we as a VVD do not agree with that, but she says if I understand correctly that it is good that these weapons go to the US. Do I understand Mrs Karabulut that she does think the United States should keep nuclear weapons? She can't have everything. She either says that nuclear weapons must be completely removed from NATO, but then Russia and other countries keep those weapons and we are vulnerable, or she says she wants those weapons to go to America. Or does she want to leave NATO unilaterally?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u17	The nuclear weapons doctrine must be abandoned and we must return to disarmament agreements. I do not understand where this enthusiasm for arms and further militarisation and for tightening up the contradictions comes from. I really don't understand that. Especially when you realize that nuclear weapons are one of the biggest threats to all of us right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u18	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u19	This brings me to the war in Yemen, a subject where a little too often the rather passive "can't" of this minister has sounded. We cannot expect miracles from a country like the Netherlands on the international scene, but we can expect a maximum effort to do miracles to contribute to a cease-fire in Yemen. I don't see enough of that, Mr. Chairman. That is why I call on the Minister once again to press for international sanctions against those responsible for the hundreds of thousands of deaths and millions of refugees in Yemen. In particular Saudi Arabia, the country of which Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman last year showed the critical journalist Jamal Khashoggi in pieces. Choose human rights, not the murderous Bin Salman. I'd like a response from the Minister. The war in Yemen illustrates the failure of Western policy, especially in the field of arms trafficking. A number of countries, including the Netherlands, have sometimes opted for a more reluctant arms policy towards Saudi Arabia and other coalition countries, but of course, arms trade should have been completely restricted immediately when the poor Yemen was attacked in March 2015. But instead of a European arms embargo, more was exported. Trade that continues to this day. Western weapons destroy Yemen. If the arms trade had stopped in 2015, there wouldn't be so many deaths in Yemen today, including many tens of thousands of innocent children. It should never have happened. Nor could it have happened if countries had complied with their own arms export criteria. That is why I have a number of proposals, so that no more Western arms companies fill their pockets with the death of innocent civilians in Yemen or in any other country. One. Let independent research be conducted, preferably internationally, on the extent to which countries have violated arms export criteria in the Yemeni war. Two. Set up an independent national commission to monitor compliance with arms export criteria and call on other countries to do so. Three. Identify the possibilities or, if they are not available now, look for ways to impose sanctions on arms export countries that are violating those criteria. I would like a response from the Minister to these proposals. Mr. Chairman. Against the background of a total lack of respect for human rights in Saudi Arabia, also due to the repression of women, it is incomprehensible that it has been decided that the G20 Summit will be held in Saudi Arabia next year. That's not supposed to happen. If this worthless decision can't be reversed, the Netherlands shouldn't be part of it anyway, should it be invited. There is only one right attitude to a G20 summit in Saudi Arabia, and that is a boycott. I would ask the Minister to argue this in international consultation. The continuing occupation of Palestine and the expansion of illegal Israeli settlements, with the approval of President Trump, are the main obstacle to peace. It is my firm belief that if the Netherlands and the EU continue to pursue current policies, justice will only get further out of the picture. What is needed are measures that can change Israel's mind. I therefore ask again whether the Minister is prepared to restrict the import of products from illegal settlements, as is customary in other similar situations. For example, the situation following the illegal annexation of Crimea by Russia.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u20	I have a question for Mrs Karabulut. Isn't it a little harsh to come up with this point when Israel is under fire from a rocket rain from Gaza? It also affects a lot of innocent citizens. Those missiles are being fired from Gaza into densely built areas. Iran supports this terrorism. Is that something that concerns Mrs Karabulut, above all, when you look at what is happening right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u21	Of course. It is super-wrangling that Netanyahu is currently choosing this strategy, which means that Israelis are indeed dead to the rockets that are flying around their ears. In addition, several Palestinians were killed. That's superwrang. That's not a leader looking for peace and security. I am not even talking about the two million Gazans living in Gaza open-air prison that the UN says is unviable. Of course this is superwrang. This violence must stop. The cabinet and the EU say they are in favour of a two-state solution, but the annexation continues, the attacks continue, the occupation continues and the violence continues. If we want to change that, you must do something, including, as for Russia, no longer getting products from illegal settlements. Then Mr Van der Staaij will also do something for the Israeli people. As far as Gaza is concerned, the open-air prison where Israel is holding two million Palestinians at gunpoint, I ask the Minister about his view of Israel's approach to impunity. I am referring to the fact that Israel has shot more than 200 demonstrators and lets the perpetrators go free. In only one case is a military conviction. A one-month community service has been imposed for the shooting of an unarmed protester who was not a threat. The protester was 14 years old, a child. His name was Uthman Rami Hillis. I ask the Minister to respond to this. Is it not time for the international community to demand an end to this impunity? This brings me to our country, on a black page from the past of the Netherlands, an episode in which this country was on the wrong side of history, as has also been recognised by our country. I mean the filthy and bloody colonial war that was fought in Indonesia shortly after the Second World War to crush the independence efforts in that country. Although for a long time an image of so-called police actions has ceased, there is no escape from the fact that Dutch violence against Indonesians was structural in nature in which countless war crimes have been committed. The judge spoke about this past at the beginning of last month. In concrete terms, it has been established that crimes such as torture do not lapse, but give the right to compensation and that children of Indonesians executed by the Netherlands can also hold the State liable. Years earlier, it was considered that widows could hold the State liable. A so-called civil law regime has been established for this group, so that the courts do not always have to apply it. I call on the Minister to extend the existing regime so that other victims of Dutch war crimes can also appeal to it. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the 70 civilian deaths in Hawija as a result of a Dutch bombing by an F-16. We know the lie. We know the lie that has been maintained for years and a hint of the veil has been lifted. The Minister has, of course, been very closely involved with his ministry. I want to ask him how he looks at all this. I'd like a response from him. I also want to know at what point, by whom and in what way he was informed of the lie and of the 70 civilian deaths, so that we can find out the truth here in this Chamber, including the ugly aspects of warfare.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u22	Thank you. Mr. Koopmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u23	I would like to ask Mrs Karabulut if she is also so happy that, ultimately by American action, the leader of ISIS, Mr Al-Baghdadi, is dead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u24	Al-Baghdadi was a man responsible for the murder of many people. I don't think there's a normal person on earth who grieves for his death. But if Mr Koopmans has the illusion that the ideas behind them and/or terrorism have been defeated, then I think he should look back on the past few decades.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u25	If Mrs Karabulut does agree with me that it is a good thing that this gentleman is no longer there, then she should also agree that it is a good thing that there are anti-terrorist operations that can lead to this and that military efforts sometimes have to, even if they are very risky, to combat terrorism and keep the Netherlands safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u26	Permanent warfare, let's say from 2001, but it's going back even further and shut it down and every time... By the way, I found President Trump's press conference rather bizarre. Cheers when Baghdadi, Bin Laden et cetera et cetera are eliminated and pretending to have made us safer is really, really, a very naive attitude of Mr Koopmans, who says he is realistic. Of course, I cannot prove it, but military commitment can only be achieved if a political solution is available. Military commitment always has to be done at all times! It is also important for the Commission to take account of the fact that it is not in the interests of the Member States that they should be able to apply the provisions of the Treaty on European Union. Too often it has been blackmailed. I would be so pleased if the VVD looked back on 18 years of war in Afghanistan and found that we are now there to make the negotiations with the Taliban succeed. The VVD once wanted to get rid of that; she said it would work. I would very much like to see progress made when we see that the illegal war in Iraq has ultimately brought IS and Baghdad. I would be very pleased if we could look at the concrete results of the war on terror and see that it has not brought us security but more terrorism. Then we must remove the breeding ground for terrorism.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u27	I note that Mrs Karabulut is going back to 2001.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u28	But you started it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u29	But it was also justified. I started talking about taking out Al-Baghdadi recently. Ms. Karabulut goes back to taking out Osama bin Laden after the attack, the horrible terrorist crime against the World Trade Center in New York. So Mrs Karabulut says: no, we should not have intervened to combat terrorism, not in Afghanistan and, ultimately, not to combat the terrorism of Al-Baghdadi. So Mrs Karabulut is actually saying: we shouldn't do anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u30	I'm not saying any of that. If I have to debate Mr Koopmans in such a way, it just doesn't make any sense. He doesn't listen to what I'm saying. Look, I can turn off my record here, too. If you want to have a debate, you should go into what I said, namely that I want a military intervention under conditions. Then you will also go into the facts I have listed, namely that you have been saying with your VVD for decades that we are going to be safer, while it has brought us more terrorism. The soil is therefore not removed. We need to change that strategy. Then we'll get on with it. Otherwise, I find it very difficult to debate with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u31	Thank you, Mrs Karabulut. I now give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u32	Mr. Chairman. "Death of death," that's what Macron called NATO last week. I don't think you need to be a doctor to find that "brain death" is not a reassuring diagnosis. Most people don't wake up anymore. It might not have been a very useful statement, of course Putin was very happy about it for a reason, but at its core Macron did say something that is true, I think. He said that the American safety umbrella is gone, and if we don't be careful, we're gonna rain wet. That alone should be enough to set off the alarm bells, but there's a lot more. Russia continues to act aggressively in neighbouring countries alongside the European Union. An increasingly dominant China tramples on human rights and tries to corner us economically, through corporate espionage and strategic investment. They are only three worrying trends. Meanwhile, the European Union is mainly dealing with itself, with the crumbling rule of law in Hungary and Poland and with the Brexit, a kind of sad Groundhog Day. So I don't think you need to be a big light to know that the code is red: code red for our security, code red for our freedom and code red for our future. Our security hasn't been under as much pressure as it is now in decades. Our alliances and the multilateral system not only show cracks; they show strong grooves and cracks and perhaps even vibrate on their foundations. That is why I believe that a broad adjustment, a rethinking, of our foreign policy is needed, to ensure that we can guarantee our security, to strengthen our economy and to preserve our freedom. But then the EU will have to grow up faster. Like the Indian Foreign Minister... Oh, Mrs. Ploumen is about to lose her phone, I see now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u33	I miss her, but where is she?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u34	She ran out of the room very quickly, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u35	Oh, oh, oh... continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u36	Then the European Union must grow up more quickly. The Indian Foreign Minister said to us this week: do not forget how inspiring the European Union is in the world, with 75 years of freedom and the Nobel Peace Prize. He also said we want to see a lot more of you in Asia. Mr. Chairman. We are an economic giant, but a geopolitical dwarf. Our soft power has brought much but has no teeth, and our hard power is far too fragmented. That is why our foreign policy must become more European as a matter of urgency and we must do what makes us unique. Mr. Chairman. About safety. Macron, of course, was too short. But the question is, of course, justified. How can we, as the European Union, not be able to protect our own territory? That's decadent. It is also extremely dangerous. And, of course, we are not catching up from one day to the next. A European military force is not just being kicked out of the ground. But it is as Napoleon said to a general who came to complain to him that his men had to march in the full sun: then do you plant trees? That's what he suggested. But the general said it would take years. Napoleon said: all the more reason to start today. The same applies to the European armed forces. We need to get to work on this as a matter of urgency, because it has many advantages. Through joint procurement alone, Europe generates 25 to 100 billion a year. But more importantly, it also invests in NATO. We would at last make an equal contribution to our common security. Would the Minister be the first step in ensuring that we agree with the Franco-German agreement of Aachen, with the further deepening of foreign policy and with the further broadening of military cooperation? At the same time, we will have to make every effort to preserve NATO until the entry of a new US President. We will also have to think about NATO of the future. By cyberwarfare, war is not only geographically defined. The modern rocket has no mileage limitation. Is it not therefore time to look at a geographical expansion of NATO? Should we not include democratic countries, such as Australia and New Zealand, in our alliance? Mr. Chairman. Security has not only a military side, but also a political dimension. European foreign policy is currently far too weak. We are invisible on the world stage and the question ahead is: do we know how to determine our own future by acting together, or are we slowly crumbling apart because we let others determine that future? As far as we are concerned, the answer to that question is quite clear. It is time for the European Union to grow up geopolitically. That is only possible if we neutralize the Trojan horses in our foreign policy. Now Hungary is blocking strong action against Turkey when that same country invades Northern Syria. Now Greece is blocking a human rights statement against China, because of the Chinese interests in the Greek port of Piraeus. That's how we get held hostage by autocrats. For example, our foreign policy is for sale. We must therefore refrain from vetoing our foreign policy. We must move towards a mature European foreign policy. Does the Minister share this analysis? And how does he intend to prevent this foreign influence on our policy? Is he prepared to commit himself to abolishing the vetos in foreign policy? What steps can be taken to this end? Mr. Chairman. As a result, we have become too dependent on autocars out there. We were blackmailed because we weren't united enough. For example, by Erdogan threatening to send 3.5 million refugees to Europe. We have made this possible by the Turkey deal. This was necessary because we in Europe did not have a fair and humane asylum policy. It is high time we had such a policy to prevent blackmail and to give refugees a humane existence. In this respect, I would ask the Minister to respond to the call of the Royal Association of Dutch Shippers, which says that Dutch shipping in the Mediterranean Sea is experiencing major problems because there are no ships on behalf of the European Union to rescue drownings. That's what they have to do now. That takes a lot of time and a lot of money. Every minute, every hour, every day that such a ship arrives at its destination, costs money from whoever ordered that ship. Mr. Chairman. We have not only been blackmailed by Erdogan, but also by Putin. If we have a single European energy policy, we may no longer be susceptible to the geopolitical weapons of the Kremlin, such as Nord Stream 2. I have heard from Mr Van Ojik about this too. I therefore call on this Minister and the Prime Minister to make much more work of this climate change group. Mr. Chairman. A mature foreign policy also requires that our standards, values and freedoms can be defended worldwide. And that we're giving that policy teeth. So not in the short term rest by rogue against dictators, but long-term freedom, the long-term right state, which is sometimes difficult to reach and whose path is winding and sometimes even extremely bloody. We have to go down that road.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u37	Speaking of dictators, one of them is Crown Prince Bin Salman, who cut up journalist Khashoggi. Next year the G20 will be held there. Do you think, like my party, that the Netherlands, if it continues, has no business in Saudi Arabia?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u38	No, I don't. I believe that we should put as much pressure on this crown prince as possible, so that he changes his behaviour and in one way or another he is accountable for the terrible murder of journalist Khashoggi. That is why we in this Chamber have supported the establishment of an arms embargo against Saudi Arabia. This Minister has worked for this at European and UN level. That's unique in the world. That seemed impossible until all kinds of European countries joined us, until even the U.S. House of Representatives and the Senate voted to do the same. Those are real measures. But I do wish that if that G20 happens, our prime minister will go. I would like that precisely because it gives him the opportunity, unlike our queen earlier, to address all these human rights concerns there, in the face of this authority and preferably even public.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u39	As regards the arms embargo, in order at least to prevent the murder of Yemeni children with Dutch weapons, we fought this fight together. It was long, difficult, it couldn't be done according to this minister, but it can be done. It doesn't go far enough, by the way. But Khashoggi has not yet been held accountable by this man.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u40	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u41	No punishment yet, no personal sanction yet. Everything that would happen around Russia et cetera et cetera would not happen here. And you also know how that works on a G20. Then what are the conditions you're imposing on our Prime Minister to appear there? 'Cause you know everything's going on out there in the back room. Or does Mr Sjoerdsma say that if he goes, then a statement must be made publicly? If that is not the case, then I know which interests prevail there and how that works out, namely that he can rub some bloodstains off his white robe on the world stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u42	When I look at the role of the Netherlands in this, we should be proud of that. When I look at the willingness in the rest of the European Union, in other Western countries that share our values, not only to address Saudi Arabia but also to take effective action, the Dutch Government has gone incredibly far to make it clear that it does not like what Saudi Arabia does in Yemen. And rightly so, given the terrible things that are happening there. The same goes for this murder of journalist Khashoggi. I'll say this to Mrs Karabulut. You can say that the Prime Minister should not go, but then there will be no signal. No one will miss us there. No newspaper will write that the Crown Prince is ashamed that the Netherlands is not coming. What can happen if the Prime Minister goes and brings this up is that the message arrives. I don't think we should have much hope that this message will get through to the head of this Crown Prince, given what he's done, but I think we should. We owe that to ourselves and to all those victims.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u43	I believe that in Canada a sister party of Mr Sjoerdsma's party, as well as the UN rapporteur, say that you should not go under these conditions because you then legitimize it. And trust that when the Minister says tomorrow, "Yes, Mrs Karabulut, I listen, we can, we can boycott, unless they punish those responsible," that that is world news and a clear signal. It disappoints me that D66, in that sense, puts those interests of the G20 before them on such a clear statement that you can make.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u44	Now Mrs Karabulut makes it a very ugly thing and that doesn't really grace her. Where our cooperation on this dossier has been so good for a very long time, both in this Chamber and beyond, it should not do now that where I think the Prime Minister should give a statement there, this would be motivated by commercial interests or something like that. It was my party that publicly advocated, as one of the first parties, that Saudi Arabia should have an arms embargo. It was my party who publicly said what a terrible regime there was. It was my party that said at the time: Islamic State does exist, and that is Saudi Arabia. So don't put words in my mouth. You don't look good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u45	No, Mrs Karabulut, you made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u46	A quick question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u47	Well, no, I'm sorry. In fact, I would suggest that Mr Sjoerdsma continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u48	Yes, because human rights policy with teeth cannot be pursued by staying at home or just by condemning it. That's what we see over and over again. In the case of the most horrible crimes, the brutal murders and the grossest violations of international law, the European Union often does not go far beyond statements of indignation and concern. And you can't do that anymore. We need a European Magnitsky law, and we need it quickly. We need to be able to impose sanctions on human rights violations worldwide, freeze their assets, keep them out of the European Union, impose their travel bans. Only then, through such sanctions, I say to Mrs Karabulut, will the murderers of Khashoggi or the generals who are chasing the Rohingya finally experience the consequences of their misdeeds. My question to the Minister is: what is the status of our proposal for a European Magnitsky law? Who else is blocking? Who else is in trouble? When are we going to vote on it? I also saw that the new High Representative had received a letter of order from Mrs Von der Leyen, but there was not a word in it about this Magnitsky law; not a word. This is a missed opportunity for a European Commission that wants to be more geopolitical. Maybe it's even a blunder. I ask the Minister if he would be willing to send a letter to the new High Representative, preferably together with France, Germany and England, to call on him to make this the top priority of his period of work, of his first months. I hope the Minister is prepared to admit that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u49	Back to the point of Saudi Arabia and the G20. Mr Sjoerdsma rightly says that we need to use the power of the European Union better, including through the Magnitsky Act. We fully support that; he knows that. Could he imagine that we are jointly calling on the President of the European Commission not to travel to the G20 if it is organised in Saudi Arabia? Because that really hurts there, I can give Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u50	No, I'm not prepared to do that for the same reason I just told Mrs Karabulut. I believe that it is much more impressive to ask the President of the European Commission and all those invited to the G20 to denounce this kind of abuses, whether it is the murder of journalist Khashoggi, whether it is the terrible crimes in Yemen or the human rights violations in Saudi Arabia itself. If the choir of those different voices sounds at the G20, in their own country, maybe the Saudis hear that what their crown prince does is not normal in the world and that should not go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u51	Of course, the President of the European Commission and all the countries have to make their critical remarks about the regime and they have to express their disgust about it, and fortunately they do, but I have a dilemma with the G20. I would like to ask Mr Sjoerdsma openly. He was right to speak, I think he expressed his anger at the fact that our queen spoke to the Crown Prince and that that meeting in the Saudi press was used as a PR instrument. That will, of course, happen with the photo of the Saudi Crown Prince with all the Heads of State and the President of the European Commission. We shouldn't be giving him that present, should we?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u52	Mrs Ploumen is quite right to say that. Actually, we already gave that gift. Our queen's visit as a special representative and her conversation with the Saudi Crown Prince should of course never have taken place. That's been a mistake. That's...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u53	But that debate has been extensive, hasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u54	Yes, but I agree with Mrs Ploumen that that should not have happened. The biggest problem was that our queen couldn't make any criticism there, that she couldn't make this point, and that then...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u55	I'm going to interrupt you, because you've even tabled a motion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u56	That's right. It has been adopted and I think it has yet to be implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u57	Exactly. So it doesn't have to be discussed again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u58	No. But the point is... This is the difference: our queen could not say anything there, because that is not her role; our Prime Minister can and must say something there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u59	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u60	Mr. Chairman. I would like to touch on a few specific issues which, I think, are very important for the Netherlands. First of all, the IS fighters. Almost seemed Islamic state defeated. This horrible terrorist organization ran out of territory. All those fighters were trapped in detention camps. But the tipping point was a few weeks ago. The chaos in Syria was perhaps greater then than ever. More than 700 ISs, including two Dutch women, have escaped from these camps and are partly free. That's indigestible. As far as D66 is concerned, these priorities are therefore at the forefront: to try these criminals and to prevent them from committing crimes again in the region or coming under the radar to Europe and the Netherlands with all the risks involved. Can the Minister give an update on the plans for trial in Iraq? And can he reaffirm that the death penalty cannot be imposed on the Netherlands, either in Iraq or in Syria? Last Monday, the judge stated that the Netherlands must do everything in its power to get children, Dutch children, out of the terrible conditions of the Syrian camps. Minister Grapperhaus wrote that the cabinet will begin. I ask this Minister what that beginning means. Will this Minister also consult with the United States on their previous offer? Mr. Chairman. My second point is Russia. But I see Mr Van Ojik coming forward. I think he has something to say on the previous subject. I'll talk until he gets to the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u61	It'll take a while. Thank you for your patience. I mentioned this as an example this morning. It is a point about which one holds each other in a kind of grip within the coalition. I know Mr Sjoerdsma's view. I feel better at this than at the view of some other members of the coalition. But nothing's gonna happen. Mr Sjoerdsma knows, as I do, that the cabinet has appealed against the judge's ruling. He says we have to get the kids back to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u62	But your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u63	This is happening partly on behalf of D66. So Mr Sjoerdsma can ask a number of questions to the Minister here, but how does he qualify the fact that the cabinet has appealed against this ruling?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u64	Mr Van Ojik says that nothing is happening and that the coalition does not agree on this. But can I tell him that this coalition, even contained in the coalition agreement, has done an incredible amount of work trying to bring these terrorists to justice? We have tried to reach a tribunal in the Security Council. We were all agreed on that to see if local trial would succeed. We are all trying to do so under the right safeguards, even though those safeguards may seem a little more pragmatic for some than for others. We just heard. That has been a whole journey, and an incredible effort. Where we are now, is in a dilemma. I think Mr Van Ojik, despite the fact that we agree, must realize that there are two sides to the security dilemma. As much as I think we are right, I do not want to close my eyes to that other side of the security dilemma. For neither of us is absolutely right in that. It's a trade-off between two evils.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u65	That is the definition of a dilemma: that there are two sides to it and that it is difficult to choose between them. But Mr Sjoerdsma chooses. He may not have said it so literally now, but he has said very often: I do not think that these children should be the victims of the fact that their parents have made wrong choices. "From the point of view of humanity and security," I have often heard him say. Now, here's what I'm asking him. The cabinet has decided to appeal against the judge's ruling, which went very far in the direction of Mr Sjoerdsma. I ask him: how does he feel about that? Then he says, "The cabinet didn't do nothing." I ask him a very simple question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u66	Let me get this straight: I think this is very similar to, for example, the Urgenda case. That is what the cabinet said, and that is what it has said, and we are going to carry out this judgment. That is what the cabinet has said: we are going to start the execution of the verdict. That was Urgenda, that was right here. The fact that the cabinet also wishes to appeal is a legal fact. But that there will now be a start on the execution of that judgment, which Mr Van Ojik and I agree on, cannot Mr Van Ojik deny? I'd say that's a bit of a silly word game. I don't really know Mr Van Ojik like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u67	I am very pleased with the latter, but let us be quite honest: that appeal from the cabinet is not a legal but a political gesture. Mr Sjoerdsma knows that very well. That is a political gesture to delay the inconvenience that exists around this issue again for a while. Hence my question to Mr Sjoerdsma, from whom I thought we were indeed on the same side. How does he qualify? But then he says: yes, that is a legal step. Well, I really don't see it that way. I see that as a political step.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u68	I am looking for exactly what Mr Van Ojik wants. We agree. If he wants something to happen, something similar to what he and I want, he's gonna have to knock on the door at the VVD and the CDA. Unless Mr Van Ojik says: something must be done, there must be agreements; if necessary, D66 will give up his serious position in terms of safety and humanity in relation to children. Yes, that is possible, if Mr Van Ojik wishes, but that is of course the dilemma. If you ask Mr Koopmans or Mr Van Helvert, they will say the same thing. But I do think so, and let me finish by saying that if you look at reality on the ground, if you look at what is happening in the other Member States, there is indeed an increasing chance that we will have to pick up these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u69	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u70	That's not good. That's not something I'm proud of or that I'm happy with, but if that's the alternative to chaos, then so be it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u71	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u72	Secondly, Russia. It is only through European unity that we can make a fist against autocrats, or push Russia back to the negotiating table, to ensure that they meet those Minsk conditions, to ensure that Eastern Ukraine can become stable again. But this European unity is in danger of crumbling, while sanctions are the instrument here, to put pressure on Russia, to work towards a solution. I ask the Minister whether he can confirm that these sanctions will be renewed and that the European Union remains united until these Minsk conditions are met. Is the Minister in contact with his European partners on this matter and does the Minister perhaps also see opportunities to make these sanctions more personalised, to focus them more on Putin's cabal? Third, China. From China, too, the worrying reports continue to reach us about the systematic repression and rape of women in Uighur camps. The Minister has undertaken to call for an independent investigation mission to Xinjiang. I'm grateful to him for that. Has the Minister talked about how we could prepare this and how it could be advocated in the UN Human Rights Council? Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the Dutch commitment itself, which we can do as the Netherlands. This, of course, starts with ensuring that Dutch people abroad can count on our support for consular services and for the provision of passports. That needs to be digital as much as possible. People should not have to travel for hours, days and hundreds of euros to be able to renew their documents or count on support. We need to ensure that new embassies always have a consular department until such time as digitalisation is completed. We need to ensure that there is Dutch education abroad, so that children continue to be connected to the country and so that they can easily participate in elections abroad. This cabinet has, of course, taken a step in that direction. Where it was still a bit "out of sight, out of heart" under the previous Dutch cabinet, we now embrace those Dutch abroad. I'm okay with that. In the forthcoming general consultation Consular services will continue to be discussed, but at least I would ask this Minister to upgrade the existing embassy offices to embassies. In my opinion, this can be sober, it can be virtually free and we fail ourselves by calling something an office when it is just an embassy. Then also about what makes the Netherlands unique. Because we are a unique country. We are one of the few countries in the world where the majority of the population is not religious. We are the first country in the world to open marriage to all. Our freedom of the press is virtually unmatched and these freedoms also give us an international profile to be proud of. If there is one country that must stand up for lhbti'ers, unbelievers and journalists, then it is the Netherlands. But then we must do more, because human rights are of course universal, but our strength lies precisely in protecting these groups, which are so oppressed elsewhere. That is why my question to this Minister: is he prepared to make the protection of these groups a priority during the Dutch participation in the UN Human Rights Council?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u73	Those words of Mr Sjoerdsma go into me as God's word in an elder. I do have a question for him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u74	I see Mr Van der Staaij shining!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u75	Yeah, everybody's really happy when I say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u76	I'm glowing and Mr. Van der Staaij is smiling.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u77	Well, I made you both happy. That in itself is pretty handsome. This morning there was an opinion piece in the newspaper of a coalition colleague of Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Koopmans. Let me say it in my own words. I'm really not trying to provoke him, but he felt that foreign policy, also promoted by this Chamber, didn't focus on the good things. He mentioned an example of questions that an MP had asked about a comic book that was banned in Brazil. That MP was me and that comic book was banned because there were two kissing men in it and people have been reluctant to do so in Brazil since Bolsonaro. There people experience more discrimination, more hate speech. Could I ask Mr Sjoerdsma how he looks at that? Is it not important that, as the Netherlands, as a Chamber, we continue to call on the Minister to stand up for the rights of homosexuals? The freedom, which is in the name of Mr Koopmans' party, should be dear to us all, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u78	The words of Mrs Ploumen go into me as God's words in an elder. I fully agree with her, as I have just tried to say. Human rights are universal. Let me say that. There is no human right that is more important than any other human right. But, of course, we are a unique country. If we do not stand up for non-believers, or for lhbti'ers, as Mrs Ploumen says here now, you may wonder who still does. Who's gonna do that anymore? So I think this is the ideal group for which the Netherlands should run a bit faster, for which this Chamber may make its voice sound a bit louder and for which our cabinet may turn on the words just a little bit more firmly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u79	I do not know what Mr Koopmans thinks about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u80	I believe that Mr Sjoerdsma will also regard it as God's words for an elder when you say that D66 fights with the VVD for the rights of lhbti and all other people who are discriminated against and expelled.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u81	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u82	But I also think that Mr Sjoerdsma agrees with me that focusing on a comic book in Brazil does not really meet the priorities, because you want to have an impact. I think Mr Sjoerdsma agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u83	What Mr Koopmans and I firmly agree on is the point he started with, namely that it is important for the Netherlands to commit itself to this. That is why I think it is so good that we can jointly make a proposal to strengthen, for example, the capacity at embassies, not only in the area of security but also in the area of human rights. For example, in countries where it is difficult not only to support others, but also eyes, ears and a mouth to speak out to us. I think that's a win. That is perhaps also a little bit of destructive of what Mr Van Ojik has been saying all day.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u84	That's entrapment, but I'm not giving you the floor, Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u85	No, but Mr Van Ojik does not want the floor either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u86	It's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u87	It's gonna be okay. I'm just trying to keep Mr Van Ojik in the dark a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u88	That won't be necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u89	We can differ on whether such a book is important enough to ask questions. Mr. Koopmans may not think so. Mrs. Ploumen may think so. It depends on how you look at it. A book like this could almost certainly lead many young people to the wrong idea. If you treat it that way, it might be very important. Perhaps Mr Koopmans will think of very different cases, which he would like to raise again. But the beauty of this Chamber, Madam President, is that these sounds only reinforce each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u90	I agree. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u91	So does the chairman. Then I'll be the chairman. It shouldn't get weirder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u92	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u93	Finally, Mr President. If we cannot look honestly at our own past, it is also impossible to face the world with credibility. I think the most recent example is the disillusionment we gave Northern Macedonia by once again closing the door to accession negotiations. That was, in view of the earlier promise, also of the Netherlands, strict and unfair. The result is a potential destabilisation of the Balkans, growing influence of China and Russia and actually just a historical error. I ask the Minister to see these problems as well. Does he see any possibility of restoring this in any other kind of connection with these countries? What steps has he seen France take to reform the accession process? Finally, as the very last one about the past of ourselves. If we really want to be honest, we must of course also dare to take the black pages of our own past. We must dare to open them up and we must dare to answer for the mistakes we have made, as in Indonesia. I ask the Minister whether he is prepared to answer for our actions in Indonesia in response to the ongoing investigation into this cabinet period. Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u94	Thank you. Mr Van Ojik has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u95	My question is not about the division in the coalition on a number of major points, but about a point on which we may agree. Mr Sjoerdsma began his speech with a plea for a fundamental rethink of Dutch foreign policy. He used those words. That appeals to me very much. As you may recall, I referred in my contribution to the review operation. That may sound a little lame, but this was a very interesting operation led by a D66- and a Labour Minister's Party. It paid off a lot back then, but that was 25 years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u96	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u97	Would it be a good idea to give this fundamental rethink, I have called it a rethink, a concrete organizational form? I propose to ask the Minister to initiate such a reflection at his ministry together with other departments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u98	It is, of course, always difficult to be against something that was originally proposed by my party's founder, Mr Van Mierlo. On the other hand, it is also very difficult to do better than him. That's why I'm a little hesitant. It was indeed a D66 and a PvdA minister. I remember that debate when the D66 Minister was accused that Mr Pronk was a bit of a shadow minister who, with too high a voltage, shone his light on foreign policy. The question was whether that did not irritate the Foreign Minister. By the way, he didn't think so, because they agreed. It was a debate that, if I do have it, was held by former President of the Chamber, Mr Weisglas, Jaap de Hoop Scheffer... I see the clerk, Theo van Toor, watching. He really remembers this. I looked it all up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u99	How old were you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u100	I was too little to watch it live at the time. I was out playing soccer. But that was an important recalibrate. Mr Van Ojik asked whether this should also have an organisational resonance. I'm kind of wondering. I myself mentioned quite a few points which I say should change the direction of foreign policy there. But if Mr Van Ojik can give reasons why it should be organized, I am, of course, prepared to listen to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u101	The most obvious reason is, of course, that fundamental rethinking does not come naturally. You're gonna have to organize it in a way. That will be accompanied by a lot of debate. Listen to me. I keep telling you how different the views are today about all sorts of things. This requires a certain form of organisation. I'll think about that. I am also very curious as to how the Minister will respond to this suggestion. Maybe he's got some really good ideas about how that could be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u102	Thank you. Mr. Van Ojik is going to think about it, Mr. Sjoerdsma. Mr. De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u103	Madam President, this seems to me to be a good thing, but I also think it would be a good thing if we were all to do that; I do not need to draw Mr Van Ojik into the direction in which you would like to change that rethinking, adjustment or whatever you would like to call it, simply to put it in motion. Of course, we are not dependent on what is going to be answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u104	Mr Sjoerdsma called for black pages from our history to be seen as well. I ask him whether he also counts on the way in which the Netherlands, under pressure from the international community, has extradited the Papuans to Indonesia. In the 1990s, a large report was issued on this subject, at the request of the Foreign Office, by a Mr. Kortenhorst. A thick report; destructive for the Netherlands. But that report is in a very deep drawer disappearing from the State Department, and here in the Chamber, too, no one had any contest to get it out. Would you support putting that report on the table and raising it in a debate with the Foreign Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u105	I think that Mr De Roon has a very valid point. For the sake of time, I have just mentioned one example. I would have mentioned Srebrenica myself. Survivors had to sue until the Supreme Court and then had to learn from the media what the compensation they received for the suffering they had suffered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u106	And now the answer to Mr De Roon's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u107	I agree with Mr De Roon that Papua is included. In fact, I asked written questions along the line suggested by Mr De Roon. But I have to say honestly that the answers of the cabinet have slipped my mind for a moment. No doubt Mr Van der Staaij has just given those answers, but unfortunately to the wrong person, because I need those answers, I say to Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u108	The name of the report, I take it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u109	Yeah, it was Dry Liver. Thank you to Mr Van der Staaij!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u110	Also about those black pages. Does Mr Sjoerdsma agree with me that, in view of the judgment of the Court, the compensation scheme for the widows of those executed by law in Indonesia should also be opened up to their children?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u111	I have argued earlier that this regulation should be extended, because I did not agree with the time limit within which it had to be done and I thought it was unreasonable. I also agree with the enlargement proposed by Mrs Karabulut. From a human point of view, I find it almost unbearable that these people still have to come to the Netherlands at a very old age to tell their often poignant personal and emotional stories here in court, while the Dutch government can be expected to do justice there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u112	I'm glad to hear that. Then tomorrow we can deal with this together with the Minister, just like the first point that we have dealt with together. Mr President, I have one more question, if I may. I have rightly heard Mr Sjoerdsma very often about sanctions, but in relation to Russia. What I haven't heard about is Israel. You know, Israel annexes... Well, the situation in Gaza: I explained it all. What do you think should be done to promote another credible two-state solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u113	If you look deep into my soul, I must confess that I fear that a two-state solution is finally dead. When I worked there myself between 2011 and 2012, there was still a glimmer of hope. Then there was talk in Jordan, then the settlements were not as exponentially expanded as they are today and the facts on the ground were not as terrible as they are now. To be honest with you. When I look at Israeli politics, at what Netanyahu has said and done, but also at what his opponent, Mr Gantz, who may now be Prime Minister, promises, I have very little confidence that there is anything that will change Israeli policy. That is why, under the previous cabinet, I found it so important to ensure that we do not just intensify these relations without reason. For the sake of clarity, this also applies to the Palestinians, because the time for elections is far behind us. The enormous corruption that is taking place there is equally terrible. So it actually applies to them as well. It is two parties that hold each other in a hold without any perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u114	Finally, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u115	I do not think I need to explain to Mr Sjoerdsma what impunity is about. Noting this and noting that Netanyahu is far right-wing and doing everything possible to remain in power, is it insane that no measure is actually being taken? Does Mr Sjoerdsma agree with me that there should finally be a condemnation of the violence used? I would also like a response from Mr Sjoerdsma to my suggestion that we stop importing products from illegal settlements, because occupation is also an economy, a earning model.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u116	I'm saying this out of my head. The European Court of Justice delivered an interesting ruling this week. It has actually reconfirmed that products from the Israeli settlements should not be classified as 'from Israel'. I think that that is a fair and sensible statement, which the Netherlands must also maintain for the full hundred percent, but that is what the Netherlands did, by the way, is my impression. I see Mr Van Ojik having a bit of doubt, but I think his doubt is about the capacity for implementation. I think it would be good to talk about this a little further and a little longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u117	Okay. No, Mrs. Karabulut, I'm sorry. I'm going to see Mr. De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u118	I now hear Mr Sjoerdsma say that the two-state solution is dead. You can judge that positively, like I do. Maybe others are negative about that. But whatever it is, it means that the cabinet, which still believes in that two-state solution, is actually just pulling a dead horse. I would therefore like to ask Mr Sjoerdsma whether he is prepared to call on the cabinet with me to stop pulling that dead horse.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u119	No, I'm absolutely not prepared to do that, and I'll tell you why. Mr De Roon will probably be pleased that I said that, but I say that with great sadness. I am not saying that because I think the cabinet should stop its efforts. On the contrary, I think that the cabinet should perhaps double its efforts to give the two-state solution mouth-to-mouth, so to speak, so that it can be brought back to life by means of CPR. But I also think we should note that it looks difficult. That means a lot. At the end of the day, our paths are divided, those of Mr De Roon and mine, which means that faith in Israel, as a democratic state, is also slowly crumbling. It is a shame that the dream that ever existed was destroyed by Israeli leaders. That is actually the saddest thing that has happened in the Middle East.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u120	The concept of "God's Word" has already come a few times this afternoon. Apparently, Mr Sjoerdsma now believes that another miracle of God can happen, bringing that dead horse to life. I do not share that view.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u121	Optimism is a duty. However melancholy I was in my reply to Mrs Karabulut's question, I am nevertheless convinced that we will have to do everything we can to ensure that these gloomy words do not become reality. It's not gonna happen on its own. I think we should be realistic about that. Let that be the final word, Madam President, otherwise I will stretch it too long and it will cost too much of your patience...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u122	No, I've got plenty of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u123	...and we don't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u124	Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma. I now give the floor to Mrs Ploumen, on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u125	Mr. Chairman. We're worried about a world of insecurities. Are we safe? Is our freedom even protected? And how do we protect people in other parts of the world from inequality and violence? Mr. Chairman. Jacinda Ardern, the Prime Minister of New Zealand, recognizes that we are inevitably all connected in this world. She sees that as a force we can tap into. She sees it as a force we need to tap into. And compare that with the harsh words of President Trump who said: the European Union is about as bad as the United States, just a little smaller. Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party feels much more at home with the words of Jacinda Ardern, because we must continue to work together to defend freedom and protect peace for all of us. Our freedom and our security are under threat. Colleagues have already spoken about this. Other countries opt for flat self-interest and put our values at risk. Terrorists who seemed defeated regroup. Their victims deserve justice, but they don't get it. China and Russia become more powerful and receive far too little rebuttal. Russia is trying to destabilise countries in their vicinity and China is steadily working to strengthen their geopolitical position. In countries in the Middle East and North Africa there is instability or is ruled by extremely hard hands. The ideology of IS is not defeated so that all security risks for people in the region and for us still exist. Treaties that protect us have been terminated, think of the INF Convention, and treaties that protect our freedom are actively undermined by a coalition of the United States, Saudi Arabia, Iran and the Vatican. Friends of old are squandering our common values and pursuing unreliable and unpredictable foreign policy. Mr. Chairman. People go out on the street to let us know: we don't take it anymore. We don't want the oppression anymore. We stand up to inequality. Those people deserve our support: for freedom, against the servant! We want to let them know we're right behind them. We want them to know that we support their call for freedom. Mr. Chairman. All these developments call for an active and values-driven policy of power, because not all these developments need to be threats, but they will be without an adequate response from this cabinet. Because especially for the Netherlands, a small country with a large open economy, it is important to pursue an active foreign policy from the perspective that if things are going well with the world, we are also doing well. But we don't hear much from this cabinet. The Dutch foreign policy is mainly domestic bickering. Too often that leads to a surplace. As Mr Van Ojik said, the coalition does not agree on much and this leads to a lack of action. That doesn't make our country and our world safer. Mr. Chairman. That is why GroenLinks and the Labour Party have a progressive alternative, an assertive value-based foreign policy. I make a number of proposals that fit in with that approach. The Netherlands must take the lead in the formation of a new assertive international coalition against the erosion of international cooperation, against the undermining of the international rule of law, which promote authoritarian leaders such as Trump, Putin and Bolsonaro, for cooperation, for strengthening multilateral organisations and for the protection of universal human rights. We could invite countries such as South Korea, Sweden, Uruguay, Ethiopia, Germany and Canada to participate. The Labour Party and GroenLinks are very willing to approach parliamentarians in those countries so that they too can encourage their governments to respond to the request that this cabinet will make to their colleagues. I hope the Cabinet will do this. Build together a coalition that will protect our freedom and improve and strengthen the multilateral system! Mr. Chairman. The second proposal. The Netherlands will be a member of the Human Rights Council in the coming period. Human rights are under pressure. We've talked about that before. The Netherlands wants to stand up and protect these human rights, but sometimes it does not. We were talking about Saudi Arabia and I was talking about Brazil. That is why we would like to see a robust Dutch agenda for that period in the Human Rights Council. The Minister should continue to work to improve the Human Rights Council, by allowing, for example, the candidacy of countries to be more substantive, to invite more countries to participate and to prevent notorious human rights perpetrators from taking part in the Council. I would like a commitment from the Minister on this point. We also call on the Minister to continue and strengthen his commitment to two countries: Myanmar and Yemen. The Gambia has taken the initiative to apply Myanmar to the ICC. That's what I call it. Is the Minister prepared to support Gambia in this? And is the Minister prepared to continue along with other countries on the path taken to bring Yemen to the Human Rights Council, against the wishes of the Saudis and others but for justice for the innocent citizens who have fallen victim to the conflict? Finally, Mr President, on the Human Rights Council. I told you, people go out in a number of countries. Everyone deserves the freedom to demonstrate. Is the Minister prepared to give and defend that right in the Human Rights Council in a robust manner?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u126	I was very pleased with Mrs Ploumen's plea for such a coalition of like-minded countries. I've talked about that before. That's very nice. At the end, she mentioned Canada as one of the examples. Now I think: if you have such a coalition, you have to give a little bit and take a little bit, but you have to make sure that you find something together and that you are a reliable partner. How does Mrs Ploumen then assess that we can negotiate a trade agreement with Canada, but that Mrs Ploumen's party ultimately says: no, we do not want that. How is Canada supposed to be?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u127	The Labour Party has always said: a good trade agreement requires that not only companies and governments can turn to an arbitrator in disputes, but that trade unions and environmental organisations can do so. That doesn't have to be a surprise. In fact, a motion from the PvdA Group has been adopted by almost the entire Chamber. A multilateral court could do that. That wasn't realized. We're sorry about that. But that is why we are now saying that, and again, Mr Koopmans should not have surprised me that it is not enough. Just Canada is a country that felt that way. It is precisely this treaty that is presented as an example for the future, but it must be an example that is sustainable, because we will have to keep the Chinese and Americans much firmer. That's my answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u128	Then it's clear. Mrs Ploumen pleads for coalition, cooperation and reliability when it comes to a trade agreement, but that does not mean that if you negotiate something with each other, it will also bring you to an end. Then I ask again: what does being a reliable partner mean? What do you want with such a coalition of like-minded countries if you can't even be like-minded within yourself because you're always coming back to your opinion? Then how do we become a reliable partner?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u129	Again, the Labour Party has always been clear about this demand. Of course, you have to build a solid coalition with each other. Of course, such a coalition is then the right group to set an example, to make sure that what you meet is better than the highest standard. Precisely like-minded countries should be able to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u130	To a large extent, of course, I agree with Mrs Ploumen's speech. It is improbably important that we conclude alliances in these difficult worlds and that we seek alliances and attract people. Mr Koopmans has a bit of a point with Canada. Mrs Ploumen is now referring to the dispute resolution mechanism. Mrs Ploumen herself said: I think this should become the standard for bilateral trade agreements between the Netherlands. It's not really realistic to use that now to ricochet it off in this world. Then I'd say not perfect, good enough, let's go.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u131	The Group of the Party of Labour has always said, and Mr Sjoerdsma should know this: it is extremely important that such a trade agreement does not only work for large companies, but that civil society organisations and trade unions are placed in an equal position if there is a difference of opinion as to whether the agreements are being complied with. That part hasn't been closed until recently. There has been no proposal that fits in with the view of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u132	I understand this discussion very well, but there are other spokesmen who are also here. To involve CETA in Foreign Affairs now, while there is actually a debate on the list that would be held on this, a bit of grass is being... How do you say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u133	The grass is mowed at the feet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u134	The grass is cut off from the other spokesmen, but also from another ruler.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u135	Agreed. Then I'll shut it down.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u136	Not about this, eh?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u137	You don't want to talk about this. Then I'll shut it down.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u138	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u139	I get it, Madam President. You have a point. We have to do that in another debate. Let me ask Mrs Ploumen whether, in general terms, but perhaps also with regard to this particular point, she will at least remain open to see if they can still participate. That is, I think, in the interests of this world of trade and cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u140	You made the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u141	I think it is clear what the Labour Party thinks is of paramount importance in this regard. Mr. Chairman. A third proposal. The Netherlands must actively contribute to disarmament initiatives. This is rather urgent, also concludes the International Affairs Advisory Council. If I am right, next year the Netherlands will be Vice-President of the Non-Proliferation Treaty Review Conference. That's a mouthful. It is a meeting where we look again at how to stop the proliferation of nuclear weapons. So that's important. That is why I call on the Minister, in the context of this dialogue, to examine all the possibilities for a new round of talks with nuclear powers and others for the sake of the security of all of us. Does the Minister see that possibility? The AIV also made that recommendation. Try a new path, is actually the call. Mr. Chairman. I have two more points. If I am right, there will be a meeting tomorrow in Washington, convened by the Americans, of the countries forming the anti-IS coalition, and all foreign ministers will be invited to discuss the current situation. The current situation is therefore about the so-called foreign fighters: the Dutch, the Belgians, the Germans, who are now rightly imprisoned because they have committed terrible crimes, and the Americans think that the Netherlands, Belgium, Germany should take those criminals back. The Minister will be here tomorrow to speak with us to my knowledge, but is the Netherlands represented? And what will be the commitment of the Netherlands? Mr. Chairman. Women's freedom is under threat. Women reporters are murdered. Every day, women are victims of sexual violence. In Iran and Saudi Arabia, women are not free to make their own choices. Female activists are being imprisoned. That is why I have three questions for the Minister. What about the motion for a resolution adopted to protect women journalists? What is the situation with regard to the inclusion of sanctions against sexual violence against women in the European Magnitsky Act? In Saudi Arabia, female activists are still incarcerated. In Iran, women are arrested if they want to take off their headscarf. The Netherlands must make a strong statement against this. What is the Minister going to do to denounce this continuing injustice? What sanctions does he see? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u142	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. I now give the floor to Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u143	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two priests of the Armenian Catholic Church from Qamishli in Northeast Syria were shot from a car yesterday. The number of terrorist attacks in this area has almost doubled since the beginning of the Turkish invasion. One tweet by American President Donald Trump to withdraw his troops from Northern Syria has given free rein to Turkish President Erdogan to invade this Kurdish area. We know what the consequences have been: hundreds of civilian deaths and hundreds of thousands of people fleeing, an increase in the number of terrorist attacks by ISIS cells. Mr. Chairman. The Americans had troops in Northeast Syria since early 2016 as a result of a decision by the previous President, Obama, without a mandate from the UN, I add. Together with the SDF, the Syrian Democratic Forces, they have played a decisive role in the fight against ISIS. Before the withdrawal of the Americans, they asked for support, including from the Netherlands and the West. The answer was largely no. Only the French and the British have people there. The Netherlands refers to the absence of the international mandate. That is the dilemma I would like to outline here as well. What if international law is held hostage by one party, namely Russia? Can this then prohibit the rest of the world from taking on the most vulnerable minorities in Syria? The Armenians there are now once again threatened by ethnic cleansing 100 years after the Armenian genocide by the Turks. This applies not only to the Armenians, but also to minorities such as the Arabs, the Kurds, the Assyrians, you name it. Mr. Chairman. It is the Germans who are now proposing to bring the security zone under international control rather than under Turkish tyranny. The Americans are excited. Even Turkey sees something in it, as it turned out last week during the NATO ministerial. Even the Secretary-General of NATO, Stoltenberg, is enthusiastic. But Russia can still block in the UN Security Council by vetoing it. In short, the question arises of how to shape foreign policy if one country can cripple everything. I would like to hear a reflection from the Minister on that point. What if Russia continues to refuse? Will we continue to watch the massacre of Kurds and other minorities in North-East Syria? Is it not time that the Germans' plan was taken seriously? How does the Minister estimate the chances of getting that plan to get the security zone under international control and thus to bring the Turks back to their own territory? My second question to the Minister is: is he therefore prepared to give serious thought to this? Mr. Chairman. I'm going from Syria to Iraq and the minorities there. The Christian population has been decimated there since the beginning of this century. Christians flee the region because they are targets of violence. I say again that it is not only the Christians, but the Christians are the specific targets of the jihadists. Some displaced persons, for example in Iraq, want to return to their homes. How can the Netherlands, and how can the European Union, make an effective contribution to their protection, I ask the Minister? Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the subject of freedom of religion. Mr Van Helvert has already mentioned it. We were in Singapore last week for an interparliamentary conference. There we were told that Christian persecution is number one in the world when it comes to persecution. 245 million Christians in 50 different countries are oppressed and literally persecuted every day because they want to live as Christians, or because they have become Christians. Mr. Chairman. The second group are the Muslims. We also know how it can be prosecuted. In my opinion, I tabled a motion to the Foreign Affairs budget last year to see what we could do in the context of the worst punishment for repentance. Article 18 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights is about the right to change faith. What happened to that motion, I ask the Minister. Were there indeed funds released, have people been released? To see what we can do with partners in Europe to address countries, I refer to Mauritania, Saudi Arabia and Iran, who still have the death penalty in their legislation on conversion, or apostasy, as they call it? If the Minister does not have funds for this, I am, of course, prepared to think creatively with him. Then I refer him to the Human Rights Fund, which we can use specifically for this purpose. I am also pleased that we now have a special envoy for religious freedom. I would like to see this envoy also have enough resources to do his job. Can the Minister also vouch for this? Please confirm that plea. Mr. Chairman. Then the Armenian Embassy. Hopeful developments have taken place over the last two years. Following a peaceful revolution, a new government has taken office, fighting the widespread corruption and crime and the ensuing repression. This government would like to strengthen its links with Europe and the Netherlands. Let us support this small country in this strategic region by establishing a fully-fledged Dutch embassy there. I would like to table an amendment to that effect together with the coalition parties. I'm hoping for the Minister's support. Mr. Chairman. Speaking of Armenia, we have often talked here about the Armenian genocide and its recognition. Next year there will be another anniversary remembrance, and according to the motion we tabled here in the Chamber we will send a ministerial delegation to Jerevan. Can the Minister also undertake, in the run-up to that memorial, that he himself is willing to attend the 105-year memorial in Jerevan? I'd like to hear his reaction on that point. My plea remains that, if we look back on the black history of the Netherlands, we can and must also continue to call on Turkey to look back on its black history with regard to the Armenian genocide. That's what I'm asking this government. What remains to be done before the government recognizes the Armenian genocide beyond doubt? The Chamber has already explicitly done so. When is the cabinet gonna bite through that sour apple? I'd like a response from the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll zoom out the broader question of what's leading in our foreign policy. The anxiety that we see on this subject mainly relates to talking about trade as one of the main pillars of foreign policy in the Netherlands, I think. Trade is important, I admit that immediately, but at the same time we are saying that values such as freedom, freedom of religion and human rights are also values and interests. Almost the whole room says so. Can the Minister reflect on that? How does he see foreign policy and what does he think is leading it? Is that trade or are those very important values of Dutch society that we stand for? I'd like to hear his reaction on that point. Mr. Chairman. Through these values, I shall return to the debate we held with the Foreign Minister on the China note. The whole Chamber was actually a little disappointed about the human rights paragraph, but I must say that I very much appreciate this minister who corrected it with a supplementary letter on China's policy and human rights policy towards China. It is a clear analysis in which he explicitly denounces the problems of human rights, abuse and violations. At the same time, however, I have to say that the cabinet on religious freedom and the position of Christians refers to the government's commitment to the province of Xinjiang. But that doesn't mean anything about the position of Christians. It says something about the position of Muslims. A visit to a church, however well-meaning, doesn't make this right. On increasing pressure through trade measures, on which a motion was adopted following the China note, the Minister says that the cabinet is not in favour of using trade measures as a means of pressure. That's a phrase from the reaction. I would like to point out to the Minister that if the Chamber adopts a motion, the cabinet cannot dismiss it with a 'we are not in favour'. I would like to have an explicit response from the Minister to this, because this is indeed an approved chamberal motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u144	Before you continue, there is a question from Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u145	Mr Voordewind talks about the balance of interests that sometimes has to be made between values and trade. I hope I rebut it so well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u146	Human rights and trade.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u147	Excuse me, human rights and trade, of course. That is sometimes a struggle for every country and every fraction in which you make choices. One of the topics on the table is the G20 in Saudi Arabia. I wonder if Mr Voordewind has any thoughts on this. I'm not trying to get him some... But how does he look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u148	If there is something very uncomfortable, and that is an understatement, it is that there will be a G20 next year in Saudi Arabia. We do not yet know whether the Netherlands will be invited to this. We'll have to wait and see. But with you, I would also find it uncomfortable if the Netherlands were there. And if we were there, then step two would be uncomfortable if we did not explicitly denounce the human rights and the murder of Khashoggi.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u149	Please continue. I think you were finishing up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u150	Yes, I have two more points, Mr President. First Israel: 200 missiles...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u151	However, an interruption by Mrs Karabulut, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u152	Do I understand that Mr Voordewind supports a boycott of the G20, as we propose with the Labour Party and the GroenLinks, if we are invited?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u153	I don't want to anticipate that. It would help us if we were not invited or if we were not too keen on it, but I would like to wait and see how the situation develops. Then we'll have to talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u154	Okay. An announcement of a boycott might help, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u155	I'm sticking to my own words.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u156	I'd be fine with that. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u157	So I'll come to Israel. Over the last few days, 200 missiles have been fired on Israel, even down to Tel Aviv. If this had been on any western land, the whole world would be too small. Then everyone would be ready to impose sanctions against the aggressor. But now we don't see any of that. The help goes on. Of course, the Gazans should not be the victims of the terrorists in Gaza, but I find it shocking to see that the world is just going crazy, while a friendly Western country is so under fire. At the same time, we also see a ruling by the European Court on the labelling of Israeli products from the Bank or East Jerusalem. I would like to ask the Minister how he sees this statement. Yesterday's ruling refers to Regulation 1169, which focuses on consumer information. That regulation refers to the labelling of all the disputed occupied territories that will be there. If this only applies to Israel, then there is international discrimination. I would like a response from this minister to this. Does he want to accept that? I hope not. Mr. Chairman. I have one final point. I know I'm running out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u158	Yeah, I know, but there's a short question. Mrs. Karabulut, you have committed most of the interruptions of everyone. So tomorrow I'm gonna make a deal about that. This hasn't been wise of me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u159	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u160	You don't have the guts anymore, do you? You're not supposed to be afraid anymore. But knowing you, you're just gonna ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Without interruptions, it is not a debate; not that you are fighting it or anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u162	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u163	I have a question about human rights. There was just an interruption debate between Mrs Ploumen and Mr Voordewind on the tension between trade and human rights. Isn't that true for a friendly state like Israel? I would like to ask you, Mr President, to tell Mr Voordewind, that he has a duty to respect human rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u164	Sure, and that's why there's still an investigation going on right now, because I assume you're referring to the Gaza War. There will undoubtedly be another investigation now. But I referred to firing at least 200 missiles at civilian targets. Those are unfocused missiles. It's really a miracle that no one's been killed yet. At the same time, I see the tension rising, even when you see the demonstrations in Gaza. I'm holding my heart for a further escalation of the conflict. It doesn't help anyone. You know that in recent years we have been working with you and other colleagues on reconciliation between the Palestinians and the Israelis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u165	Certainly, but what do you think of the policy, the politics, of Prime Minister Netanyahu? He seems to be looking for this escalation. Of course, he attacked, bombed. Next thing I know, there's those rocket firings. Both of them aren't good. We'll convict one side. Do you not think that we should be critical of Netanyahu, precisely because we are friends, to stop this escalation, this violence, and to keep Israel above all to human rights obligations?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u166	I do see a distinction in this whole conflict. There's been a targeted attack on a known terrorist. The same organisation then took reprisals at civilian targets, on the whole of Israel on that side of Gaza. Of course, we have to see how this goes. No one will benefit from escalation. I understand a U.N. intermediary has left for Cairo. I really hope that a ceasefire will be reached soon. But here we are dealing with a terrorist organization that is trying to tackle a friendly nation. Escalation, of course, doesn't want anyone, but this is terrorism.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u167	I suggest you move on. You were finishing up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u168	I would like to make two more points. I'd like the Minister's attention to West Papua. I would also like a response from the Minister to the Droogleever report. I understand that we have never had an official response from the cabinet. I would like to ask the Minister if he will respond to that. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the earthquake in the Moluccas. That's a massive earthquake. More than 170,000 people have become homeless. What can the Netherlands do to help if necessary? Finally, I would like to say a word about the diplomatic service. This service can no longer be opened up to side-intromers, so that the diplomatic service becomes more a reflection of Dutch society. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u169	A quick question. Mrs. Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u170	In fact, this is more in support of Mr Voordewind's call to discuss the Droogleever report, of course in relation to the situation in Papua at the moment. It would be very nice if we could get a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u171	You are therefore asking the Minister a question through Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u172	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u173	Oh, good. Thank you. Mr. De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u174	I agree with Mrs Ploumen's remarks, but I would like to raise another point in my question. In August of this year, Mr Voordewind made another big point in the Dutch daily about the pile of resolutions and the pile of anti-Israeli resolutions in the UN Human Rights Council. Mr Voordewind said that the Netherlands should not sit on the UN Human Rights Council as long as anti-Israeli resolutions are stacked. Well, that is still going on, but the government has said that we will be on the UN Human Rights Council next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u175	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u176	And now my question is: has the Christian Union turned at this point, or has the Christian Union not made a fist in the coalition, and has it remained a weak hand?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u177	Let me look at my text, because I had no time to read my text on the resolutions against Israel.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u178	So this interruption is convenient.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u179	Yes, it suits me well, but I will not read the text for the sake of time. I told you, we have no business in a council run by the world's greatest crook gang. At that time, I had a reaction from this cabinet, namely that it is wrong that Israel should be on the agenda of the Human Rights Council by default. I support that line of government. I still believe that we should use our money and our human resources sparingly and focused on more effective activities, rather than making every effort to get back to the Human Rights Council at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u180	The conclusion is therefore that you still believe that we should not enter the Human Rights Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u181	Yes, but I'd like to respond to what Mr. De Roon said. He said, "Have you been sleeping?" No, because this cabinet has expressed its wish not to be on the Human Rights Council if Israel is still a permanent part of the agenda. That is another step forward. I continue to push so that the resolutions against Israel are no longer supported by this Dutch government. I'm gonna follow that closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u182	Thank you, Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u183	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u184	Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u185	Madam President. What has kept me from many meetings in the past few years at home and abroad, with politicians in Afghanistan, believers in Nigeria, lawyers in Colombia, doctors in Sweden, fathers and mothers in Iraq, is that people, however different, have so much in common. Who does not desire a healthy and safe life? At the same time you can see that it sometimes takes so little to be played completely apart. Competition, feeling of superiority or desire to exert influence lead to a conflict. Think of the Iraqi predecessor Daniel, who had to flee from IS. He said only one day before the persecution of faith: "My family received a letter from ISIS saying: leave within 24 hours, or you will be killed. Then we ran head-on from Baghdad to Erbil. We lost everything." No, freedom and security are far from self-evident. We're not living in an era of change, but in a change of era, I read. That means we have to reorient ourselves: where are we and where are we going? We have also had many discussions in this house in the last year, including in the field of foreign policy, the place of the Netherlands in the EU, the role of the European Union in the world, unrest and unrest in Libya, Yemen, Iran, but also our relations with ally America and the relationship with an aggressive Turkey, a strong Russia, an ambitious China. This also requires a constant orientation in foreign policy towards the rapidly changing world. The SGP wants to do so from the fixed orientation, from the biblical core values peace, connectedness and justice. I would like to use that three-stroke as a guide to my contribution and make a few comments on the issue of peace. Mr. Chairman. The rocket attacks from Gaza in recent days have shown that peace is fundamentally contested in the Middle East. How long will the rake attacks last? Israel can't slacken. The defence of the country is rightly the top priority. In this light, the disproportionate criticism of Israel in international forums remains indigestible. It was just about that in interrupting debates. Not only UN organisations, but also the European Union are guilty of this. The Labelling Directive, which Mr Voordewind also mentioned, is a good example, or rather a bad one. Under the guise of consumer information, only Israeli producers are targeted by the European Labelling Directive. When we talked about this in the Chamber a few years ago, in 2016, a Ten Broeke motion was given a majority, saying: no way; it must be a consistent labelling policy. However, EU Member States have not been prepared to apply the Directive equally in equal cases, and this is also contrary to the rule of law which the European Union claims to hold so high. That is why the question to the Minister is whether he wants to work for it, since it seems that it is not possible to apply the Labelling Directive in a broad way, that this directive is completely removed from the table. Is he going to work with the European Commission to ensure that this directive is repealed? Eventually that is fair, because it was not about consumer information at all, but rather about making a political statement. During a visit to Israel, the SGP delegation was encouraged by the many Israelis and Palestinians committed to peace and reconciliation. We want to encourage the Minister to continue to free money from the Human Rights Fund, because we believe, quite frankly, that there is much more to be expected from this kind of good cooperation from the bottom up than from all kinds of international pressure to try to find solutions. Mr. Chairman. Then the key word "connection." Also in my text this time there is a contribution about the position of the Papuans, precisely because we have such a historical connection with them and their situation is so bad. Since the transfer of western New Guinea to Indonesia in 1963, the Netherlands owes credit to the Papuans. But the situation of this old proud people has not improved since then, to put it mildly. On the contrary, under Indonesian rule, the people of West Papua have to do with discrimination, police violence and harassment. I agree with those who have said: look again at the Dry Lever report. I was able to participate in a general discussion on this at the time, but that was indeed quite limited. It's an incredibly thick study, about the thickest book in my bookcase. It is good to look at that again and see what we can learn from it and what obligations it gives. I would also ask the Minister to continue to fight discrimination against Papuan people internationally and to work to improve their socio-economic situation. There are also beautiful projects. I just heard about an education project from the Karunia Foundation. I would ask the Minister, through the Dutch embassy, to actively support projects that, for example, strengthen education in West Papua. I think it is precisely education that can help improve the position of the Papuans. Mr. Chairman. My last part is justice. I would like to highlight, in particular, the freedom of religion from the core value of justice. This fundamental freedom is not naturally respected. The Iraqi predecessor Daniel said: "The coming years are decisive for the churches in Iraq. Surviving or vaporizing? It is my greatest dream to live together in peace, justice and equality." The SGP welcomes the appointment of this special envoy for religious freedom, and as far as we are concerned, we should also pay even more attention to this issue, given the number of people affected by it. A number of questions in this connection. How is the motion on the classic freedom rights, which I tabled earlier and which has been adopted, implemented? The second question is whether the Minister is prepared to give practical support to religious persecutions and to give explicit support to psychological and trauma care. We hear there's a lot of demand for that. A woman from Aleppo said: it's easy to rebuild a house, but it's hard to fix a heart. Mr President, so much for my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u186	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. This brings us to the end of the first term on the part of the Chamber of Foreign Affairs. I'd like to thank the MPs for their input. Tomorrow, the Foreign Minister will answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-7.u187	I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments.
