ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the debate on the unsafe working situation in asylum seekers' centres as a result of distressing asylum seekers. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Justice and Security and give Mrs Van Toorenburg the floor on behalf of the CDA as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In a region where public transport is often inadequate, troublesome asylum seekers get their own bus line. They cannot be maintained in the ordinary bus. Trouble is rewarded with this. It really shouldn't get weirder. With me and with everyone who has been surprised about this, the question arises: why doesn't that bus go straight to a place where the doors in the back of the bus close and the wheeldrivers are locked? What is really needed to set limits to the Dutch hospitality? And this is not the only worrying message that has reached us in recent weeks. A manager of a supermarket near an azc has given me insight into a week of azc-klandizie. Thefts are the order of the day and measures can count on aggression and violence. This can't go on, can it? For lucky seekers who cause nuisance and have criminal behavior, we created those special aso-azc's some time ago. They're meant to relieve the azc's and their surroundings of people who don't want to be good, criminal or mentally ill. Unfortunately, the practice turned out to be harsh, because we have a debate today on the insecurity in these special azc's for a reason. The inspection report was clear: the staff in these azc's are not equipped at work. We do not blame them, but they are simply not equipped and not sufficiently competent. They can therefore only call 911, as is happening regularly now, and that is of course not the case. It's a good thing the Secretary of State is taking action. The letter that we received yesterday provides for important steps in the right direction: a wider occupation, supplemented by boas, which can also take preventive action, a stricter regime, enforcement of restrictions on freedom and reporting obligations, restriction of the ban on territory, selection of the population, perhaps even transfer to Veldzicht and possibly a separate reception for asylum seekers from safe countries who cause nuisance. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to talk about that last group today. We want this last group to finally get a real move on. In addition to the important proposals put forward by the Secretary of State, which are rather concerned with the management of problems, we see additional possibilities for locking up these troublemakers. That is what we have been able to do with addicted nuisances. This target group can be detained longer for minor offences, otherwise it will not be possible to effectively address that target group. Therefore, make a regulation as we already know it for the systematic offenders, but now aimed at unhindered asylum seekers from safe countries. After all, they also make neighborhoods unsafe with continuous minor offences that can hardly be dealt with. I think that powerlessness really has to stop. We can only see the problems getting worse. Make a measure that lasts longer, if possible until someone can be put on a plane. We'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Is he prepared to look into this and see if there are any possibilities, and to inform the Chamber about this? I think we're finally on the same page. The Secretary of State is also thinking of a special shelter for troublesome safe-lords. As far as we are concerned, there is one that can be locked. It doesn't have to stand in the way of getting everything out of the closet to see which detention grounds we might be able to expand. The JenV inspection also recommends this in its report. The ultimate objective must, of course, be to effectively tackle criminal or oppressive asylum seekers, because their misconduct undermines all support for others as well. Mr. Chairman. I have one last comment to make on the letter from the Secretary of State. I noticed a lot of things can be done now. We have article 56 of the Aliens Act. We have Article 108, which allows action to be taken if people still commit crimes and people can be detained. I understand that this has been intensified, but I really do not understand why this has not happened much earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u3	Let me clarify Mrs Van Toorenburg's proposal. She is talking about oppressive asylum seekers and perhaps also criminal asylum seekers. Is she talking about the revolving door criminals, which we discussed earlier in the Chamber, namely whether a longer sentence can be imposed if this is systematically done? Is that the idea she's thinking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u4	If it's people who commit very serious crimes, you can already put them in jail, the Secretary of State says every time. But we see that there's a whole group of people who do just those itty-bitty things every time. It's just too little to actually go through, but it's bad enough to make sure that the whole society has tobacco from it. It happens every time. The police don't act because it's too small a deal. Sometimes it's on the nuisance side, sometimes it's on the criminal justice side. It's often on the criminal justice side, by the way, because public drunkenness is just not allowed. We call it nuisance, but it's just a crime. The Secretary of State therefore wants a special report in which there will be more insight into all the small things that are being done. But if you see more of these things, go on, just like the systematic offenders. Therefore, this group does not fall within this category, but create a special systematic approach for this group. That gives you the title on which you can secure them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u5	That is a bit like the plan that we will be proposing ourselves, namely to see if you could increase your sentence for this group. It is therefore asylum seekers or displaced asylum seekers who have committed a crime on several occasions. Is it in the same corner as seeing if you can add to your sentence for this group? They go wrong several times. So I'm not talking so much about troublemakers, I'm talking about criminals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u6	Yeah, that's good, too. I've been thinking about it, but the problem is a little bit that they're getting one day now and two days in a sentence. What is the charm of the regime for oppressive addicts, which we have had to deal with for years? They're just two years stuck. Two years in which they are seriously addressed because they cannot be enforced outside. Of course, I'd rather they get put on a plane if they don't stand a chance here and screw things up, but we know Morocco and Algeria aren't cooperating. That's a fact. We have to do everything we can to do that, but we can't. As far as I'm concerned, the penalty is interesting, but I don't think we're here yet. Then you'll get a sentence that a lot of judges wouldn't impose; let's be. Also a lot of cops aren't going to bother for a week, because someone like that is already in a half-closed setting. So see what can be done with a measure. Both.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u7	I agree: violence and intimidation are unacceptable and must be addressed. At the same time, you must protect the people in the area: the staff in the azc's, the inhabitants and the bus drivers. So, what's going on? The police station in Westerwolde, which Ter Apel is a part of, has been cut off. There's no full police station there. Shouldn't we invest in that too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u8	Absolutely. That is the debate we are having in the context of the police. Sure. I am glad that the Secretary of State is finally picking up our plan to make sure that the policemen, if they are already there, do not become taxi drivers who take the arrestees endlessly far away, because then they will not be on the streets either. So yes, but the Secretary of State wants people in the azc. I think it's important to have boas there and so short lines. This certainly applies to the availability of the police in the immediate vicinity, as the shopkeepers and citizens can easily go to someone like the district agent. We need to make sure someone's there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u9	In recent years, half the police stations have been removed. I will not charge Mrs Van Toorenburg personally, because I know she stands for safety. But we do have an acute problem. I would appreciate it very much if the CDA would support my party's plea to provide a fully-fledged police station in that municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u10	I think there should be a full police station in the azc. I think the district cop should take everything. But let's be, that's a debate we're having with the AO Police in a week and a half, I think, and also after that. How are we gonna organize that? Let me take a look at the measures that we can take to get the asylum seekers who are ruining it for others and causing this nuisance to go on for a long time. Then we have the space to stay available for people who need to make use of our hospitality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u11	Thank you, Mrs Van Toorenburg. I now give the floor to Mrs Becker on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u12	Mr. Chairman. Many people understand the reception of genuine refugees, but not the fact that our outdated asylum system is being abused by people for whom it is never intended. Asylum shopping attracts young men from safe countries such as Morocco and Algeria and from the Balkans across Europe. They are often young in crime and are now in our care. Shoplifting, destruction and intimidation are the order of the day in the municipalities around the azc's. The staff also feels, understandably enough, unsafe. This has to stop. But what seems logical, namely sending back or securing, seems to be difficult to achieve. In order to secure an oppressive asylum seeker, there must be evidence of criminal offences. We were just talking about that. To expel someone from the country, the asylum procedure must be completed. The country of origin must also cooperate. This leads to the frustrating situation of appearing on the streets of the same oppressive asylum seekers time and time again. Mr. Chairman. The VVD doesn't accept this. Our rule of law must not be undermined by profiteers, and certainly not by profiteers, as I say to the Secretary of State, by offering them a separate bus service to Ter Apel. I am glad that it has now been confirmed that this will not be free. Why does anyone who makes noise on the bus still have the right to public transport at all? Rather, the VVD wants a ban on access to public transport. We also propose to introduce a local ban on street harassment around azc's, so that the police can intervene immediately. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. We must be creative in order to remove, secure and deport oppressive asylum seekers from our streets. It is good that the Secretary of State has come up with a package of measures. For example, the VVD has long wanted lick-on-piece policy for troublesome asylum seekers, including rapid justice. The Secretary of State announces this now, but does this also mean that the Justice Council will be involved in this? Furthermore, the VVD is pleased that the Secretary of State intends to refuse persistent nuisances in azc's. If there's no shelter anymore, you'll leave on your own. But what should happen before someone can really be refused? The VVD has also proposed to put troublemakers in aso-azc's. It's good that this has been happening for two years. I am pleased that the Secretary of State wishes to make it a more sober provision aimed at repression. Can he, while he's at it, adjust the day's spending? I'd rather do something useful for society than play football and watch TV. Why would someone in an aso-azc deserve the privilege of a private bedroom? There is no such thing in a regular azc. Will the Secretary of State put an end to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u13	Asylum seekers who are not worthy of our hospitality must leave the country. We all agree on that. But at the same time they are empty cries, because we see that asylum procedures are only getting longer. Fewer and fewer people are being deported. So what exactly are you proposing on behalf of the VVD? What does the Secretary of State have to do to make sure we actually deport people? In the last two years, this has not been achieved or has hardly been achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u14	That's a fair question. That's what I said. You wish you could lock them down and turn them off. In order to put someone in jail, there must be evidence of criminal offences. Detention is a last resort if there is a risk of withdrawal from supervision and if there is a view of expulsion. Unfortunately, there is not always a view of expulsion when a country of origin, Mrs Van Toorenburg, has just said that it does not cooperate. Think of Algeria. As far as the VVD is concerned, I will also deal with it later on. In Europe, we need to make much firmer agreements on, for example, the adaptation of the Return Directive, so that we can put burden-bearing asylum seekers in detention, and we need to make a fist in Europe against countries such as Morocco and Algeria, so that they do participate in the withdrawal of out-of-court asylum seekers. For example, there are still a lot of adjustments, which I will make in my speech later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u15	It's a good thing you can do all this in a couple of minutes. But very seriously: I support the call, but I only note that no breakthroughs have been made in this area in the last two years, that the nuisance of safe people has only increased and that no agreement has been reached with Europe. How do we prevent empty cries and ensure that something actually happens? And in addition, I don't like that bus line. Are we just gonna tell the Secretary of State to stop this bullshit?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u16	First of all, about the safe-lords. The irritation that Mrs Kuik brings out here is also my irritation. At the same time, the number of safe people who have come to the Netherlands for asylum has decreased. I think the Secretary of State writes the same thing. Of all possible measures in Europe, the Netherlands has the most comprehensive package of measures to ensure that the procedures for these safe-lords are carried out as quickly as possible. An evaluation report has shown this. We did, but much more needs to be done. I agree with Mrs. Chicken. Then that bus line. As far as I am concerned, that is not the solution. That is why I ask the Secretary of State to come up with a ban on access to public transport so that these people are not rewarded with their own bus but punished for their oppressive behaviour. I wonder how he'll react to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u17	Mrs Becker has just made a point which is also contained in the letter. I actually thought it was a very worrying point. I want to know what the VVD thinks about that. People who don't behave will eventually be kicked out of care. But isn't that about the dumbest thing we can do? We move the most serious nuisance to an institution where all the problems are combined. If you can't maintain it at all, you'll be put out on the street. That's never supposed to happen, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u18	I think this is a very fair question that we all have to ask. In spite of the fact that people repeatedly abuse our hospitality and repeatedly raise their middle finger against Dutch society, to Dutch asylum seekers' centres, we have to say over and over again: "Come back into that gate. Here's your bed. You are welcome, because we are a country that will always arrange shelter for you." I disagree. I think there should be limits to that. It's also a possible punishment. I'm glad the Secretary of State says he's gonna use it, too. That doesn't mean that I think these people should be on the streets, left to their fate, causing nuisance. Because of the crimes they commit on the street, they must be able to be imprisoned. I think that is what Mrs Van Toorenburg wants. Only, I don't want them in a shelter, I want them in detention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u19	Then we'll agree on that. That is why I have come up with a concrete plan. I do find it worrying that in the letter there is still a hint of: if people do not behave, we put them on the street. That sounds really cool. They're on the street. That's good, 'cause at least they won't have a bed. But I'm afraid that shopkeepers, the average Dutchman and parents who are afraid to let their child go to school, will pay the price. That's why I suggest we keep them in those aso-azc's. Sober it up. That's totally fine. But kicking them out on the street so they can misbehave over there, I think it's even dumber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u20	On the same point, because I think Mrs Van Toorenburg is right to raise a point. Mrs. Becker puts on a big pair of pants and says, "Out of the shelter." But if we look at, for example, a voluminous study of the WODC, we can simply find that all such measures do not work at all. We all know it's a kind of travelling circus: people are in Germany for a while, in Belgium for a while and in Holland for a while. If Mrs Becker puts them on the street, we have a lot of trouble there, they might go abroad for a while and we'll see them again. Is this really a good idea, or does Mrs. Becker have better ideas?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u21	We have to do everything, embrace all the ideas that help us to secure and deport these people. The travelling circus is also a thorn in my eye. That is why I have already asked the Secretary of State whether we cannot cooperate with Belgium and Germany and whether there can be a European registration system, so that it is immediately known here as people who have caused nuisance in France come to the Netherlands and can be dealt with immediately. I'll ask the Secretary of State about that in a moment. But yes, the VVD may make a different choice from D66 in principle. For me, shelter is once ready when people repeatedly show that they are undermining our hospitality. If they then cause nuisance, we must, of course, be on top of their behavior with the police and the justice system. But shelter in an environment where there is a bed but no further restrictions can be imposed on these people will come to an end as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u22	Then I have to conclude that Mrs Becker is sweeping the streets from the asylum-seekers' centre. She hopes we'll fight the nuisance or criminal offences later, but that's all after. Then we saddled the municipalities with this problem because the Secretary of State couldn't solve it. Am I getting that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u23	The question is whether people will stay in the Netherlands if there is no more shelter. We have seen more often that people with unknown destinations would suddenly have left if measures of this kind were taken. I prefer that rather than that they continue to cause nuisance here in the surrounding municipalities over and over again because there is shelter. So I think it might work the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u24	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u25	Yes, finally, Mr. Chairman. From people who have left for unknown destinations, we do not know whether they have left the country or still hang out somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u26	The debate has only just begun, but I think we are all going to argue today for tough and perhaps even tougher measures against oppressive asylum seekers. I think this is right, but I would like to ask Mrs Becker the following. The VVD has been responsible for asylum and migration policy for seven years since 2012. How does she look back on the last seven years? This Secretary of State is the third in a row. Has it happened enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u27	So you want an interruption to look back on what the VVD has done in the last seven years?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u28	I believe that very important steps have been taken, including in Europe, at the suggestion of the Netherlands. In 2015, during the major asylum and migration crisis, important steps were taken, for example by making a deal with Turkey and by training the Libyan Coast Guard, to curb the large influx towards Europe, including towards the Netherlands. This has been done, for example, under the responsibility of the VVD. My predecessor Malik Azmani has worked hard on this. In the meantime, as the Netherlands, we are working on reception in the region. In the meantime, we're working on getting people perspective instead of coming here. For example, Secretary of State Dijkhoff has adapted the so-called sliding scale internally and has ensured that a crime does not require 18 months in prison before it can have an effect on a person's residence permit, which has been reduced to six months. So we can say to people faster: because you've shown criminal behavior, you don't get a residence permit or we withdraw it. The VVD managed to arrange that too. Did that work out for you? Definitely not. We therefore call for full reform of the asylum system. As far as I am concerned, that would be a next step. I'll ask the Secretary of State for that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u29	The number of people who have gone and returned has only fallen. The nuisance that people cause has only gotten bigger, not smaller. So my question was not so much: what happened around the EU-Turkey deal? My question was very specific: is it really rather sad that we are standing here now and trying to outdo each other with the Secretary of State calling for harder and harder action? I'll do that, perhaps to your surprise, later. But, yeah, we obviously haven't done something right in the last seven years, have we?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u30	In my view, there is a letter on the agenda evaluating the measures taken in recent years, including towards safe people. There are also two measures announced by the cabinet, which either on the basis of case law or European legislation proved impossible to implement. At the same time, it has not been demonstrated that the number of safe-landers coming here has increased. In fact, that number has decreased. What the researchers are just saying is that they don't know if it's because of the measures. This is all due to your substantive point, but I share your concern about the troublesome asylum seekers, and that is why I am standing here with a number of proposals and requests to the Secretary of State. We need to be creative and we need to do everything, despite Europe, despite case law and despite all kinds of limitations. We also just heard a creative proposal from Mrs Van Toorenburg. I hope we all come up with creative proposals today. I ask for a ban on entry and more often for a ban on territory. Let's do all that, because I think we agree that this has to end.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u31	For years the VVD has let them all in, and the only thing she comes up with now is: if they cause nuisance, we just send them into the neighborhoods. Those are the neighbourhoods where people are already faced daily with threats and abuses. Public transport is being terrorized. And what's the VVD coming with? Gives them their own bus line. Then the VVD can come up with nice talk that that bus line doesn't turn out to be free, but that doesn't interest us at all. They are all nice talk from the honourable colleague as well as from the Secretary of State. It is always the VVD: nice talk but no action. What are you going to do, instead of sending these people into illegality, to throw them out of the country?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u32	I think that's what my whole argument is about. I also make several proposals in a constructive way. I do not think it is so constructive what the PVV is saying here, that it is all nice talk, while the PVV constantly has only one simplistic solution, and that is: borders close and away from the EU.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u33	They're often the best.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u34	I don't think that's realistic. I believe that we have also shown that the major migration crisis in 2015 has been mitigated precisely by a European common approach and agreements with other countries. We must continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u35	Complete nonsense. This whole immigration crisis has been triggered by the European Union, by Mrs Merkel's friends. The VVD has slavishly resigned instead of saying: they are all not welcome here, they all come from all kinds of safe countries, they just linea recta back to Germany. No, we kept them all in, almost 400,000 non-Western immigrants under Rutte's rule. Nothing's been done. Just nice talk, but no action.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u36	In my view, the asylum influx figures show that compared to 2015 the asylum influx into the Netherlands, the number of asylum applications, has fallen. The same applies to Europe. I believe the influx has even been reduced by 90%. We were neither there when these decisions were taken, but I know that my colleague Malik Azmani and also the VVD have certainly not played a slavish role here but have taken initiatives to contain the crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u37	Mr Van Ojik spoke about the last seven years. I have been back a little bit, but in fact the VVD has been largely responsible for this mispolicy over the past 25 years, for these problems that we are facing today. And all of a sudden, you have to deal with nuisance. But it is strange that the VVD here is now screaming murder and fire, while the VVD has been largely responsible for that policy for the past 25 years, and also for closing half of the Dutch police stations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u38	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u39	It is those people in that area who are dropping hard, the people who are now calling for protection on that bus line, in that municipality, for those shops. Do you support my plea for more police protection in that region?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u40	It was a very long run...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u41	That's always...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u42	It is easy from the perspective of the SP to say that the VVD is responsible for everything that is wrong, because it has been in the government. It's easy to say that if you've never held government responsibility yourself. I think the Aliens Act has been tightened up on many important points thanks to the VVD. I believe that there have been important reforms in the system. If it is up to the VVD, we are going to carry out further fundamental reforms in the system. As far as Mr Van Dijk's plea to protect people in the vicinity of asylum seekers' centres is concerned, let me make it clear that that is what my whole plea is about. We must do so in many ways, including by supporting the police. For example, I also read in the letter that the Secretary of State has arranged for more cell capacity to be created in Ter Apel, so that the police do not have to drive all the way to Groningen when people have done something, for example, and spend a lot of time on it at the expense of other things that have to be done. I also believe that we are looking at the employability of the police. In the end, however, it is not just about the employability of the police, but also about powers. Can you impose a restraining order? We have to look at this creatively and I make a number of proposals for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u43	Mrs Becker is right: the SP has not yet ruled. That's gonna come, don't worry. But would Mrs Becker be able to acknowledge the equestrian: "Yes, it is true. The VVD has ruled for a long time and the VVD has also made mistakes. It was not wise to close half of the police stations in the Netherlands, which makes people feel abandoned, which makes people in that region, we are talking about today, Westerwolde, feeling unsafe, threatened, spit and intimidated." We have to protect them. That is a core task of the government. Liberals fully agree with that. So it would be very good if the VVD were to join the SP's proposal today to set up a fully-fledged police station in the municipality of Westerwolde. Do you share that plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u44	Once again, I think it is very important that we listen carefully to the police about the instruments and powers they need. For example, the police said, "Give us a registration system." That's what I'm asking the Secretary of State. Is that gonna happen? Make sure all instruments are clear. I believe that the Secretary of State has made it very clear with a quick reference card which instruments the police can use so that it can be put into practice more often. I think that's where the solution lies. And for the rest, the discussion about investing in the police, the national police and what all that means, I do not think is part of this debate right now. I would like to discuss this with Mr Van Dijk some other time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u45	I hear Mrs Becker telling the Secretary of State to take a number of measures. I think that's a little low-hanging fruit. Mrs Van Toorenburg has proposed that longer penalties be imposed, an accumulation. What do you think of that? I will also propose later that we perhaps add to the penalty when it comes to criminals. When it comes to asylum seekers or asylum seekers, what does the VVD think of more structural measures, for example to see if we can get them locked up longer, instead of sending them out on the streets, where they cause more nuisance?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u46	My proposal wasn't to send them out on the street, where they cause more trouble. I'm making a number of proposals for what might happen. For example, imposing an order on the territory around asylum seekers' centres which are not aso-azc, because there are also safe people who cause nuisances. I have made a number of other proposals. That's not "send on the street" and that's not "low-hanging fruit." Why do I do that? It is precisely because, in my view, we also need to be able to intervene in the case of minor offences, smaller forms of nuisance which cannot be subject to longer prison sentences, or perhaps not the measure proposed by Mrs Van Toorenburg. For example, by banning street harassment, and then by one when an asylum seeker is misbehaving at the bus stop can say: this is a violation of that ban, so this contributes to your file again. But I am open to any of these proposals. The larger a package of measures with creative possibilities to intervene, the better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u47	Finally, Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u48	I hear other colleagues making three interruptions, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u49	Yeah, that was one time. That was Mr Groothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u50	No, twice, Mr. Chairman. But it doesn't matter. Finally, I would like to make a comment. I am pleased that Mrs Becker responds positively and is open to all creative ideas, also towards Mrs Van Toorenburg and perhaps towards that punishment. However, I would like to hear a little more specific from her. I shall do it a little bit more in the future, which she thinks is an increase in the penalty for criminal asylum seekers who have committed crimes. Shouldn't we impose a penalty for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u51	Mr. Chairman. I am going to listen with interest to what Mr Voordewind is proposing there. It sounds to me, if that is possible and if that can contribute to a solution, as something positive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u52	Madam President, if I have a positive response, I shall confine myself to one interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u53	Very good. You can do that!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u54	Together with Mr Lodewijk Asscher, the CDA has come up with the proposal to make street harassment criminal at all and not to look at it every time: what kind of problem is there in which neighborhood? Because then you don't have to sit in all those municipalities every time to do something, but we just make it criminal. Is the VVD going to look very positive about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u55	I should like to start with a positive approach to the VVD, and I am always looking constructively at initiatives taken by colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u56	And now the answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u57	It is true that we simply have to look carefully at this bill, because there are some technical, substantive objections, I understand from the spokesperson who is talking about this. But what I understand most of all is that a ban on street harassment can really help as a local customization. It must be an environment in which people at some point no longer dare to walk through a particular street because there again and again on a street corner cause people trouble. Well, that goes for example at a bus stop in Ter Apel.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u58	No, but you don't have to deal with the bill now. The question was...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u59	So that's why my answer is...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u60	You'll get back to that, fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u61	That is why my answer is that it is already possible without this amendment of the law and that I am now asking the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u62	You are forced to ask another question, I see, Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u63	Yes, Mr. Chairman, because the answer was not "yes." Otherwise, I would have agreed to meet you. Because isn't it the problem that every time we force all these municipalities to ring the bell only when the entrepreneurs and the neighborhood are talking about it? Shouldn't we just make one neat national scheme, which indeed takes all aspects into account, so that not every municipality has to start over again?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u64	Mr President, I am going to try to be very brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u65	Yes, please!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u66	We have to look at the legislative proposal and the discussion surrounding it, but I want to see what is already possible now. Is a ban on street harassment already possible in the municipalities where mayors have reported and say "I have structural problems here"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u67	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u68	As I've just said, there are also troublesome safety guys who can't go to an aso-azc. Can they also be ordered for the azc so that they don't mess around in the surrounding municipality? And can an atmosphere-pv be created for them in case of incidents? The VVD also wants a better registration system, in line with requests from the police, to improve file building and the possibility of detention. How's that going? Mr. Chairman. It's okay to be clear. The VVD wants to detain and evict people who are harassing asylum seekers as soon as possible. We were just talking about this: the Netherlands can't do that alone. What is the status of the discussions on the Return Directive in order to ensure that those responsible for this offence can also be put into detention without a conviction and to make crime a ground for foreign detention? What about the plans for a European registration system? How are we going to use Europe to actually send safe people back to countries such as Morocco and Algeria and to get Dublin applicants back to the responsible Member State as soon as possible? Anything that is necessary must be taken out of the closet so that people who are harassing us will actually find out that they are not welcome here. Above all, it is clear to the VVD once again that the current asylum system is bankrupt. That is why today we are again calling on the Secretary of State to use this momentum and to encourage the EU to radically reform European asylum policy. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u69	Thank you, Mrs Becker. I now give the floor to Mr Emiel van Dijk on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For years, this Secretary of State has promised to tackle the aggressive and robbing asylum seekers hard. The only thing that has emerged from this is a so-called aso-azc for harassing asylum seekers. It was presented with a lot of bombs, but what a fiasco it turned out to be. If it had been such a success, we would not have had to stand here today. Promise after promise from this Secretary of State flew us to address the nuisance of the asylum equipment, but over and over again nothing happened. The so-called aso-azc has just turned out to be a complete flop. One, it costs a lot of money. Two: it doesn't solve the aggression, because they just walk out and move on to another location. Three: the troublemakers can simply walk in and out and often disappear into illegality. I have just heard the VVD's proposal on this. Mr. Chairman. So everyone can see that these aso-azc's have failed, but when the PVV comes up with proposals to arrest, secure and deport nuisances, the Secretary of State does not give at home. Nor can the cabinet go much further than 'Europe must not do'. What it does come with is that they're rewarded with their own free bus line, the Mark Harbers vehicle express, if you like. The PVV therefore calls on the government to expel the oppressive asylum seekers and, as long as that is not possible, to secure them under a very strict regime. As far as the PVV is concerned, the only possibility and the only way to bring order to the chaos is to stop the entry of new asylum seekers immediately. Otherwise mopping with the tap will remain open. So we need a complete asylum stop. But not only the safety of the staff in the aso-azc's is at stake. Also in the Rotterdam Detention Centre, staff are confronted with violent and well-treated asylum seekers. What needs to be done here is to be tough on these people and to effectively evict them as soon as possible. A relaxation of the detention regime cannot, of course, be a matter of course, but unfortunately, that is precisely what is at risk of happening now. The Return and Foreign Warranty Act is currently in the First Chamber for treatment and provides for a relaxation of the current regime for exiled. The PVV therefore urgently calls on the State Secretary to withdraw this bill, so there will be no relaxation. Mr President, I shall conclude. For years we have been dealing with criminal behaviour and aggression of asylum seekers. For years nothing has been done about it by this Secretary of State, except, of course, paps, wets and bureaucracy. Mostly a lot of words, but no deeds. I would therefore like to give the following advice to the Secretary of State. Stop this horrible mess in the margins. Why don't you go and do something that you're paid to do and fight them out of the country? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u71	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u72	Mr. Chairman. We all agree that we want to provide genuine refugee reception and that people who apply for asylum here should be able to follow a proper procedure. But those who are not worthy of our hospitality must leave the country as soon as possible. This applies to criminals and harassing asylum seekers. We need to make sure that they do not make the neighborhood unsafe and that staff working in the shelters can do their job safely. Mr. Chairman. The most important thing is that oppressive criminal asylum seekers leave the country as soon as possible. We can talk for a long time about all kinds of measures we are taking to reduce the problem, but if we cannot then take action to actually turn people off, it is actually mopping with the tap open. Therefore, my first question is: what concrete actions can we expect from the Secretary of State in the negotiations with known safe countries of origin to which return is going to be very difficult, which makes it difficult to expel such people? We are talking about Morocco and Algeria. Let me mention the example of Morocco and Spain. Why has Spain been reasonably successful in putting people back in all these years? Because Spain did not only use stick methods, but also root methods. 'Cause sometimes it just takes a little time to make deals, too. This can happen in the Netherlands. That can happen in Europe. But I cannot leave it with just fine words and intentions like 'they must leave the country' if that then leads nowhere. So I would strongly invite the Secretary of State to do something about this. What can we expect from him now? How are we going to ensure that asylum procedures are speeded up again? 'Cause it's just getting up. Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State has announced that he will use boas. I'd like that. But how are we going to see if the measures announced will have the desired effect? Do employees feel safer? Do residents feel safer? How do you measure that what you do has an effect? And how are the employees and the trainings they get themselves? Because many of the employees who are now employed in so-called aso-azc's have not been trained to do so at all. They are not former prison keepers, even though you almost have to have the qualification and training of a prison keeper to do your job properly and safely. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. I have already said in my little interrupting debate with Mrs Becker of the VVD that I personally think that bus really sucks. I do not think it can be explained either, especially in an area where there are hardly any bus lines or where the transport of people with disabilities is difficult. And then there would be such a separate bus line. Either you behave, or you just don't get into the opener. That would be my simple solution. Mr. Chairman. I also agree with those who were critical of not releasing the aso-azc, because that does not make much sense in the end. Either one leaves with unknown destination and maybe joins other organisations, or one turns up elsewhere in Europe. That is why I have a positive view of the proposals made by Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mr Voordewind, who say: can you do something about the sanctions? The moment you're a criminal, you commit criminal offences and you should be in jail for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u73	Were you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u74	I'll make that up in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u75	Then Mrs. Kikik can also drink a glass of water before she has made up something. I would like to ask Mrs Kuik as an active politician from Brabant whether it has not been a huge missed opportunity for the PI Tilburg to be closed for the foreign detention, because if there was one institution in the Netherlands that was able to offer that limit, then it was the PI Tilburg. We should actually ask the Secretary of State to reconsider that closure every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u76	Yeah, yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u77	Okay. That's clear, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u78	I hear Mrs Kuik quite rightly say that we must ensure that people can go back to their country of origin and that they often do not cooperate. I think that is absolutely right. Now it was Mr Asscher who sought the conflict with Morocco over payments in Morocco a few years ago. That is not very wise if you then want to achieve something with such a country. Does Mrs Kuik agree with me that if you want to get something done from Morocco, you should be prepared to add water to the wine and that you should have something to offer once in a while? And then maybe it wouldn't be wise to argue with a country like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u79	That has been discussed in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u80	Sure. Apart from benefits, it seems obvious to me that sometimes you have to have something to offer in order to make a deal. That's what we saw on the Turkey deal. In addition, it was about a lot of money. But it takes a lot of effort. When it comes to Albania, you are not there by one visit by two rulers in one week. That doesn't mean we have less climbers. It therefore takes a long time to reach agreements with countries to take back their nationals. That's a bit of what I'm missing in the approach. It is being discussed, but I am missing concrete actions in this area that I know other countries have successfully been able to operate with in the past. Mr President, I will conclude. I think we all agree in this house that this is an undesirable situation. We are asking for an approach in the interests of all those people who have to do the work and those who live around oppressive asylum seekers. I wish them all the best. I look forward to being answered by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u81	I fully agree with Mrs Kuik that it is frustrating that we can continue to talk about this for a long time, but ultimately people cannot turn off. People then stay here in the Netherlands. Of course, the Secretary of State must try to ensure that he makes agreements with countries such as Morocco and Algeria, but there is, as far as I am concerned, another important solution that we should perhaps consider, given this situation. Should we not consider criminalising people staying illegally in the Netherlands, knowing that they should leave but not do so, and not voluntarily cooperate in departure?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u82	No, I'm not for that. I don't suffer from an illegal child, but I do suffer from a safe man applying for asylum here. That's the difference I see and I'm looking for. Even the mayor of Weert, who is the leading figure in raising the problems he faces, says: there was a lot of resistance here to receiving refugees, but there was support, there was understanding, and people offered help. But that support is crumbling at the moment when you are systematically suffering from harassing asylum seekers. We do not suffer from an illegal child, which I do not think is desirable, but we do suffer from harassing asylum seekers, who are right and proper here. They're not illegal, they're just in the shelter. And we need to do something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u83	But isn't it true that in the end we do suffer from it? If someone doesn't leave and can't be deported, he can stay here years in, years out of illegal residence and cause nuisance. If you stand here as the Labour Party and say 'we must consider all the solutions to put an end to this', is it not fair to say that we should also do something about this illegality? That should no longer be possible in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u84	That is really an idiotic argument, because what those criminal and oppressive asylum seekers are doing is already punishable. It's just that we're not doing enough. They can walk free. In fact, they're getting a bus line offered by the VVD Secretary of State. A fine for illegals who may not be doing anything will not help. We need to do something about people who are already committing criminal offences. That's the appeal to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u85	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. People who do the difficult work for us in an asylum seekers' centre are entitled to a safe working environment. And people who happen to live near an asylum-seekers' centre have the right to safety on the streets. When the inspection asked whether the staff in an ebtl were adequately equipped for their task, the answer was: no. I think it is important to look back with the Secretary of State on how this can be done. How come we have created such an ebtl, but we have not sufficiently equipped the people who have to work there? Did we underestimate the problem? Is it too bureaucratic? Sometimes there is even a reference to the European Union for the reason that we cannot do what we want. Before we take all kinds of new measures, I think it would be a good idea to look back at how it could have come to this. A number of measures announced by the Secretary of State in yesterday's letter have the support of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance: boas, territorial restrictions, more staff. These are things that my group is in favour of. But I must say that sometimes I get a feeling of amazement. When I read that we should immediately call on the police when committing criminal offences, I think: yes, that's quite weedy. Didn't we? If we didn't, why not? Or when I read that from now on we are going to enforce house rules more strictly, I think: were they not enforced, didn't they? Or if I read that COA and the police are going to share information better in the future, I wonder: if we didn't, wouldn't that have been very obvious much earlier? Sometimes I wonder a little how we can all do these things now, and why we haven't done them in the past. Just a few more questions. In the letter we can read that we are now moving from a local to a more national approach. You could say, "Oh, didn't we already?" But that might be a little easy. What about international cooperation? Because we know that it is very often the word 'asylum shopping' that is going to be used very often in the case of troublemakers and criminal asylum seekers, and I believe that this morning the word 'asylum shopping' has already been said about people who first tried somewhere else and who may have ended up somewhere else in the Netherlands and eventually in the Netherlands. I therefore believe that the international exchange of information is crucial. A number of colleagues have already spoken about denying shelter to people who cause long-term nuisances. This can be temporary or even permanent, says the Secretary of State in the letter. The question is, of course, whether this is a solution. I don't think so, along with some of my colleagues. But perhaps the Secretary of State can explain why he thinks it is a solution to deny people the right of shelter, with all the risks of ending up in the streets illegally. What's the future like? In both ebtl's in Hoogeveen and Amsterdam, a pilot will be held, the results of which will be announced at the end of the year. So I'm assuming we're going to have some clarity over the next few months about how we're going to proceed. They're both half empty now, I understand. I'm not exactly sure that's good news, that we don't have enough troublemakers, or that it's bad news, that we don't do enough to deal with them. Maybe the Secretary of State can say something about that. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say a few words about the return. Colleagues have already spoken about this. The WODC's done some research. That says: it is likely that shorter reception and less return support have led to less demonstrable departure. Well, that's exactly what we don't want. Then the Secretary of State says: that less demonstrable departure may also be due to other things. Yes, there can be, there can be anything, but it makes sense that if you give less return support, there is less return. I think that's a pretty logical idea. So when you say you don't necessarily think that's the explanation, you have to explain why you think that. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State to do more on the issue of return support rather than less.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u87	I thought you were done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u88	That's right, Mr. Chairman. When I'm done, I'll just shut up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u89	I see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u90	Last but not least, I think that is an interesting point. For elsewhere, in one of the documents I have read, it also says that the chance of leaving is greater if foreign detention can be applied. So does GroenLinks agree that we need to explore all the possibilities to put people in detention more quickly, not only if a criminal offence has been committed, but also if they cause nuisance and perhaps avoid supervision? Shouldn't they be imprisoned more quickly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u91	Putting people in detention is one last... To be honest, I find it two totally incomparable. I thought there was something very positive coming up. I thought Mrs Becker was going to support my idea that we should do more in return support. That would be a good thing, because it is a positive measure, which is effective, at least the abolition or reduction of that measure leads to less return. Look, detention is in all cases a last resort. If people commit criminal offences or there is a risk of avoiding criminal proceedings, detention is a legitimate means. But if you don't, I think you should be very cautious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u92	But in my view, the restraint that is currently contained in the regulation is precisely one of the reasons why we cannot put people in jail if we can turn them off and why we have trouble in the street. That is why the Secretary of State also says: I want the Return Directive to be amended so that I can also put in place the burden of proof without committing a criminal offence. I would like GroenLinks to support that, because at the same time you say: I think it is important to explore measures to enable a faster return.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u93	I am in favour of exploring measures, but I am not from the school that thinks that, so to speak, all measures are permissible if they lead to a certain result. I don't think we agree on that. But I am, of course, willing to seriously consider any measure that can contribute to that objective. You are pleased with that; I can see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u94	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Mr Grothuizen, I shall suspend for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u95	I give Mr Jasper van Dijk... Oh no, I give the floor to Mr Grothuizen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u96	Unless Mr. Van Dijk wants it sooner. You took two seconds off my time, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u97	Well, I think you can...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u98	I'm gonna do my best, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. D66 wants us to be open in the Netherlands to people who have fled their country. Fortunately, there is a great deal of willingness to do so, but that support is being undermined by people who ask for our protection but then cause nuisance or commit criminal offences. The excesses we read about are very burdensome for the staff of asylum seekers' centres, for fellow residents, who have just come to the Netherlands because they are looking for security, and for neighborhood residents. Even though the group of people who behave badly is quite small, the behavior is obviously unacceptable. Mr. Chairman. I can therefore agree with the main thrust of the approach taken by the Secretary of State, although I still have a lot of questions about this. I'll start with the inspection report. I read that employees of an ebtl must have had HBO training, but that part does not have because there is insufficient supply. My question to the Secretary of State is: why is that? Are the conditions of employment offered by the Secretary of State attractive enough to get well-educated people? And what's he gonna do to solve that problem? Because I would think that the basis is that the right people are in the right place. Furthermore, it appears that drug and alcohol abuse is widespread. What possibilities do staff have to intervene, for example on the basis of the current rules? I would like an explanation on that point. The inspection report also shows that freedom-limiting measures were imposed, but that they were not enforced. That, in order to put it mildly, raises some surprise. I would like an explanation from the Secretary of State on that point. Mr. Chairman. How is it that there is not enough priority given to declarations made by staff? After all, we are talking about people with a public role. That's what we're supposed to do, isn't it? I am asking all this because I am surprised, as Mr Van Ojik said, that we are discussing all kinds of new measures, when it turns out that we are not implementing or not maintaining the existing measures. That's kind of weird. I think Mrs Kuik made the same point. Mr. Chairman. The letter from the Secretary of State from earlier this week also raises questions. And I am not even talking about the irritation, at least with me, that we could read the contents of the letter in De Telegraaf before we were sent to him as a Chamber. To be honest, I didn't think that was so neat. The Secretary of State wants to use boas, but it is not quite clear to me what the added value of this is, except that they can draw up a so-called atmosphere-pv. Or is it because there aren't enough police? I'd like an explanation from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. In that connection, I spoke to the mayor of Ter Apel this week about the police capacity. He said he must compete with mayors from the region when it comes to the deployment of police capacity, while of course he has the largest registration centre in the Netherlands within his municipal boundaries. I don't think that's entirely reasonable. What can the Secretary of State do to make this situation even? I'd like an explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u99	Yeah, I heard that noise, too. Doesn't D66 find it strange that there is no police station in the municipality of Westerwolde, which Ter Apel is part of?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u100	I don't know if the point is that you need a police station in a city or in Ter Apel. I can't judge all that well; I leave that to the people who know more about it. But I find it odd that if you are competing with 11, 12 or I don't know how many regional mayors are competing in a bin of 100 policemen, but happen to have a very special situation, like Ter Apel has, then you are in exactly the same competition without anyone saying: maybe your problem is something else than that of a neighborhood. That's more where I see the key. Hence my question to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u101	Totally. But then it is also up to us as a national parliament to say: hey, in the municipality of Westerwolde, in which Ter Apel lies, there is a disproportionate problem and there is a high level of insecurity; we are going to ensure sufficient police deployment in that area?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u102	It could be. In my opinion, the question is first of all: how can we use existing capacity in a good way and can we do better? If it turns out that this capacity is insufficient, I think you should scale up nationwide and see if there is any need for assistance. So I don't know if it's necessary to pull the check again to create more policemen. But I do think you should solve this problem, because I think the point of the mayor of Ter Apel is very reasonable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u103	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u104	Mr. Chairman. In the Secretary of State's letter we read a tough term: "chain Marine." But when you read through it, it turns out that it's actually someone who has to make sure that the different agencies work together well. That sounds very sensible to me, but not very cool. It is unclear what exactly this perseverance force, as it is so beautifully called, is made up of. I ask the Secretary of State if the Marine can actually overrule other parties. I would like to clarify what exactly the tasks and powers are. Mr. Chairman. The fact that we had a little debate on this subject has raised questions for me as well. For what does the Secretary of State base his expectation that this will really help and that we will not mainly shift the problem and shift the municipalities, as Mrs Van Toorenburg rightly said? I would like to receive an explanation, in which I would like to ask the Secretary of State to also comment on the WODC report, in which, of course, some critical notes are cracked on this particular point. Finally, Mr President. Like Mrs Kuik, I miss a passage on return policy in the letter. A large proportion of the people involved come from countries in North Africa that do not cooperate well with forced departure. What concrete steps does the Secretary of State take to tackle this problem, and what bottlenecks does he encounter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u105	A brief question from Mrs Becker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u106	Mr Groothuizen says that a number of measures in the letter sound tough, but that he wonders if they are so tough. I would like to ask him whether he is prepared to introduce all possible tough measures that we can take. I am talking about making it possible to put people who have not yet committed a criminal offence in prison more quickly, as well as criminalising illegality. Could you go into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u107	I am not in favour of tough measures; hence my sarcastic remarks about the term'marine'. I am in favour of measures that work. In my view, criminalisation of illegality means threatening a very large group of people, who are not necessarily the target group we are talking about here, with criminal prosecution. It can also take a very long time, while we do not want these people in the Netherlands to be in prison; we just want them to return. So I think it would be much wiser to invest in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u108	Finally, Mrs Becker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u109	We can discuss this for a long time, because I think it can work preventively if it is punishable in the Netherlands to just leave with unknown destination after you have heard that you have to go back, and to hang around here. I think that can work preventively. But I have not yet heard an answer to the question as to what Mr Groothuizen thinks about being able to put people in detention more quickly. Because that is also a problem: that we may have a view of return, but that we may not yet be able to secure people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u110	For these reasons, in my opinion, we agreed in the government agreement that the cabinet in Europe is committed to seeing what the possibilities are for this. I think that is wise, but I think it is the final piece of the approach. I think it starts with what Mr Van Rooijen rightly said: how can you support people when they return? Then the question is: if people cause nuisance, how do you deal with it? The back is then what you do with people who do not follow those rules and whether you can act more strictly against them. But I'd like to cut it up in those three stages. You know I'm from criminal law. In general, I am reluctant to think that criminal law is the solution to everything. That's a bit of the creative idea that I often taste on the VVD, but it's really incorrect. Mrs Van Toorenburg's proposal to look very closely at such an isd measure, for example, so that people who commit many minor crimes can be removed from society for a somewhat longer period of time, while in the meantime considering whether they could leave the country at least, so I understand the proposal a little bit more clever than generically on a very large group, a kind of measure that also affects people who are not affected by it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u111	Thank you, Mr. Groothuizen. I now give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u112	Mr. Chairman. There is a lot of insecurity in asylum seekers' centres: threats, intimidation, arson and you name it. As many as 60 reports received the FNV in two weeks. Staff are often at great risk. That is absolutely unacceptable. You keep your hands off our service providers. Aggression and violence come relatively often from unhindered asylum seekers from so-called safe countries. Mostly young men who have nothing to lose ruin it for the rest. The SP has often said that the government needs to do much more to bring these people back. They undermine the support for the reception of refugees. The problems are not limited to asylum-seekers' centres. There's a lot going on out there, too. Take the bus line at Ter Apel: there are also violence and intimidation, this time towards bus driver and passengers. The solution now is to use a separate bus line for these troublemakers. Of course, that's very nice for the passengers and the bus driver, but it's also a defeat. Bad behavior is rewarded with a separate bus line, possibly free as well. No one understands this anymore. Does the Secretary of State share that view? And then there's the many shoplifting by safe folks. The damage is not or hardly reimbursed. So there was the idea of a compensation fund, but that too is another defeat strategy, because if you steal, you should not exempt from a fine, but you should deal with it. So there's got to be more effort to track down the unsubs. I'd like a response. Then we'll go to the solutions. Very important: work on returning, because someone who is not entitled to asylum will have to leave. Now it's not happening enough. Procedures take a long time or countries of origin do not cooperate. You really need to negotiate harder with those countries, because safe people are taking advantage of this situation. They can kick unlimited mess, because they can't go back. That's crazy. These people have behaved themselves, especially against the staff. At least as important: ensure adequate security inside and outside the azc's. Cut down on the number of police stations was stupid. Residents complain about the lack of police deployment, for example in Westerwolde and Ter Apel. I'd like a response. In addition, there must be sufficient staff at the IND. What is the situation with regard to the implementation of my motion of 7 November to deal with exactly that? Also look at the recommendations of the FNV. Provide more permanent staff with the right powers and ensure a safe working environment. The Secretary of State sent a letter yesterday and wants more powers for boas. They're gonna have police duties now, too. Is that a solution or should there just be more police? The Secretary of State does not want to lock up asylum seekers, because Europe does not want to do so, but we do have the ebtl's, the so-called aso-azc's. These devices must be used to the maximum extent necessary to prevent nuisance. Is that happening now or are they still partially empty? And is there sufficient capacity or is that staff still unsafe? That goes for all azc's, of course. According to Mayor Heijmans van Weert, an asylum seeker must give his own permission to be placed in such an aso-azc. That sounds bizarre. He says: "Those who have to do so must cooperate with them themselves. So if he doesn't want to, they can't take him there. I'll give you a practical example. There was one refugee in Weert who had misbehaved several times. He had to go to Amsterdam. With the excuse he could go to Ajax, they got him on the bus. But when he realized that that was an excuse, he was back in Weert rather than the police car." I'd like a response. In addition, I agree that an ebtl, an aso-azc, is not intended for people with psychiatric disorders. There are other institutions for that. Do you share that opinion? Please respond to Amnesty's letter following the incident at the detention centre in Rotterdam. Amnesty calls for more monitoring and research. I'd like a response. What about denying reception by the COA? Does that mean someone's getting kicked out? Isn't that exactly going to lead to an increase in the nuisance? I'd like an explanation. Mr. Chairman. Finalizing: more commitment to return, more and well trained staff within the azc's, absolute security guarantee and more police deployment, especially in the municipalities with azc's, including the municipality of Westerwolde.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u113	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Asylum seekers from safe countries who commit crimes here and cause nuisance: few things affect your sense of justice as much as this. It's a group that really has extremely problematic behavior. Just yesterday, the Secretary of State announced additional measures to combat the problem of harassing criminal asylum seekers. Previously, he wrote that the policy is aimed at making better use of the possibilities of criminal law and public policy and the combination with foreign policy. Indeed, that seems very necessary, because we have so far heard too much "can't" and "can't." To this end, I would like to propose four. My first proposal. Do Articles 56 and 59 of the Aliens Act not offer enough possibilities to keep troublemakers in check or lock them up? Public order or national security are grounds for restricting the freedom of foreigners who are not legally resident or in proceedings. Article 59 provides ample opportunities for people in detention for expulsion, even if not all documents are available. I think it is right that the detention of aliens should only be used as an extreme means, but I believe that in this situation the use of this extreme means can be justified. Especially in this situation, I'd say. What exactly prevents the Secretary of State from applying this? My second proposal. Couldn't criminal law be better deployed? The inspection states that 70% of the population of the ebtls in Hoogeveen has judicial backgrounds. It ranges from assault and arson to aggravated assault and attempted murder. Why are they in an azc and not in a prison? Or why did they get out of there so quickly? Can the Secretary of State not place illegal persons or asylum seekers detained for a crime directly in detention after serving their sentence? That ambition is also enshrined in the coalition agreement. I know the Secretary of State is committed to this, but where are these attempts by the Secretary of State now? Is he going to try to forge a coalition in the EU to get this done? One remark is that some of the troublemakers belong in an establishment like Veldzicht rather than in the ebtl's. Shouldn't the deceased Algerian asylum seeker have been forced into custody because he was a threat to himself? I was surprised that the GP said that this was not the case and that he was willing and not incompetent. We also have the BOPZ Act, which can protect people from themselves or protect their environment. Why wasn't this man forced into the hospital? My third proposal. Is there no longer any use to be made of the remand? What possibilities does the Secretary of State see for this? Is the fact that someone has recent criminal antecents a circumstance under which someone can be taken into custody? Isn't that also an instrument that can be used, preferably in combination with quick justice? Can this not be used in a mandatory manner in the case of asylum seekers who commit crimes? Mr President, my fourth proposal. The Christian Union is convinced that we should not go in the direction of criminalising illegality, but I do see good reasons why, if someone has gone through an asylum procedure or has been tried out, it should be considered a criminal offence if the foreigners have committed crimes. That way, you could hold these people longer and keep them off the streets for longer. So let me be clear: we are not in favour of criminalising illegality, but we believe that you should be able to increase the penalty for asylum seekers who have committed a crime. I'd like to hear the Secretary of State's reaction on that point. The final part of the problem is, of course, the fact that we are unable to send people back to Algeria and Morocco. Why are countries like Germany capable of doing this? Finally, Mr President. The line of the Christian Union is clear: merciful to those who do, but very strict to those who break the law. I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State to our four proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u115	Thank you, Mr Voordewind. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u116	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like to start with two cases. They're made-up cases, so they don't really play. But I'd like to sketch them anyway, and then come to some questions. Suppose Roelof walks through the beautiful village of Veenendaal. He's not in his mood. Then he runs into someone and starts screaming. He's calling him a racist and all kinds of bad words. Then he stands in front of him threateningly, intimidates him and rips the phone out of his hands and kicks it out. What happens then? Roelof will not only be disbarred as a member of the SGP, but will also be dealt with by prosecutors and police. And rightly so. But imagine another case. An Albanian asylum seeker walks on the site of the azc and encounters someone whose face he doesn't like. He's starting to swear. He's calling him names for racist and all sorts of other scary words. He's gonna stand threateningly in front of the victim, rip his hands off the phone and kick the phone out. Then what happens to him?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u117	He's joining the SGP?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u118	He will not become a member of the SGP. He's not being disbarred either, because he's never been admitted as a member. But he's not gonna get involved with the police either. He also hardly has to deal with the D.A.'s office, at least in many cases. At best, he is now placed in a somewhat stricter azc in a number of situations for a few months. Mr. Chairman. There's no way to explain that. Everyone understands that such a difference in treatment, such a difference in dealing with unacceptable behaviour, is unjust. Every Dutchman, every asylum seeker and every stranger who is misbehaving in our country is entitled to correction or punishment. And if you're a guest here and you're about to misbehave, you're also gonna lose the right to a residence permit. Period. Only Albania in the second example, I would say. Madam President. We are trying to do everything we can to change their behaviour, but in many cases that simply does not work. A lot of these people are not or hardly open to behavior change, according to research. They remain a threat to the staff and to the fellow residents of the reception sites, but also to the inhabitants of the municipalities where these reception sites are located. I agree with those Members who are in favour of a tough approach on this point. I would like to put the following questions to the Secretary of State in response to his plans. Is it possible to extend the standard residence period for asylum seekers in the ebtls, i.e. those aso-azcs? I also had a question about the removal of liberty, but it has already been asked by the VVD. I agree with that. Then there's the point of filing a complaint and criminal prosecution. How often do azc's employees report threats and other criminal offences? Does the Secretary of State have any figures on that? What is being done to increase the willingness of retailers and other stakeholders outside the monitoring sites and the azc's? How many harassing asylum seekers have now been prosecuted and convicted? And my final question: how many of these oppressive asylum seekers have left the Netherlands by now? I assume these people always leave under surveillance and coercion. Mr President, first of all, let me leave it at that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u119	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u120	Mr. Chairman. You're just gonna be a shopkeeper and deal with thefts every day while you're trying to make a decent living. The 50PLUS Group gives the greatest possible support to these entrepreneurs. Unfortunately, the Secretary of State is using a special shuttle bus, which is already very often mentioned today, to bring in distressing asylum seekers. The staff of the additional guidance and monitoring locations is well trained, but should nevertheless call 112 three times pear week. All the support for these personnel, trying to save what's left to save. As a blow to the head, the mayor of Weert, who acts against these types of troublemakers, is considered a suspect by the D.A. This is a low point for our rule of law. Our society is being held up by a relatively small number of unopposed asylum seekers. During the debate on the Marrakesh Pact, the Secretary of State stated that the Pact would point countries of origin to their moral duty to take back nationals. It would be a diplomatic instrument against illegal migration. He promised to start conversations as soon as the pact was adopted. We would like to hear what the Secretary of State has achieved with the pact in hand to reduce illegal migration and to deport safe people. A discussion with Libya's ambassador showed that developments in that country may lead to a flow of 800,000 migrants. Libya's torn to shreds. Several countries take sides, but the Netherlands is highly regarded by all the parties fighting against each other. That is because the Dutch diplomat Adriaan Pelt once wrote the draft constitution for Libya. Can the Secretary of State use our special position to stop the coming flow of possibly 800,000 migrants? Back to the current extortionists. The report commissioned by the WODC states that international agreements stand in the way of effective measures. It concerns the EU Reception Directive and the EU Return Directive and the rulings of the European Court of Justice. The EU is making things difficult for us, and that is contrary to our sense of justice. But we also have national legislation, don't we? The violation of this is even mentioned in the Marrakesh Pact as a reason to detain asylum seekers. See Article 25. The 50PLUS Group wants a better understanding of the number of crimes committed by asylum seekers from safe countries. 50PLUS wants to know if they are being prosecuted and, if so, how they are being tried. Does the isd measure offer results for polyplayers? Then yesterday's letter. The Secretary of State wants to get and keep in touch with the troublemakers, because he takes serious facts and crimes into account. We welcome that. When the Secretary of State thinks of more supervision and enforcement, does he also think of GPS ankle bands for notorious nuisances? Madam President. Our asylum system is leaking. It is being abused at the expense of the support of genuine refugees, and we regret that. Unsatisfied asylum seekers from safe countries abuse the time for criminal conduct. 50PLUS wants to stop this and looks for possibilities to realize this. We'd like to give you one suggestion. Is it possible to move the asylum procedure to the country of origin? Asylum seekers from safe countries could apply for asylum through the Dutch embassy. What does the Secretary of State think of that idea? I'd like a response. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u121	Thank you, Mr. Krol. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Hiddema on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u122	Madam President. We welcome the latest letter from the Secretary of State on 17 April. The umpteenth display of powerlessness. The Secretary of State is completely stuck, because he cannot get the criminal asylum seekers away. Well, if it's up to us, it's a beep. There's a simple solution to this. However, we welcome the receipt of this letter, because once again the Secretary of State is deeply concerned about the behaviour of these asylum seekers. To sum up, it shouldn't get any crazier, what a scandal. Attention should be paid to the staff in the asylum-seekers' centres and the middle classes in the places at stake. And all the attention will be paid to appropriate measures, which means that the Secretary of State, with the hat in his hand, will please try to pick a few perks in Europe. The outcome is certain. For the rest, the letter is powerless prose. There will be new measures. It's about boas. There's gonna be some mood-pvs. You think, "my God, who makes that up?" What kind of cerebral behavior is taking place there? Unbelievable. They're going to the mall under supervision now. See, that's really the whole moral bankruptcy of asylum policy in a nutshell: under the guidance of a state official, the asylum seeker goes to the shelves to protect him from possibly emerging thieves. How far do you have to let it go? Under supervision to the mall. There's gonna be a chain Marine. I thought, "Well, now you're gonna have it." Then your thoughts go back to the Dam. He's an iron-eater, actually. Where are they gonna get it? When you read it, finally no official jargon, you think: well, that's someone who's a warrior. But what is it, in fact? It is an oil man who has to coordinate within the organisations so that they can see the individual asylum seeker in a joint context. Where did you get that? Another paper tiger. But you have to do something. What's going on? Within this integrated approach, the Secretary of State says, the following actions are being taken. So, this doesn't happen now, is my question. The group of nuisances must come into view and be kept in view. Where did you get that? There's gotta be some licks. Current applications for residence should be dealt with as soon as possible. The idea! The aim must be to allow for the removal as soon as possible of harassing asylum seekers. A good thought, too. There must be an optimal connection between law and criminal law. Yeah. The criminal justice chain should be able to be as effective as possible. Six measures: six open doors are kicked in with the courage of despair. No man gets wiser, but there are again papers filled with good intentions. There's nothing you can do with it. Now, let's get this straight. Then the solution also comes around the corner. It wasn't wrong at the detention center in Rotterdam. It's been a hell of a situation in January. The security guards were so threatened that there had to be national deployment of support troops. What happened there? I'll report it to you: threat, destruction and assault. Those are all criminal offences that are subject to remand. Degradation has even been subject to the provisional detention regime in order to apply provisional detention to such types, systematic destroyers in such centres. Now, here's what I want to know. The Secretary of State pays great attention to the serious disorder. "I want to compliment all employees," he writes. That's very nice, but what kind of relief did he offer the employees? How many criminal cases have been brought to justice on the basis of this war situation? Which prosecutor has applied for remand in respect of one of those aggressive, destructive, oppressive types? It's possible. It's so simple. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to instruct the D.A. to request remand in this case. It's always destruction. It's always a threat and it's always even discrimination. Well, they must have gone a long way there. People learn fast there. But on all these facts, there's pre-trial custody. And as far as I know, it's never applied. That is exactly what we need to get away from asylum seekers who do not want to cooperate in extradition. It's as simple as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u123	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u124	One more piece of advice and one more question. Will the Secretary of State please have a debate with Mrs. Rhodia Maas? Mrs. Rhodia Maas is former director of the Return and Departure Service. She says that expulsion to countries that refuse is not a problem at all if the asylum seeker himself cooperates in his return. Then I tell you, he doesn't do that until he has a choice. The judge can put a person in remand as soon as he finds that the person does not cooperate with his return, because that is a ground for remand. If someone doesn't want to go back, it can only mean one thing, namely disaster here...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u125	Thank you. Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u126	So then someone's gonna sit around and he's gonna have to choose: am I gonna stay locked up or am I gonna go back? Mrs Maas says that this does not prove to be a problem in practice, because then they will leave voluntarily. That's why my advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u127	Mr Jasper van Dijk has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u128	In order to improve the safety of staff within asylum seekers' centres, it is important that there is sufficient staff. There's been far too long cuts on the IND. I have tabled a motion to take on more people, so that the procedures go faster and there will be more clarity. Why did Forum for Democracy vote against it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u129	Because the Forum for Democracy, the longer we walk around here, finds that pumping around money, buckets of money, new legislation and staff are not the solution. If you want to help the staff, they need to see that the guys who are chasing them end up locked up. That's what they hear in Morocco and Algeria. Then they think: in the Netherlands you should not be. The man who's under lock and key only thinks one thing: I'd rather be gone, if I had to go to Morocco, than stay here. That helps. That'll help the staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u130	Well, Mr. Jasper van Dijk...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u131	All very interesting and good, and I am going to listen very carefully to the answers of the Secretary of State to Mr Hiddema's questions. But the staff also say: I am here all too often alone; there are too few colleagues who can protect me when I am threatened or intimidated. This simply requires more people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u132	It could be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u133	You had a chance to support that. Forum didn't do that. Well, then it's gonna be a bit of an empty shell.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u134	Perhaps the staff has become so disheartened by the current policy that they think: I do not feel safe with those people, because I get more and more fighting with them, but no one intervenes and these guys are not locked up; then only two colleagues are involved. I wouldn't be surprised if this is the reason for the staff shortage. So there's another way, very simple. There is the Secretary of State, who must tell the officers in the regions: now it is over and you are moving forward for all these facts. These people are not criminally immune. They're treated like a group and pumped around, but you have to treat them like individuals. That's what happens to you, to me and to every citizen. They are criminally responsible for their own actions. And then you pick them up. Simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u135	I believe that Mr Hiddema is saying exactly the same thing I have heard Mr Groothuizen and myself say, namely: why not do what can already be done? But Mr Hiddema also knows that those who have committed a simple abuse or destroyed something will not receive substantial punishments. Mr Hiddema knows that too. So I wonder what other idea he has than that they might get a week's sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u136	Get a week's sentence? If a judge sees that a nuisance bomber who has been hovering past malls is also aggressive in the facility and is committing destruction, which includes pre-trial detention, then it is simple. A judge then thinks: that man must leave because he is incorrigible, and I have the solution, because I am applying for remand. Ready. You can do that with assault. You didn't know? There's a restraining order on simple assault.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u137	Mr Hiddema may be a bit derogatory as if others didn't know, but the fact is that Mr Hiddema knows like no other that people do not get that pretrial detention at all. That's in all the...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u138	Because it's not asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u139	Can I finish? I'd like to finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u140	Well, that matters to the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u141	All right, finish your sentence, Mrs. Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have received several reports, including from the Secretary of State, which state that the police do try but ultimately get no results. Even people who rape, or worse, rape, we can barely get behind bars. Does Mr Hiddema not agree with me that, in addition to the possibilities offered by the Code of Criminal Law, which are always lacking in its effect, we should also consider how they can be secured at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u143	If Mrs Van Toorenburg thinks true... What horror am I being initiated into? It scares the hell out of me. Isn't the rapist here in custody in this country? Well, I didn't know that. But if you have that idea, you can abandon all hope that someday an troublesome asylum seeker will end up behind bars. Fortunately, the reality is different and can be, since the prosecutor does what he is appointed for, relieves the staff and treats them equally with their individual liability, as is the case for every Dutch citizen. And don't group up on the bus and pump around a lot of places. You just have to punish people for what they do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u144	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u145	And if they rape, that's totally bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u146	Thank you, Mr. Hiddema. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-6.u147	I'm suspending the meeting for half an hour. Then we have the arrangement of work first and then the Secretary of State answers the questions asked by the Members of Parliament in the first term.
