ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u1	I'm glad you're all back with us. Box-K is filling up, too. Why don't you sit down and make yourself at home? We are ready for the Socialist Party's contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u2	In that block we will first listen to Mr Hijink. He has a thirteen-minute speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u3	Ten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u4	Ten in the first term. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u5	The chair is still in the Slootweg stand. We're gonna need about a meter off, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. It took two years, but now it's time. I mention the long waiting lists in the ggz, the elderly who are in the hospital unnecessarily, the domestic help being cut, the suffocating bureaucracy for caregivers and the growing power of health insurers. It took a while, but now Minister De Jonge also sees that this is no longer the case. He himself says that this healthcare system is too complicated and we need to change it. That's what he said last Sunday at Buitenhof. My question is, what exactly does that mean? Are there proposals now to remove market forces from care? Are we gonna get the health insurance companies out of this and give the care back to the caregivers and patients? Are the profits finally gonna go down? I like to hear it. I would also like to hear from Minister Bruins whether he agrees with the words of his colleague De Jonge, because Minister Bruins is the same repetitive robot in every debate for the time being. He insists that the healthcare system is not under discussion. Is the agreement of the government that this healthcare system, this market system, is now sacred at last overboard? Mr. Chairman. With the abolition of the former health insurance fund, health insurance companies have been given free rein in the health care sector, says nurse Boonstra to us. This nurse is right, of course. Look at what's happening in Twente right now. If you are insured at Zilveren Kruis, you can no longer go to Twente hospitals this year. Many patients will have to travel to Deventer or even Zwolle. That's like 40 minutes or an hour of travel sometimes. What's that supposed to mean? That is my question to the cabinet. This care system with market forces would strengthen freedom of choice and improve care. Patients are not objects that you can park anywhere else like cars, said the deeply indignant Professor Girbes. How can freedom of choice be reversed for these patients and care taken in trusted hospitals? Is the Cabinet prepared to give the General Court access to the insurers so that we can better understand the role that insurers play in the current system? Mr. Chairman. "I see the same everywhere: people who have chosen with their hearts for this profession, but who are no longer able to deliver what clients need so much." That's what Wendy writes to us. Wendy's a nurse and she works in disability care. "There is a lack of stability, security and security, which leads to less quality of life and a lot of frustration for both clients and employees. Please make this business attractive again to new and existing generations. Return their safety and security to clients by guaranteeing permanent employees on groups that can and will be engaged, equipped and passionate." Mr. Chairman. This is an emotional appeal that has touched me, because here it expresses the love with which hundreds of thousands of caregivers in our country do their job. But this is also a cry for help, about how employees in disability care run double shifts to get the schedules around. You don't want to abandon your residents, so you take one more step, and you take one more step, and one more step, until you trip and you don't make it. What does this cabinet have to offer to disabled people? What do you say to someone like Wendy when she sees colleagues fall over? We have talked so many times here about additional resources, including for disability care. Extra money, so that the toughest group, the people with the toughest handicap, have more money to develop, and not just get basic care, but just that little bit extra. These people don't come on tractors or with cranes to the Malieveld. We don't see them, but they're here. Who's gonna stand up for them when the money's bouncing against the plinths, but they're not gonna get the extra care they need? This also applies, of course, to the large deficits that exist in the municipalities. In youth care and in the Wmo, the deficits are huge. We get reports of that almost every day. The SP wants the government to close those deficits. I'll ask the cabinet if it's willing to do that. Mr. Chairman. The growing shortage of colleagues is perhaps the biggest problem that concerns us at the moment. Minister De Jonge sent a letter two weeks ago to 3,000 healthcare workers who left care earlier. "He wants the deposit money back on his old bottles." That was one of the comments on Facebook I read. That is a very painful observation. It's how caregivers feel. Just a few years ago, tens of thousands of them were discarded under the policies of Rutte and Asscher. Even now hundreds of people are losing their jobs in hospitals in Drenthe and Groningen. Co-workers in youth care aren't sure about their jobs. It's good that everything is being done to get caregivers back. But does this minister understand that caregivers feel that they have become a play ball in the political game that is being played here? The SP believes that caregivers deserve better. They do their work with heart and soul and should not have to stop for a decent reward. What is the Minister going to do to give caregivers more future? Is there room in those choke contracts for the hospitals for a 5% salary increase? Is the cabinet willing to do more? Mr. Chairman. We must cherish our hundreds of thousands of caregivers. Meanwhile, Minister Bruins came up with a proposal, the Law BIG II, that made people very angry. In this budget, even EUR 5 million is earmarked for the implementation of this law, the law that nobody wants and which has already been repealed. Make sure that the EUR 5 million is spent in a different way; sin of the money; against the will of the nurses, says Mr Bakker to us. He's right, of course. That is absolutely right. Can we not spend that money much better to support, for example, former nurses who want to return to health care? Isn't it smarter that we don't send them a note, but we make a serious offer, and we pay for their training and re-registration if they need it? Does the government support the SP's proposal on this? Mr. Chairman. We have often talked here about the quality of nursing home care. I'd like to read to you what Yvonne sent us about that. "My father had to be temporarily admitted to a nursing home. The staff there really run out of their feet to provide care to all clients, but at night there is one caretaker running around for up to three departments. When my father pressed the bell at night because he had to go to the bathroom, it was logical that the employee was late and my father had already wet my bed. Very annoying for my father but also very annoying for the employee who therefore had even more work. The next night, my father was fitted with a tube so he had to pee, because they couldn't make it in time at night. So my father's self-reliance was not stimulated but demoted." I'll ask Minister De Jonge to respond to this story. Does he recognize the stories of the nurses and nurses who have to do the work in the night with too few people? Does he think this kind of story motivates you to come work in care? What does he do to ensure that there are sufficient staff for the night shifts? Mr. Chairman. I was just talking to Mr Slootweg: the SP has put forward a proposal to release 40 million extra for care for the elderly next year. EUR 40 million that will allow thousands of elderly people who are currently forced to stay at home to get a place. Does the Minister support this proposal? Mr. Chairman. I have worked in debt relief, where I noticed that in many cases the cost of care is an important part of the debt incurred. Often these costs are not proportionate to people's income, Ali writes to us. This is also apparent from the government's own figures. One earners with a modal income of about €36.000 lose almost 20% of their income on care costs. For high incomes, people who earn more than a ton, that's only 10%. My question to the cabinet is: what exactly is fair about that? Many people are very worried about paying the care costs. The own risk is a big problem for a lot of people. Because if you are chronically ill or if you have a disability, you already know on the first day of the new year that you have lost that whole risk. Or look at the monthly care premium. Over €200 per month is lost if you live with someone. The SP wants to make the care fair and that is why we are building a National Health Fund. We want the healthcare premium to be set at €0 per month and its own risk to be eliminated. If we then pay the costs of the care from the taxes, three quarters of the Dutch are better off, for example, the Centraal Planbureau has passed on for us. Especially those with a middle income or a lower income will make a lot of progress if we do this. So you can really make sure that the strongest shoulders carry the heaviest loads. The good news is that a large part of the Dutch support this proposal. We've had that investigated. A majority of voters of SP, PvdA, GroenLinks, Party for Animals, 50PLUS, Forum for Democracy and PVV support this plan. Also among CDA voters, the number of supporters is higher than the number of opponents, according to Maurice de Hond's research that we have had done. That's hopeful. That offers a lot of perspective. Now that there is a majority in favour of this plan for solidarity, my final question to the cabinet is: when and how are you going to implement it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u6	Thank you. There is a question from Mr Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u7	That was a fine speech by Mr Hijink. When asking what we should do in a moment, he is very much concerned about the structure, but how does he look at the desire of a lot of people to stay at home and the call that will have to be made on family carers? Does he think that more is needed in this area too? 'Cause I didn't hear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u8	We have always argued that there should be more support for carers. I have also stressed in other debates how much pressure there is, especially on people aged 65 to 75, for example. They often have to take care of their elderly parents, sometimes they are supposed to take care of their grandchildren and sometimes they also have a partner to take care of in part. I think the pressure on that group is very high. Much more attention should be paid to this, both from the municipalities and from the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u9	In his example, Mr Hijink mentions mainly those who have ended working life, but how does he view it when, for example, we ask the Economic and Social Council what it is going to mean if an increasing number of workers should also carry out informal care tasks? Would he be willing to look into that? Would he support it if we asked the ESC for an opinion stating what that would mean for a company or organisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u10	Yes, that seems very good to me, because I think everyone can imagine that this problem is only going to get bigger in the coming years. There will be fewer people who will have to take care of more elderly people. So it seems to me very good that we should be giving advice from all sides on how to do that cleverly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u11	Mr. Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u12	The beauty of our healthcare system in the Netherlands is that everyone has access to the same care and that we finance it with each other, also looking at what someone can finance. In addition to the nominal premium, we also finance it through taxes and the income-dependent contribution. A family with a minimum wage contributes about €4,000 per year, while people with two-time modal income contribute more than €12,000 per year. So there's already a stabbing in who pays what. Although people are paying more now, there is a very nice system behind which everyone has the same access. What would be the effect of the SP plan whereby people will pay more from one and a half to two times more modal, as the calculations of the Central Planning Bureau show? People are going to pay much more, because the SP increases income taxes by almost 17 billion euros. That's unprecedented. What does that do with solidarity in our system?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u13	Perhaps Mr Veldman should tell the whole story. In contrast to a tax increase in income tax, there is, of course, a huge reduction in the premiums that people themselves have lost every month. That's quite an important addition, Mr. Veldman. If you think that all this should not go to income tax, let us discuss how we are going to ask for more from wealth tax or from profit tax for multinationals. I am always very open to that. If you say "the pressure on individual citizens is now too great; we should also ask from companies and others, then I say: be my guest. Then let's talk about that. Let's get a few billion from there. Then the burden on citizens can be reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u14	That was clearly not an answer to the question, so let me rephrase the question. Does the SP want Mr. Hijink back to the system we used to have? Does he want to go back to an old-fashioned health insurance fund and an insurance scheme for people who could be insured privately? In that system, people who were then in the sickness fund were more expensive than they are today, and people who were able to insure themselves privately could go to better care than in the current system in which everyone can receive the same care. Is that what the SP wants back to? Because that's actually what you do with your system to finance everything through income tax. This means that people are declining from one and a half to two times. They're going down a lot. I think that puts pressure on the solidarity of our system, the beautiful system that we now have. Does the SP want to go back to the old system of a health insurance fund, with the health insurance bill, and a system with private insured persons who are better off and get better care? Do you want that distinction again?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u15	Solidarity was only really under pressure when the VVD, unfortunately together with the Labour Party, tried to introduce an income-dependent care premium in the previous cabinet. Then, Mr. Veldman, the hardest hit on the middle incomes. How did that happen? Because the VVD and then the PvdA were afraid to ask anything extra from the really extremely high incomes. That contribution was then capped at a certain income, which meant that all the pressure and tax money had to come from the middle incomes. They were really crushed under your proposal. You can see that this is not the case in this proposal: three-quarters of the Dutch are making progress. What we want to go to is not back where we came from. We want a national health fund without private insurance; a national health fund in which everyone is assured of the care he needs, with fair premiums and a fair payment from taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u16	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u17	That is a nice round proposal and that is not going back to where we were.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u18	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u19	The division you are referring to is, by the way, in the current system, because a lot of people do not have the option of choosing a health care provider at all. Take, for example, the example I mentioned in Twente. If you're with a certain insurance company, they'll say, "Come back in January." That's your system, Mr. Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u20	As far as this specific SP proposal is concerned, I think it is appropriate to point out that, for example, the CPB has not included higher charges, including for middle incomes, for whole normal families. But I actually have another question to ask Mr Hijink, because it is not the case that this cabinet does nothing about care costs for people on a narrow scholarship or for chronically ill people. This cabinet, this coalition, for example, increases the healthcare allowance. That's very important for people with a narrow scholarship. I would therefore like to ask Mr Hijink whether he recognizes that people who are now receiving a health care allowance have less health care costs than 15 years ago in the health insurance system. Does Mr. Hijink recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u21	In principle, Mr Raemakers is already making a very strange assumption. I don't blame the government for not doing anything. There are still more things that we are in favour of, for example what is happening in the WMO. We think it is a good idea that our own contribution should be reduced; I have always said that this is sensible. So it's not like I think everything this cabinet does sucks. That doesn't apply to everything. What was your second question? You are right: the lowest incomes currently have the care allowance. Where are the hardest hits? In those groups. So you're already below average, with an income between €30,000 and €40,000. That is where the hardest hits are now, because that group does not receive a care allowance but pays a high monthly premium and can lose that full own risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u22	I believe that more money is being spent on this health care allowance. I would like to ask the SP spokesperson, Mr Hijink, why the SP is not committed to raising the threshold for the care allowance rather than turning the whole system upside down, and the CPB also states that it cannot say exactly what the burden on middle incomes is. So you are going to rebuild a whole system, with all the associated risks. We also do not know exactly what consequences this has in the whole field of care, while you may actually achieve the same through another way. So why don't you encourage the Cabinet to continue along this right path?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u23	Because we want to get rid of the money pumping. On the one hand, a lot of people pull money out of their pockets on a monthly basis through a premium, which you then have to compensate again with a care allowance. This care allowance is ending very quickly again, which means that in this system the middle-incomes pay the most heavy burdens. The system is therefore unfair and far too bureaucratic. We are addressing both issues with this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u24	There is now a whole debate on the financing of the system, but I would like to ask Mr Hijink how he sees future affordability in general, because this is how it is financed. We are concerned that, in order to maintain solidarity, you must keep the system totally affordable and do what you have to do to control the cost of care. I haven't heard much about that from Mr. Hijink, including about innovation at that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u25	Because it's not just about innovation. The affordability of care is a very large part of the system we have. This system is full of commercial incentives that invite more care. See how it works in hospitals: the more you treat, the more money you get. If I get paid for the number of words I say here, we will have a long debate. No one has to want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u26	We shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u27	I sometimes think that the Minister is also financed in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u28	Yeah, I get that feeling sometimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u29	'Cause it always takes a long time. But that's not the incentive you should want here and not in the care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u30	But tomorrow it's gonna work the other way around. Then he's gonna pay us as he uses more words. Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u31	I fully agree that in the current system there are rather perverse incentives. We, as CDA, would like to look at that as well. But even so, in the debate and Mr Hijink's input, I miss an answer to the question: what is innovation going to do to ensure that care is available everywhere?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u32	We've talked about it here a lot. We are in favour of all kinds of forms that make it easier to work in healthcare, whether it is about technology or other means. It goes from automatic roasting to machines that can take over people's work, smart tools or devices that make it easier for people to lift. Everything you have to do when that makes working in care better and easier. But that is really different from the question: who pays the health care bill? We were just talking about that, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u33	I think Mr Hijink is right that we may be able to take a few more steps in the current funding towards healthcare providers, because the number of treatments is indeed being financed. And yes, if you get money to do something, you're gonna do something more so you get more money. That's true. But the beauty of it is that the SP does acknowledge that finance is an incentive. Then what does your system do with its own risk, the financial incentive that we are aware of? That own risk means that if people do not really need care and therefore do not have to ask the question of care, they do not ask it, because they know that this is at the expense of their own risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u34	The own risk now causes unnecessary talk about money, including in the doctor's office. Family doctors tell us the same thing. A ten-minute consultation is about money half the time. Will my treatment be reimbursed or not? What exactly does my health care provider do and what doesn't he do? It is not for nothing that we always say that our own risk is a fine for being sick. A lot of people have to make these costs and they don't have the choice at all. And it also makes sure that just those people you want them to go to the doctor don't go, that they don't pick up their medication because they can't pay the bill and that they don't follow a doctor's advice to go to a specialist, when they should. But the general practitioner is free for them, so they visit them, but the specialist is not, because that is at his own risk. So it works exactly the other way around, Mr. Veldman. Its own risk ensures that people do not use necessary care, which makes you much more expensive in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u35	I would like to refer Mr Hijink to an article that I believe was in NRC today, about an example of smart care. It was about diagnostics that are placed with the general practitioner from the hospital, for example, there can also be scans made to ensure that this referral is not made if it is not necessary. And what does it turn out to be? Eight out of ten referrals are not really necessary. That conversation in the GP's room, is it really necessary for you to go to a specialist? So it's not that bad at all. A financial incentive will therefore help to achieve this. I am pleased to see that the SP does realise that financial incentives help. It would be a good thing if you maintained the financial incentive that we have to avoid the question of care as much as possible where it can be prevented.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u36	No, I don't want that financial incentive to be there, because I think the GP is the one who is perfectly capable of determining whether or not someone should be referred. And what Mr Veldman says, of course, is already happening. The office talks about whether or not someone should go to the hospital. Of course, that's the crux; that's what people come for. So you don't need that whole incentive for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u37	Thank you. Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u38	Mr. Chairman. We live in a special time. On the one hand, it cracks into care: shortages of staff, shortages of adequate care for the homeless, elderly and people in the ggz, hospitals being dismantled, closed wards, people who have to continue to travel for their care, and care institutions fearing their future, where bankruptcies are constantly lurking. On the other hand, there's a lot of money. We have billions left over from the state budget. Why is it not invested in health care where it is needed? And why don't we just listen to the people who need care themselves, what their wishes are? I spoke to Mrs. Van Luin from Bilthoven about the recording stops in hospitals. On October 15, she felt sick and realized that something was going on. Her GP's been on the phone for over an hour for an emergency exam. Antonius Nieuwegein Hospital: a stop. The UMC in Utrecht: a stop. The Diaconessenhuis in Utrecht: a stop. Eventually she can go to the Meander in Amersfoort where she is later tossed. It is a shame that her GP is taken out of the running hours for more than an hour, she finds, while he also had an evening shift at night. The question to the Minister is: how do we solve this? How do we protect our general practitioners that we should be careful about? Mrs. W. from Oostburg tells us: "Cancer caused me to lose my nose and now I have an artificial nose. The first two artists I got reimbursed without any problems, the third with problems because CZ has no contract with the company that makes the prosthetic. Only 75% would be reimbursed, and they even said that this is a luxury problem. Luxury? I can't go out on the street without a nose, can I? When I suggested that they look at them in the office with my own eyes, I quickly got an apology. Now with the fourth artificial nose, it says in the letter that this is the last time that this will be fully reimbursed. I now appear to have to travel 320 kilometers to Rotterdam, back and forth, while my doctor is in Ghent, 120 kilometers away." If they can't take that into account, I'll ask the cabinet. What is the Minister's response to Mrs W.'s complaint? Doctors of the world tell us the following. "Mr. H. from Goeree-Overflakkee is a job seeker over 60 years of age who is on welfare. He's got bad teeth. He has a collective supplementary health insurance and special assistance may be requested for costs not covered by the insurance. The teeth should be considered lost and due to jaw problems the dentist treats him with a cliff bite. The insurance reimburses this, but he still gets an account of €800, 25% of the total cost, because the dentist does not have a contract with the insurer. Special assistance shall be rejected by the municipality." What does the Minister think of this? What about the free choice of doctors, especially if there are waiting lists and few dentists? The citizen wants to be able to choose his trusted dentist or handler himself. Is the message that the Cabinet is preparing legislation to further reduce or abolish the reimbursement rate for non-contractors? Shouldn't the dentist, being necessary care, just be in the basic package, also for adults? If you turn more revenue, you'll make more profit. That's a system that doesn't fit the care. However, this is still the reality of the specialists working through a medical-specialist company. What does the Minister think of this and of the fact that what a specialist under that construction really deserves is shrouded in thick fog? Last Friday we received a letter from the Minister informing us that the bill is being withdrawn by hospitals. Then why do we allow medical-specialist companies to make a big profit on themselves? How high are the incomes that the free-established specialists grant themselves? Half of the medical-specialist companies have not filed annual accounts for 2017 and only three medical-specialist companies are completely transparent. The income of specialists is cryptically defined as costs, outsourced work and other external costs. Care vision speaks about incomes that are about a ton of a tonne, you hear the good... are higher than the average salary of a hospital driver that is valued at €166,000. A specialist in paid employment is also a tonne lower. The salary of these specialists is an expensive and irresponsible gift from former Minister Schippers. Is the Minister prepared to put an end to this? Thousands of specialists still work turnover-driven and that is detrimental to trust in care. Let all doctors, just like nurses, work as an employed person. Six thousand times €100,000 is 600 million euros. 600 million is being taken from care unnecessarily and unjustly. What can't we all do with that money? If we put this into concrete hospital care, the waiting lists, the patient stops and the closing of departments could be avoided for financial reasons and the collective bargaining requirements that the nurses now impose could be met. Why don't you put that specialist's salary down against the salary of maternity nurse Astrid? She tells me: "I have worked in maternity care for twenty years. I'm responsible for mother and baby. On the night of 11 to 12 June 2018, I fought for the life of a newborn baby in a home delivery. I just earn €9.45 per hour due to unpaid waiting days and too low job scale." What is the Minister going to do to save the profession of maternity care? What is the whole cabinet's response to this rightful cry from Astrid? I also received a penetrating letter from the specialists Sonke, Haanen and Blank of the Antoni van Leeuwenhoek. They write to us: "New medicines in oncology improve the prospects for patients with cancer, but the cost of use is enormous without exception." Unfortunately, negotiations with manufacturers and market forces have not led to a relevant reduction in the price of medicinal products. There are increasing initiatives from the professional groups to do studies on how these expensive medicines can be used equally effectively but at a much lower dose or with a much shorter treatment duration. It goes without saying that the pharmaceutical industry is not motivated to finance these studies which limit their turnover. In addition, bodies such as ZonMw and KW Cancer Control do not have sufficient resources and financial resources to finance such studies. That's what's threatening a stalemate. We therefore call for the creation of a so-called revolving fund in which savings from studies on the efficient use of medicinal products benefit further studies for the same purpose. I have also tabled an amendment on this. Is the Minister now open to such a research fund of medicines, as the SP wants and by the way other parties, such as the PvdA and GroenLinks, want in this Chamber? I'll come back to the cost savings on heavy paracetamol, vitamins and minerals. Would the Minister like to reverse this austerity? Now it has become clear that the saving of 40 million wishful thinking was. Research shows that many more expensive medicines are now being prescribed, which may be more dangerous and are still being reimbursed, and that patients are also dispensing with necessary vitamins. Then the alarming news that the number of homeless in the Netherlands has doubled to 40,000 people. It is an unworthy finding for the Netherlands. Everyone deserves a roof over their heads. The Federation of Reception and the Regional Institute for Protected and Accompanied Living advocate that the savings of 700 million on guidance on the transfer of AWBZ to the municipalities in 2015 be reversed. The SP has also tabled an amendment on this. Minister De Jonge says that the money is not the problem, as he lets out once and again. Then let him take action, I would say. I'd like a response. Finally. It's good to take stock after two years of government. What have the Ministers and the Secretary of State actually achieved? Nice action plans and PR shows, but when we hear the stories of the patients and caregivers, far too little. And that in 2019 with a government budget surplus of 14 billion euros. How do the rulers with that science look back on that themselves? Shouldn't we have a completely different view of care? No more reasoning from the money but from the wishes and needs of patients. No longer reason from the market and mistrust, but from cooperation and trust.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u39	I understand the way Mr Van Gerven looks at this cabinet, also from his role as an opposition. Looking at the things that have gone well recently, what things would he like to specifically name?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u40	I would like to say to Mrs Laan: go ahead. What can I do for you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u41	If you look back at the past two years with your critical SP glasses, where you have spoken to all kinds of people, whatever your party is known for, nothing will come and you will return the question to me. Then we'll have a cup of coffee in a minute and I'll call you a few. But now in the plenary, I have the question to ask you: none?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u42	I really appreciate all those people who work in care. They must operate in a care system full of bureaucracy, in which profit incentives are the primary driving force, in which one institution competes with the other institution. I was at the promotions for a better salary. When I see how, despite all the opposition within this system, nurses remain extremely motivated to do their job, I say: hat off for those people. What I do not understand is that this cabinet is full of money, but apparently it is blind to the problems that concern it and refuses to invest in its solution, while the money lies ahead of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u43	Thank you. Then we will listen to the two contributions of the D66 group. The first speaker of D66 is Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u44	I'm just gonna put the speaker chair up. That's not gonna go away from my speaking time, is it? I see this will take 20 seconds. Mr. Chairman. In the first budget discussion of these directors, I spoke about the agenda of their ministers: from systems to people. Because the battle for people had to be made now. As we have seen as Chambers, the Minister chooses to make this battle through action programmes. He does that for the nurse, for grandma, for the parent of a handicapped child; they must notice, he often says. The question is, almost exactly halfway through the cabinet period: do they notice? Mr. Chairman. I'm an optimist. I see that this cabinet is very active and is also taking a number of targeted measures to help people. Think of combating the accumulation of costs for chronically ill or investment in customer support. But I'm also a realist. The battle for people is still not sufficiently made. The administrative burden increases precisely in the Cer and the staff shortage continues to be severe. The more strange it is that a quarter of the people working in the vvt indicate that they want and can work more, but that the part-time factor has remained the same for nine years. Also it is still difficult to get an appropriate tool, we recently saw at Kassa. I happened to be on the air myself, and we all saw the minister send a tweet just before the broadcast. Then came the Minister's message that he's going to set up an action team. But that's not enough. D66 wants a realisation plan to come up. Many agreements have been made at administrative level and many investigations have been carried out. We believe it is important that these agreements be implemented, that regional procurement be encouraged and that there should be a national framework, so that everyone knows where they stand: who is responsible for what and what are the normal times for delivery? People often don't know what they're up to now. I would like to reflect on these specific points. Mr. Chairman. Last month we were also discussing the progress of the Langer programme at home with the Minister. This is necessary, because support at home often does not fit in sufficiently with people's needs. Prevention and innovation are still insufficient. If things really don't work out at home, there'd be a place in a nursing home, but we see things go wrong there too. The waiting lists are rising, as has already been pointed out by a number of colleagues. More and more people are waiting for a place in a nursing home. The waiting lists have not been taken since the cabinet took office. Unfortunately, the elderly sometimes stay in the hospital unjustly. There are too many obstacles to new home initiatives between home and nursing home. Fortunately, the outcome of the debate was that the Minister would proceed with more urgency. And that's what's needed. In view of the doubling of the number of 90-plussers in 2040 speed is very important. My question to the Minister is therefore what he is going to do or what he is going to do, so that the people concerned are going to notice that right now. Again, we're halfway through, we've got two more years. Are the current programmes and lines of action sufficient to reverse the trend? How does the Minister intend to leave care behind? What is the Minister's response to the major challenges? How, for example, can we ensure that care is financially sustainable? The Minister has indicated that we have heard in Buitenhof that he wants more direction in the region, but what is that? What's the region? What about democratic legitimacy, for example? Isn't it the minister who needs to show more direction? Mr. Chairman. Then it's about the carers. If we want people to stay home longer, as long as they want and can, then carers and volunteers are invaluable. Those carers deserve our appreciation, but they also deserve our support. We see from several studies that a lot of carers threaten to fall or fall over. Fortunately, many municipalities offer good care support, but unfortunately it also turns out that this care support is only shown at a time when it is too late. As is often the case, prevention is more important than cure. If we are to achieve this, we need a proactive approach. I'm thinking of a care center myself. I have made a proposal; the amendment will be tabled in a moment. I'm open to suggestions for a better name.We've just brainstormed about that during the break too, but I'm now calling it "mantle care information box." It must be about information about where you can go as a caregiver, about the possibilities that there are but also about what it is to be a caregiver and what you have to pay attention to. A lot of people don't know they're carers. This family care information box must of course be filled in locally, but the Empire can encourage this. I'd like to hear from the Minister what he thinks of the idea of D66. Mr. Chairman. Then about the social approach dementia. Working across bulkheads, working beyond domain; we talk about it more often. I have tabled a motion on this earlier, which meant that we would actually do so in 2018 when it comes to the social approach to dementia. Those are the pilots of Anne-Mei The. We see that these pilots lead to better quality care but also lower costs. That combination is, of course, very valuable, looking at the challenges we face. But despite the fine words and the fact that we want to cross domain and hopefully also work, we see that funding for these pilots is at risk. That is why I am tabling an amendment today to allow this fantastic initiative to continue. Mr. Chairman. Then about the personal budget. Next year it is exactly 25 years since Minister Borst, together with Secretary of State Terpstra, managed to steer the personal budget, the pgb, through the Chamber. This is a milestone for this important instrument that gives people their own direction and it is a good time to look at the future of the instrument. There are pilots on the integral pgb and the family pgb, but how can we further promote this and really make it land? How can we roll it out nationwide? And there is no pgb in the Caribbean Netherlands, for example. Are the Minister and the Secretary of State prepared to look into this and inform the Chamber about it? I think there's a lot more to be done in this anniversary year. Why not a group budget, I'll ask the minister. In the case of parental and residential initiatives, a group-based budget could provide a solution, especially for the share of the combined costs. Saves a lot of linework. Mr. Chairman. Just like every other year, I'd like to talk about drugs. D66 is pleased that after 40 years we are finally getting experience in regulating weed cultivation. I would therefore like the Minister to give me the undertaking that in this cabinet period it will be decided when the experiment actually starts. I would also like to know what the outcome of the motions on medicinal cannabis is. Then about the ergotherapy. The ergotherapist plays an important role in making people live longer at home. Last year I asked the Minister whether this important profession is being used enough, precisely in the context of living longer at home. The Minister would investigate that with the Healthcare Institute, but I found the implementation of the motion rather disappointing. "There's little research, there's little complaining, so I'm not doing anything." I would actually like to ask the Minister to follow the advice of the Healthcare Institute by examining, in consultation with Ergotherapy Netherlands, what activities should be carried out, so that the Healthcare Institute can give advice on a possible broader or different design of the insured performance ergotherapy. Mr. Chairman. I want to end up with the homeless and homeless. It has been said, and I fully share that: how we deal with people with disabilities in a country, says something about our civilisation. I think the same goes for how we deal with our homeless and homeless. We can see that's not going well. We see that more and more people are homeless, have no home and sometimes do not get proper guidance and support. This group is also becoming more diverse. The Secretary of State in the previous period has previously made a commitment that there will also be customer support for this group. Additional resources have also been made available for this in the coalition agreement. I ask the Secretary of State what the state of play is now. My colleague Antje Diertens is here; she is on top of this subject and has also asked me to make this issue explicit. There will be a plan from the Secretary of State this year, but I hope he will be able to indicate in this great debate how he is going to turn the tide. I do ask, however, how will rural accessibility be guaranteed in a time of tightness? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u45	One more question from Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u46	I have a question about the accessibility of contraception for all women. The Labour Party believes that all contraception for all women and men should be compensated in the basic package. D66 doesn't think so. However, Mr Raemakers did say recently in a debate that he felt that women should have the freedom to choose for themselves what a good form of contraception is for them. Now, a month ago, Doctors of the World did a representative study. This shows, among other things, that 27% of women in the lowest income group do not use contraception or would prefer to use other contraception but do not do so for financial reasons. I'll give you the whole investigation. Could that be a reason for D66 to reconsider her position and support my proposal to compensate everyone for contraception from the basic package?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u47	I'd appreciate it if I could actually read that research. Mr Raemakers and I have also tabled a motion not so long ago on an investigation specifically aimed at those vulnerable women, whether access to contraception is sufficient for them. Indeed, we are not in favour of including it in the package for everyone. By the way, exceptions have already been made: up to 21 years old; at the time when people cannot pay there are possibilities through the municipality. But I do share the concern and I also hope that we can find each other in it. Because when it comes to vulnerable women, these women deserve our attention and we also need to know exactly what is happening. Hence the motion, in which we called on the Minister to look specifically at it, of course also in consultation with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u48	Doctors of the world have already done the research. We have also asked the Minister a number of questions about contraception. Actually, the Department of VWS knows shockingly little, but Doctors of the World did that research. So I would like to say to Mrs Bergkamp: we do not have to wait for anything, here are the data, then let us put together a proposal to at least include it for vulnerable men and women. I will also put forward a proposal to do it for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u49	I hope Mrs Ploumen will be patient, we have just tabled that motion, to see what the outcome is. If the implementation of this motion shows that there are major problems, looking at the vulnerable women, then I am prepared to look together with Mrs Ploumen at what is a good and feasible solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u50	Beautiful. You have announced two amendments. We haven't received it yet. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u51	That's right. I see my policy support. They're now filed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u52	By now, it's pressed the send button.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u53	Sure, it hit the send button.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u54	Mrs. Ellemeet gets inspired right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u55	Not because of this, but because of an earlier part of Mrs Bergkamp's input. She also mentioned social trials for people with dementia. I think that is a good example of vulnerable elderly people who sometimes get stuck in the system. We have built a very complicated system, just for that group of vulnerable elderly people. The Minister indicated earlier that we should look again at what we should change to the health care laws to make it better for the elderly. That's great, but we can see that this group is already stuck in the system. I also asked the Minister: what can you do now to better serve this group of vulnerable elderly people? Mrs Bergkamp mentions these social trials. That is one example, but there are, of course, countless examples to give. Does Mrs Bergkamp share my call to the Minister to see what he can do now, along with the care field, to provide better care for those vulnerable elderly people?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u56	I can keep a very long story, but I can also just give an answer, namely: yes. We have tabled an amendment specifically aimed at those social trials, because that is concrete. I know that my colleague from GroenLinks is in favour of this. It's such a shame if that knowledge is lost. So it is also an appeal to the Minister to look at all the projects we are doing now to see what the results are. How can we preserve that knowledge and ultimately roll it out nationwide? If there are opportunities for cross-domain work, looking at the vulnerable elderly, I am in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u57	It's good to hear that. We now see that older people are sometimes passed from one law to another. That is also because there are different financial interests. As far as I am concerned, we should say together: care for vulnerable elderly people is paramount and the system follows. I believe that we can take further steps, for the next two years. So I'm glad Mrs Bergkamp shares that call.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u58	Sure, I started my argument with "systems to people" and with the remark that that blow to people really needs to be made now, so I'm sure we can find each other there. I now give the floor to my colleague Rens Raemakers for the cure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u59	I thought that was the chair's job, but "the lunatics have tasks over the asylum," I'll say. Well, I'd be happy to give Mr. Raemakers the floor now. Yeah, while I'm here...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u60	Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor. Thank you for that. Mr. Chairman. Day in, day out, more than 1 million healthcare workers in our country are keen to ensure that everyone in the Netherlands receives the best possible care. Because of them and because of the way we organized the care together, we are always on the international stage. The care in our country is of high quality, accessible and solidarity. However, we also face a major challenge. Because because we can do more and more, and because we are getting older, that's very nice and very positive. This cabinet period is why we have put in place the right care in the right place. As a first step, the basic agreements were a good start. But as far as D66 is concerned, it will now have to be delivered. We expect everyone to take responsibility for this. There needs to be more cooperation, beyond the areas of care. We need to look beyond our own interest and our own wallet. Unfortunately, this cooperation is still far from flawless, as can be seen from the available money for transformation. These funds are intended to finance the relocation, prevention and replacement of hospital care, but they are barely spent, according to the figures in this budget. Of course, we're not getting anywhere like this. Therefore, we would like to hear from Minister Bruins what he is going to do so that these transformation funds will be spent. I'd like a response. My input today is about putting the patient at the centre. For D66, the right care does not stop in the right place when redesigning the care. The point is that we are really going to look more closely at care from the patient, the patient as an individual. How and where can it best be helped? Today, therefore, I come up with some proposals to provide more support for care from the patient. A first key element of patient-focused care is transparency. For each patient, it must be transparent to which healthcare provider he or she is best placed to deal with a particular condition. It is also important that a patient from his or her doctor is then presented with all the options. Then they can decide together which treatment is most suitable for the patient and conclude together that it is best not to treat, to treat elsewhere etc. There is still a world to be won in this area. D66 therefore, together with the VVD, Mr Veldman, wants a programme to be launched in the area of joint decision-making, for patients with complex diseases such as cancer. This programme could serve as a pilot for joint decision-making in all areas of care and thus give an impetus to more patient-oriented care. We have tabled an amendment together for this programme. I am also curious about what the Minister is prepared to do in the coming year to encourage joint decision-making. How does he intend to make a concrete contribution to more transparent care? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. As every year, good cancer care for D66 is an important issue. This year I will explain two groups in particular, where beautiful patient-oriented initiatives exist now, but may be at risk. They're under pressure. First of all, the youngest survivors of child cancer. For them there is a separate kind of outpatient clinic, the LATER-poli. There is special attention to the late effects of child cancer treatment. Such late health problems, which may arise years later, are for example second tumors, problems with the heart, but also neurological problems or psychosocial problems. As many as 75% of people who have had cancer as a child will have health problems again later on. This LATER care is aimed at early detection of such problems, so that they do not worsen, so that it can be prevented from getting worse. Unfortunately, from Utrecht and from Nijmegen we have understood that there is a bottleneck here, that health insurance companies find it difficult to say whether they want to continue to reimburse this very innovative care in the future. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he would like to discuss this with the health insurers. Indeed, if this LATER care is not contracted or not contracted sufficiently, the survivors of child cancer will soon be in the cold. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, for the older cancer patients, the same is at risk. We have another special form of cancer care. I've drawn attention to that before. That's about young adults and adolescents with cancer, the so-called AYAs, so we cut them off. They face age-specific problems, including training, work, relationships and fertility. Their specific problems also require specific individual attention. For this, a number of university hospitals run projects in which care and a piece of psychosocial support and guidance are successfully combined. It is about so-called AYA care teams, in which an AYA nurse specialist is always involved. So that's really specialist. Earlier this year I tabled a motion for a resolution on this subject, but the long-term financial guarantee has still not been settled. D66 believes that, like the Christian Union, I can tell you a very important point and we would like to hear from the Minister how he will also guarantee this innovative concern for the future. We are considering a motion on this matter. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to dwell today on the situation of diabetic patients. They are currently eager to await the research of the Healthcare Institute into the Flash glucose sensor. For many diabetic patients, such a sensor could greatly reduce the number of blood shots. It's really annoying to have to stick your finger all the time. Besides that Flash glucose sensor, there's also a continuous glucose sensor. It is read completely automatically and also has an alarm function, which, for example, makes it much easier to prevent hospital emergency admissions. Earlier, the Minister has already promised to ask the Healthcare Institute to include this sensor in his research, unless this would delay the other research. However, because it had indeed led to delays, as the Minister wrote in a letter, he did not do so. I am in favour of a separate study on the wider reimbursement of the continuous glucose sensor, so that the added value of that sensor, all the costs and benefits and also the potential health benefits for the patients are carefully considered, without slowing down the other ongoing study. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he is still prepared to ask the Healthcare Institute to conduct such a loose investigation. Mr. Chairman. I'm going to the final point of my contribution, female genital mutilation. In the Netherlands, as many as 41,000 women live who have undergone a form of genital mutilation. That is a very serious violation of the physical integrity of women. The consequences should therefore be minimised as far as possible. D66 therefore wants recovery operations to be compensated if they are safe and effective. Unfortunately, there is still insufficient clarity about this in science. Therefore, good clinical trials are needed in the short term. That is why D66, together with Mrs Ploumen of the Labour Party, proposes that, as the draft guidance board on genital mutilation will soon be presented to the Healthcare Institute, the money for the clinical trial be released. We can't wait any longer. The women affected in our country will get the clarity they deserve as soon as possible. We have tabled this amendment so that this group of women too will soon be assured of the best care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u61	I'll come back to the point of care in the right place. Mr Raemakers is right to say that things are not fast enough. He mentions the transformation fees that are not used enough. I recognize that. That's what I hear. Another point is the cooperation of health insurers in the region. There's a very nice piece in the NRC today about mobile policies. Medical specialists go into the neighborhood and work with general practitioners to prevent people from entering the hospital unnecessarily. That is a wonderful example of care in the right place. But then we also read that there are again health insurers who do not participate in this project. In the end, we can only achieve this movement if the health insurance companies join together in such beautiful initiatives. That's gonna keep wringing. Does Mr Raemakers agree with GroenLinks that health insurers should work together in this and therefore follow the policy of the largest health insurance company in a region or in a district?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u62	What I at least agree with Mrs Ellemeet is the observation that there is a real need for change in the field of care. It is not about existing healthcare infrastructures in hospitals, as we call them. It's about helping the patient in the best place. This fine initiative that is in the NRC I'm going to read that in a moment. I think that insurers should look beyond what is now available. They need to start working on these innovative projects. Moreover, my experience is that health insurers are willing to do so. But if Mrs Ellemeet has other signals about this, then I think it is right that we should put it here. I couldn't agree more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u63	Some health care providers also encourage this. Only, of course, it will only work if everyone in a region does so. That's exactly where it goes wrong. Some of them are excited, but the rest are still in doubt. Yeah, then you can't get the funding all the way. I believe that we should agree with the health insurance companies that this will only work if they all follow that line in a region. Follow each other in policy. It's called congruent behavior. There are also agreements on this, but we can see that things are still failing in practice. Insurance companies want this on paper, but we see that it is not yet possible in practice. Now is the time, also for this minister, to say: this really has to come about, health insurance companies you keep your end of the bargain.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u64	I understand very well what Mrs Ellemeet means. Working together is always good, but I don't want this to delay. In some regions, a smaller health insurance company is engaged in very innovative policies. If that small health insurance company is obliged to follow a large health insurance company that is perhaps a little less renewing, I would regret that. That would be the precondition for me. It really has to lead to innovation and it doesn't necessarily have to be the biggest health insurance company. Let's see which health insurance company is most innovative and what other health insurance companies can learn from it. That's how I'd like to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u65	Mr Raemakers and I share the birthplace. We both happened to be visiting the same maternity care organisation in Gulpen, South Limburg, separately from each other. There is a serious shortage of caregivers, not only in South Limburg but throughout the country. This has to do with a number of things, but one of the problems is funding: insurers pay too little. They pay €50 for an hour of maternity care, and in Gulpen they say: you don't get a plumber for that. 'Cause those babysitters are up 24/7, too. So there is an urgent need for more financial support there. There is an investigation of the NZa, which hopefully will only have consequences in 2021. I'm about to propose a bridge by 2020. Would Mr Raemakers be kind enough to take a look at this and recommend it with me to the cabinet? I say right away, it's 30 million. That seems a lot, but the whole budget we are discussing here today is about more than 80 billion. And this is about the future of babies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u66	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u67	I agree with you that the importance of this issue is very great. Childcare can do very good work in the first days, that's fantastic. In terms of prevention, maternity care also works, if you see problems with a very small baby. It's super important work. We agree on that. But I'm a politician, I'm not doing that investigation the NZa is doing right now. So I find it difficult to say as a politician: that must be this rate. I therefore ask the Minister why the investigation will not be conducted until 2021, if I understand Mrs Ploumen correctly. Why can't that be clarified sooner? What can we do in the meantime? But I find it difficult to judge when you mention amounts. But we share the importance of this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u68	It is good that Mr. Raemakers, with me, hastens the cabinet and the NZa. Perhaps then, together, we can ask Secretary of State Blokhuis, who, after all, deals with prevention, how he looks at this approach. Nursers sometimes come to families where they have no crib and no clothes, while the fridge is empty. Nursers have an important signaling function there. Instead of rigging up new programmes that are paid for by municipalities, perhaps we would do better to listen better to the babysitters. I think we can ask the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u69	We can also ask Minister De Jonge, because you can see in a number of municipalities that they are in front of the social neighbourhood teams, before a child is born, even if they need youth care and if there are perhaps debts in the family. Perhaps it is good to ask all three leaders how we can handle this well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u70	That's gonna cause a little coordination problem. We're just gonna start Thursday, aren't we? The Secretary of State says there may be three different answers. Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u71	They all speak with one mouth. I had another question about innovation. D66 often talks about innovative concepts that we need to support. What does D66 think of the plan that is being supported by professors who are researching drugs for the treatment of cancer, for example at the Anthony of Leeuwenhoek Hospital, to set up a self-sustaining innovative research fund for medicines, to keep medicines affordable?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u72	I was particularly interested when Mr Van Gerven spoke about this half an hour ago in his speech. But about the problem that he points out: I'm not so sure that a pharmaceutical wouldn't opt for further development. Because if a pharmaceutical company sees that a cheaper drug can be produced that will help patients better, it would be a good pharmaceutical if he were to investigate it and try to market it. Then let's see if that can help patients. If there are signs that a pharmaceutical does not do so, because he thinks that this is at the expense of his profits, then I would find it undesirable with Mr Van Gerven. But from this position, I can't judge what that's like for that pharmaceutical. There are good ones, and there may also be those that are a little more profit-driven. We want to deal with them as D66. We think they should show what a medicine costs and whether it can't be cheaper. Be a little more transparent about that. But in general terms saying that this solution is for all pharmaceutical products, I think it is just a step too far. But I'd like to take a look at this with Mr. Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u73	I have tabled an amendment on this subject, which is very quickly paid back if we succeed, for example, in administering expensive cancer medicines at a lower dose and shorter rate, while their effectiveness is the same or better and with fewer side effects, and therefore cheaper. This is in the interests of the patient and society. But it is a fact that the negotiations with manufacturers and the market forces do not lead to the price we find real, so we will also have to look for new ways. Hence my idea of this research fund, because it is of course a fact that pharmaceutical manufacturers do not like to see their turnover reduced. They're all profit-driven. This demand is very strong among researchers who conduct research into medicines. We are talking about cancer medicines, but also about existing older medicines that could be used in a different way, in which industry simply has no interest or interest. It would also strengthen the research work done in the Netherlands by specialists and others in order to achieve good care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u74	Let me be clear about what we agree on. D66 believes that the revenue model of pharmaceuticals should become much more transparent. We also believe that prices for expensive medicines should be reduced in a number of cases. But I want to make sure we sit on the investigator's chair. If a particular medicine can be cheaper in a certain way and can help patients better, then it must of course be properly investigated through phase III and phase IV. We, as politicians, cannot take over this research function. It must therefore be more transparent and prices reduced, but the pharmaceutical industry then deals with the examination of concrete treatments, not politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u75	Very good. Thank you. Mrs. Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u76	Mr. Chairman. How could that happen? Why doesn't the government do anything? In the neighborhood where I live, we were upset and angry by the sudden bankruptcy of our hospital, the Slotervaart hospital. In the OLVG West, where many of us ended up after that closure, the nurses are now wondering how they can stand empty-handed when there is enough money. They're just asking for a decent salary and less work pressure. Whoever listens to me asked me an angry physiotherapist who was forced on me by the health insurance company and felt powerless. Mr. Chairman. That is, of course, the question. Who's that about, anyway? Who can we call to account when babysitters have to support three young families in one day? Who's gonna intervene if the emergency services aren't reachable for everyone? As far as the Labour Party is concerned, that is a political responsibility. Now it's the health insurance companies who have the power, but they're not here in box K. Mr. Chairman. With 17 million Dutch people we share something beautiful. We share our healthcare system, our system, a system built on us, on all of us, on our solidarity. People in Kerkrade are in solidarity with the people in Emmen, young people are in solidarity with old people, healthy with sick. It's a big good, because everyone has to be sure of good care. We pay for that with each other and for each other. But the solidarity we bring together is being undermined. Undermined because the cabinet keeps looking at someone else in case of trouble. Undermining because Big Pharma is going for profit maximization. Undermined because the people who work in care are underpaid and overworked. Undermined because not everyone feels heard and seen, think of women and people of color who notice that drugs work much less well for them, or chronically ill, people with disabilities, people without roof over their heads. Undermined because one in five people sometimes do not call on care because they think it is too expensive. Mr. Chairman. Does the cabinet agree with me that we should finally be directed to ensure that care for everyone in the Netherlands is accessible and affordable everywhere and at all times? "The concern is a quote from Minister De Jonge and I am very happy to say it to him after "needs more cooperation and less market." I would like to ask Minister Bruins how he is going to achieve this in curative care. When can we expect proposals for this? For we have long known that market forces do not work in primary care and in complex and urgent care. But the minister actually sits back and points to the Dutch Healthcare Authority, which supervises health insurers and healthcare providers. But that authority itself finds that its instructions to improve care seem to be too non-committal and they write that themselves, I do not think that "she will be more explicit'. That sounds a little like "Mama's not mad, Mommy's sad." But you can't do that, can you? Isn't there an authority to act if things don't go well? According to medical specialists, there are almost 1,400 unnecessary operations that are still being carried out, as Mrs van den Berg mentioned. They're just reimbursed by the health insurance companies, and we don't hear about the NZa. Hundreds of millions are so wasted. Along which bar does the NZa actually place the insurers? How do they monitor the content of the contracts with healthcare providers? The Labour Party wants the NZa to make an industry report on those health insurers, so that we get a better idea of their role and their added value within the current system. Will the Minister give that clue to the NZa? Then there's the pile-up of care costs. The Labour Party, GroenLinks and the SP propose to eliminate their own risk in two steps. Is the cabinet prepared to do so? And if not, why not? Mr. Chairman. Care doesn't work for everyone as well as it should. Take women. Research shows that responding better to gender differences leads to more efficient care and a lot of health benefits. The Labour Party proposes to create a fund co-financed by the pharmaceutical industry in which manufacturers are obliged to pay a percentage of their turnover for research into differences in the effects of medicines on men and women. In this way, over- or under-treatment can be prevented. At 1%, we could do miracles by now. We also propose that the subsidy of research proposals should only be paid if the gender differences are involved. Later this year we will present an own-initiative paper on this subject. For now, I would like to receive a response to these proposals. Mr. Chairman. Every woman must be able to choose the best contraception for her without money being involved. That is why the Labour Party is calling for all contraception to be included in the basic package. It is a mystery to my group why this is not regarded as medically necessary care and why this would not now be possible according to the existing system. What was that about when the pill was in the package? How is it arranged for the reimbursement of the pill for women up to 21 years old? I would like to receive a proposal from the Minister on how this can be arranged. Mr. Chairman. With GroenLinks and the SP we made 63 proposals to curb the power of Big Pharma. Fortunately, the Minister is now expressing himself at extremely high prices, but is he also prepared to oblige manufacturers to be open about price building? And does he intend to change the law so that he can give the ACM an indication to do more active research into the pharmaceutical industry? Mr. Chairman. About another industry, the cigarette industry. In the Netherlands, the highest profit rates in the pharmaceutical industry are directly followed by the cigarette industry and the beverage industry. It's a nice lineup. The e-cigarette is dangerous, according to research in the United States. Dutch doctors also say that. We therefore call for the accelerated introduction of neutral packaging for e-cigarettes and a ban on e-cigarette propaganda sites. I would very much like to hear whether the Secretary of State agrees with us. Mr. Chairman. The workers in care are always there for us. They shouldn't have any strikes at all. They won't let us down. This cabinet will let them down while the money is there. My colleague John Kerstens will say more about that in a moment. I would like to draw attention to two groups in which women work in particular, which work very hard. I'll start with the babysitters. There's a shortage. They're underpaid. There is an investigation into the rates, but it is only in 2021 that we will hopefully be able to reap the benefits. The Labour Party would like a transitional arrangement for 2020. Does the Minister agree with us? We'd like a commitment to that. Finally, the doctors' assistants. They're in trouble. Patient safety is at risk, they say themselves. Work pressure's high. There's not much time to train interns. For this reason, the Labour Party would like to ask the Cabinet to release EUR 25 million for next year in order to alleviate the need in the regions where the need is highest. If the doctors themselves say that patient safety is at stake, there is only one thing we can do, and that is to take them seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u77	Thank you. Then there is Mr Kerstens of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u78	Mr. Chairman. Two and a half weeks ago, I was on a Friday night shift with Marijke, a nurse at the Rijnstate hospital in Arnhem. That was impressive in one word, from the hectic on such an ER on a Friday night to the calmness, the professionalism of the people who work there and who have to wait on such a Friday night or and when they can eat a sandwich. When they think at 9:00 p.m., they have to jump up again because a victim of a serious car accident is brought in. Raised in hospital clothes I stood everywhere with my nose on top, from the triage to the CT scan, from the well-known boy who swallowed a penny to............................................................................................. I watched over the shoulders of professionals who didn't turn their hands around for anything and who despite the crowds, because it was busy taking the time to talk to me about the content of the profession and what they're running into: a collective agreement that never comes, too few colleagues, too much workload, and yes, the Law BIG II also passed for a while. My insight into the work of Marijke and her colleagues motivates me to work even harder for all those hard workers in care. Whatever they do and wherever they do their work, they are the cork on which good care in the Netherlands drives. That cork is threatening to go under. The people in the care sector are in danger of going under, due to too much work pressure, too few colleagues, too many rules and too little appreciation, also in their pockets. This has consequences for all of us, clients and patients first: waiting lists that become longer and care that cannot be provided. This brings the certainty of good care close to when you need it. That should actually be a matter of course to put pressure on................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. While the money flies against the plinths so left and right, every year the cabinet lets billions that are meant to be cared for go back to the treasury and while our directors are busy with action and talk programmes there is a risk of a health infarct. The people in the care department call it that, and I repeat it after them. And the cabinet is sticking patches on the wrong leg. Since a labour market plan was presented, more people leave care than ever before, there are more vacancies than ever before and they are harder to fill than ever before. Since the concept of "scraping sessions" was introduced, people in care complain more than ever before about rules that get in their way. Since high is given up on the money that is available to the people in care and it is suggested that they actually have nothing to complain about, the labour unrest in the sector is higher than ever before. And you have to do your best to put the people in care against you in the armor, to make sure that people in care take action and resist, because they always put the client and the patient first, even at their expense. When the people in the care go out into the street, the water is not up to their lips; then they are heading down. So I say to the Minister and the Secretary of State again: stand up for your people; make extra money for the people in care. It's possible, and it has to be. It's very necessary. We need them more than ever before. I also ask our directors to distance themselves once and for all from employers, for example hospitals, who then stand up for their rights as their people, intimidate people and try to shut them up. Teach these employers a lesson in good employership, I ask our directors, because we all have our mouths full of that. Mr. Chairman. The system's jammed. It squeaks and cracks on all sides, with employees who go under the pressure of work, with people who need care but don't get it, with institutions and healthcare providers who are in big financial trouble and with municipalities that can't make ends meet. Something must be done, and it must be done quickly. No more action plans, but action. Not pointing at others anymore, but taking control of themselves. Don't say that municipalities should provide care and support anyway if you know that they can't, but help those municipalities. Mr. Chairman. Before this budget, we would be given an impetus to a vision of tomorrow's care. Before this budget we would be able to understand the evolution of the number ofzzp'ers in care, the numbers, the costs involved and their effects. And before this budget, we would be discussing the bill in the newspaper very often announced to deal with health cowboys, which, in any case, still comes from the previous cabinet. It didn't happen, despite questions, pressing from the Chamber and promises from the Cabinet. Of course you can't. It shows little sense of urgency. Mr. Chairman. I am, of course, looking forward to this fundamental discussion about tomorrow's concern, also because at least one of the ministers has already mentioned a number of issues that the Labour Party is addressing: less market forces, more cooperation and looking at the system itself. It's coming our way. But today I am mainly talking about today's concern, about today's concerns, about problems that are now crying out for a solution. I have a number of proposals for this. I invite the cabinet and the coalition parties to make this work together with our work. Make concrete agreements, including numbers and deadlines, with municipalities about sufficient living space for older people who want to stay home longer. Pay extra money for family care, for the case manager dementia and the practical supporter of the elderly. They all meet a huge need, but for the case manager and the practical supporter, the scale-up remains and is stuck with health insurers, who sometimes and sometimes do not start their pilot project. Make sure that insurers make it possible for the specialist in old-age medicine to be able to work in the neighborhood even if it is another person who is incredibly in need. Make sure that the money left by health insurance companies, for example in the neighbourhood care last year was that almost 200 million euros of money will not disappear in their pockets, but will become visibly available for care at home. Draw attention to the evaluation of the introduction of the subscription rate in the Wmo. We're already hearing that it's leading to a massive influx. And we all know who will suffer from this, namely the most vulnerable inhabitants in the municipalities. Make it possible for providers of care to provide their people with their collective agreements, including the agreed wage increase, to actually pay out by means of firm agreements on their transfer into the tariffs and by better supervision of them. Pay more attention to the vulnerable position of older migrants living at home. For example, facilitate the organisation NOOM to play a greater role in this. Finally, pack care cowboys in, for example, the Wmo including protected and supervised living, preferably in the new Act joining healthcare providers and otherwise at least with a concrete and recognizable plan of approach. Municipalities are now asking for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u79	Thank you. One more question from Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u80	The purpose of this debate is to make this clear in my contribution to the Minister's vision, looking at the major challenges and the bottlenecks of today. It seems as if my colleague from the PvdA fully understands what the Minister means. He says that the Minister is moving in a direction that we also want, namely more cooperation, less market forces. I think it is very general concepts, as well as: more freedom, better climate. I'm just going to mention something that I hope everyone agrees with. What do you think the Minister means by less market forces and more cooperation? What can't be in the system that you think should be? So I'm just checking to see if you're really on the same page and understands exactly what the Minister means.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u81	Mrs Bergkamp and I may have a slightly different view of the purpose of this debate. We are discussing next year's budget, 2020. I have also particularly mentioned the problems in today's care. I have indicated that I like to talk and discuss the future of care, because it is important that we do so with each other. We had a commitment that there would be an impetus for a vision before the budget debate. We have heard the King say in the Throne speech that that start will come, but then in the summer of 2020. I have indicated that one of the directors has spoken about this concern in the future. That's the U.S. Secretary. In doing so, he has used a number of terms that appeal to me and to the Labour Party. In previous debates, I also told him that he should explain it, because we have an image of it, but is that also consistent with his image? When we talk about more cooperation and less market forces, that is exactly what those terms say. There is better cooperation across domains. I've heard you say that before. Put the patient, the client, at the center and don't let him snow under all kinds of complicated rules that we've ever invented with all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u82	Yes, if you ask such a broad question, you will also receive a very broad answer, Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u83	Yeah, but still, I think he was almost ready to give a real answer to the question. If I interpret it in such a way that the PvdA also wants to know whether the two visions are compatible, then I would like to ask the Minister through my colleague from the PvdA: what is meant by less market forces and more cooperation? Because I think everyone agrees with cross-domain cooperation. So it is also important to give meaning to the concepts, so that people also know what is going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u84	So that question goes to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u85	Yes, that question goes to the Minister, who, by the way, has said through the King that we will have a vision at the beginning of summer 2020. I am talking today and tomorrow mainly about the problems in today's care. I would like to make a number of specific proposals, and I hope that they will receive sufficient support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u86	Thank you. Then Mrs. Dik-Faber. And then the great moment of Mrs Van Esch's maiden speech arrived.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There's a present here, and it's still exciting for who that is. Mr. Chairman. May I present my niece Jannet. She's been in care for 30 years, and she's now a nursing specialist in a hospital somewhere in the middle of the country. If you get the diagnosis of cancer, your world will be turned upside down. The doctor will tell you what the diagnosis is and what the treatment options are, but then all the other questions will come up. Who do I tell that I have cancer, and how do I tell it? How do I handle my work? Who's gonna take care of the kids when I go through treatment? Then it's good that there are people like my niece Jannet, with a listening ear. She wrote a book about it, which is very recognizable for many people, patients and caregivers. Patients, as well as doctors and nurses, must comply within systems. We have lost sight of the human dimension. The Christian Union wants us to speak with people in healthcare instead of people. We want to go to care with attention, attention to the wishes of patients, clients and healthcare professionals. They need to be able to talk about how their care is organised. This calls for health insurers who, as cooperatives, are again at the service of their members, the insured. Not so long ago, we also passed a bill on this issue in this Chamber. This requires care organisations that see client councils not as necessary evil, but as an opportunity to improve care. This calls for hospitals that appreciate nurses who do valuable work but also want to bear responsibility. And this calls for a healthcare sector that brings residents into important changes in the regional care landscape. Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union wants more control of care. Control for patients, for example, means that decision-making together becomes the norm for every doctor. Now it is part of the training courses, but I do not think it gets the attention it deserves, not even the doctors who are already working. Together decision-making leads to lower costs, better care and better quality of life. Is the Minister prepared to examine how joint decision-making can be better anchored in training and further training? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. I come to a group of patients who are not that big, but who do have to do with an intensive care question; those are the chronic Lyme patients. In order to give people with chronic Lyme better care, I tabled an amendment together with D66 to give more room for manoeuvre to the centre of expertise established three years ago. We want to broaden the cooperation to other academic centres and we want case managers and nursing specialists who guide patients. We want more knowledge transfer between experts in our own country and those abroad. And more research is needed on the treatment of long-term Lyme, also on treatments offered in alternative guidelines. I therefore hope that the Minister will take a positive view of this amendment. I would very much like to take a look with the Minister for Medical Care in the near future at how we can structurally improve care for chronic Lyme patients.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u88	Let me say first of all that I have a great deal of sympathy for the amendment to the Lyme Centre of Expertise, but let me look further. We also have people with Q fever and people with chronic fatigue syndrome. There are very often similarities between these three different diseases. I would like to ask Mrs Dik-Faber whether she would like to see, also with this amendment, how this could be better integrated rather than having all three separate centres of expertise in the future. We have recently adopted a motion on chronic fatigue syndrome on the initiative of Mr Raemakers: how this can be better integrated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u89	Let's say I'm not a doctor. For me as a layman and perhaps also for Mrs Van den Berg as a layman, I'm not quite sure what her background is, if she's a doctor... You could say: we are dealing here with groups of patients suffering from chronic diseases including fatigue. Indeed, Lyme may express itself in fatigue, but there are also other symptoms in chronic Lyme. I find it difficult as a layman, as a politician, to say now that we need a centre of expertise for all these chronic diseases. I do not know whether that is the intention of Mrs Van den Berg. Of course, I would very much like to see whether the knowledge and expertise we have in various areas can be combined and whether we can ensure that they reinforce each other, but I would very much like to give the healthcare sector the lead in this. I also invite the care sector to advise me on this. Three years ago, we established the expertise centre for Lyme, which was not for nothing; that was also after a large debate in the Chamber because it is a group of patients who do not get the care they need. So maybe it's a little early to say: let's throw it all into a pile. I really want to be advised on that. I would very much like to give the centre of expertise more space to improve patient care. I apologize that this is a somewhat long answer, but it is also a complicated matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u90	I'm certainly not a doctor, and in that sense I'd like to be advised. Only in all these situations you get a separate board and a separate board. One must have different expertises, but perhaps there can be a positive organizational cross-pollination and the knowledge can be better transferred. I would like to give that to Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u91	I have now tabled an amendment with D66 to improve care for chronic Lyme patients. I think this is really necessary. This isn't right for you right now. We have all spoken to the people who handed over the Lyme monitor to MPs. They have also really convinced me that it is not yet on the road. So I think it's really too early to talk about putting together all kinds of centres of expertise and how to organize it. I really want to improve care, but if Mrs Van den Berg comes up with proposals on how this should be done in a different way, then I would very much like to think about it with her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u92	Thank you to Mr Dik-Faber and the D66 colleagues for this initiative. It is very important that we in the Chamber follow up the conversation that started following the Lyme Monitor. I do hear sounds that patients sometimes do not feel involved in the way in which such a centre of expertise works. Does Mrs Dik-Faber know those sounds and, if so, is there any room in the proposal that she is doing to ensure that patients are heard better or different?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u93	I have heard in particular from patients that they do not feel taken seriously by the healthcare sector. They go to a doctor with their symptoms and the doctor says: go to a physiotherapist or to a psychologist, then your problems are solved. But it doesn't work that way. That's exactly what's going on. The diagnosis is difficult and the treatment does not fit well with the need for care and that is what needs to be improved. That is why I think it is so important that we strengthen that centre of expertise, because those patients are represented in it and they need to be able to make their voice heard. I also want, for example, that there is an eye for alternative treatments. Patients come to me and say they have heard that treatment works in other countries, but in the Netherlands they still run into certain walls. I want that conversation to be held and there's an open eye for it. I think the center of expertise is the place to have the conversation between the patients and the doctors.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u94	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u95	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has a long tradition when it comes to training tropic doctors, the so-called Arts International Health Care and Tropengeneeskunde, AIGT. Unlike other specializations, hospitals for the training of AIGT, an approved training course, are not reimbursed by the government. In order to ensure that the training up to AIGT is maintained in the Netherlands, it is necessary to make a form of public funding available. That is why I am considering tabling an amendment to contribute to the cost of the various training courses, costs that are often borne by hospitals now, and to contribute to the costs of the training institute. I'd like to hear from the Minister of Medical Care how he stands on this idea. Then there's another point. The healthcare sector has a relative share of CO and waste emissions. However, sustainability is not a topic that is at the top of the agenda for caregivers and caregivers. On the one hand, this is understandable because patient care must, of course, be number one. But it can be different, where quality of care and sustainability go hand in hand. I know that the healthcare sector itself is very keen to take this up. They have closed the green deal Sustainable care. Some hospitals, such as the Radboud UMC, have already started to work, but the Christian Union and GroenLinks feel that more is needed. The green deal seems to still exist on paper. That is why there are a number of questions to the Minister. Does the Minister want to make sure that sustainability is given a place in the training and the main agreements? Can the healthcare sector also use subsidies for energy saving, for example, subsidies that are often made available from the Ministry of Economic Affairs? How can the care sector contribute to the circular economy? I would like an answer to these questions. Recently, the news showed that fertility clinics are increasingly using semen from abroad, especially from Denmark. My group is concerned about this development. For example, anonymous donors are still working, you can only get acquainted with the donor at the age of 18 and go to at least 80 other countries where many half-brothers and sisters are born. My group really wonders whether this is in the best interest of the donor children.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u96	Mrs Dik-Faber asked a question about the circular economy. We have read in the press that she also advocates sustainability within hospitals. Where is the priority for the Christian Union in the context of the choices we have to make in view of the saving money we can spend in this sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u97	As far as my group is concerned, the priority is patient care. It's on one. At the same time, there is no need to exclude one from the other. I think it is quite possible to offer both quality of care and to take into account the circular economy and sustainability. I can give you one example of this. I'm not a doctor, but the example is given by a doctor. That said: we have a means to give patients anesthesia; that is accompanied by certain greenhouse gases; we are used to using that medicine, but there is another medicine that is just as good and much more durable, but we have less good on the retina, so that's why we don't use it. If a doctor really wants this to be introduced more widely into healthcare, I would very much like to support and encourage that doctor. That is why I asked the Minister this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u98	I have a question on the subject of children conceived through a donor. Mrs Dik-Faber is making a proposal and I can honestly imagine that you want to regulate it a little more, in line with the situation in the Netherlands. Does Mrs Dik-Faber think you should do the same with adoption, for example? Does she think that in the case of international adoptions, you should look much more closely at uniformity in the agreements you make with each other? 'Cause I get what Mrs. Dik-Faber just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u99	Yeah, sure. I believe that we should always put the best interests of the child first when it comes to adoption and that the Dutch authorities should act in cases of abuse or undersnowing of children's interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u100	I also have a question about knowledge of the history of origin. Mrs Dik-Faber has already argued for a kind of bank with history information. I imagine it will be wider. Should it not be as broad as possible and not only provide information about children who have been conceived through a donor, but also about domestic adoption and foreign adoption, so that you really have one bank with this kind of information where children can learn about their descendant history, if there is such a desire?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u101	This seems to me to be a very good proposal. I am also very curious about the reaction of the cabinet. In essence, I am very positive about this because I believe that every child, every human being, is entitled to pedigree data. It's incredibly important for your identity to learn about that. Mr. Chairman. I had stayed with my questions to the Minister of VWS about the fertility clinics. Does he wish to discuss the situation of semen from Denmark with the fertility clinics and with his Danish colleague, in order to ensure that the guarantees we have in the Netherlands are respected, if possible in a European context? Mr. Chairman. Well, I'll come to my present, but I'm gonna explain it to you first. If you go into a coma, there's the possibility of early-intensive neurorehabilitation. That treatment will be reimbursed. Fortunately, the age limit is off the table. That age limit was last year. Then I handed this book over to the Minister of Medical Care for inspiration. However, the compensation I am talking about is not yet arranged for long-term intensive neurorehabilitation in a nursing home. It is a limited group and the profession believes that the financing of this care should be regulated from the Wlz. The Brain Foundation has provided research funds for long-term intensive neurorehabilitation, but there is nothing to investigate if intensive neurorehabilitation treatment cannot start. Can the VWS Minister, therefore, promise that the funding of this concern will soon be clarified? Also for him today I brought the book on care after coma. I'd like to hand that over to him through the messenger. Mr. Chairman. Then again, it is a very different subject; it is a broad budget with a rich variety of themes. In Limburg, the concept of the Healthy Elementary School of the Future has been developed. Four primary schools, in Landgraaf and Brunssum, have incorporated a new integrated approach into their curriculum, in which sport, game, movement, culture, social interaction and a healthy lunch have become much more central. That seems to me to be a very good concept in terms of lifestyle prevention. Is the Secretary of State prepared to launch a pilot to experiment with this concept in several places in the Netherlands? A major achievement is the Prevention Agreement of this Secretary of State. In it, firm agreements have been made to achieve a smoke-free generation. It is a good thing that the Secretary of State does not want to treat the e-cigarette differently from other tobacco products. The tobacco lobby states that the e-cigarette can help people to quit smoking, but I see that manufacturers use the e-cigarette to get young people to start smoking. Young people are seduced with all kinds of tastes. This was not foreseen when the Prevention Agreement was concluded. At the request of the VVD, an investigation is now being carried out into the effects of the e-cigarette. My question to the Secretary of State is whether he would like to include in this study the addition of flavours.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u102	Thank you for Mrs Dik-Faber's attention to the dangers of e-cigarette. The PvdA just did. But I would like to come back to the point she made about this: ensuring that children learn to eat healthy food at school. I'm just gonna translate it that way. I agree with her question to the Secretary of State, but I would like to add a question. I hope Mrs Dik-Faber agrees with me. This should be financed from the VWS budget rather than from the municipalities. Does Mrs Dik-Faber agree with me, precisely because it is often also municipalities that are already struggling, because there are people who need a little more support than in Wassenaar, for example? I'm just calling it a side street.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u103	I can very well imagine that Mrs Ploumen is now putting this question down. I actually need an overview of what is actually being financed from VWS, what is being financed from LNV, and I know that LNV has also launched new programmes for food education in schools, and what should be financed in addition from the municipalities. I don't have that overview right now. I have the idea that by clustering and by better mapping we can achieve much more with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u104	I wholeheartedly agree with that. I would suggest that we add the program now not pregnant to that. The ministers are quite right to say that, but I hear from people that the quality and effectiveness of that programme can be very high, but that the municipalities often have no money for it. So the cabinet makes nice decorations, but doesn't give money for it. That's what they say. But I'd like to make sure of that, too. So maybe that could be added to that list.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u105	Mr President, we are going from food education to Not Pregnant now. The school is an educational environment. Let's establish that. Fine if Mrs Ploumen wants to use this interruption to redirect the question to the Secretary of State. That's what I'm doing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u106	Yeah, that was very clever. You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u107	Sure, I'm gonna go on. Among other things, the G4 municipalities and the Salvation Army were recently called the alarm clock. We see a sharp increase in the number of homeless and homeless. This calls for a cabinet-wide approach. No longer should we look at more places in social care, at least not only in that way, but also at more available housing. The Secretary of State is coming up with his plan this year, but can he give his first response to the fire letters and the signals from the field? And I know: houses aren't just built and the debt problem hasn't just been solved. But winter's at the door. That's why I'm crying out today. Would the Secretary of State care to comment on that? Mr. Chairman. I come to the implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in the Caribbean Netherlands. It is already three years since the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities entered into force in the Netherlands. At that time my group, together with D66, advocated a plan of action for the Caribbean Netherlands to improve the position of people with disabilities there too. To date, the islands seem to be struggling mainly with the treaty and its implementation. Is the Secretary of State prepared to consider how Caribbean Netherlands can be supported in its implementation and what timetable can be used? My colleague, Mr Van der Graaf, has also tabled a motion for a resolution on the budget for Kingdom relations. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. There are major challenges in the care sector. I therefore wish the three gentlemen every success and wisdom and look forward to the answers to my questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u108	Thank you. The big moment is now: Mrs Van Esch's maiden speech from the Party for Animals. We're gonna sit extra upright in our seats. The entire fraction of the Party for Animals has arrived. Box-K is on the tip of the seat. I call Mrs Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u109	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. As with a maiden speech, I would like to start with a few words about myself, with a personal story. Since I was three, I have diabetes, an autoimmune disease that I unfortunately had no influence on when I got it. What I do influence is how I stay healthy with this disease. I therefore wish to express my wish that as few people as possible in the Netherlands get diabetes. Because even though I couldn't prevent it, that's the case with people with type 2 sometimes. That should also be the purpose of this cabinet. Avoid cure instead of cure. Because the most important question in this debate is: how do we keep the Netherlands healthy? That really starts with good prevention. And real prevention, preventing people from getting sick, requires a coherent government policy that puts human, animal and nature's health at the centre. Unfortunately, this government is failing in this, and it is failing in the next. In the nitrogen debate of recent times, much attention is rightly paid to the decline of nature. But the effect of nitrogen emissions is not only harmful to nature; it is also harmful to humans. Earlier this year, a comprehensive study showed that 4 million children worldwide and at least 8,000 children in the Netherlands have asthma due to these high concentrations of nitrogen dioxide in the air. Can the Minister respond to this study? In what way does the Minister interfere in this nitrogen debate in order to highlight this side of this major crisis? And we still have to deal with the long-term consequences of the Q-fever epidemic. The outbreak and the rapid spread of the disease was the direct result of the growth of intensive goat farming in the Netherlands. Anno 2019, against the advice of the GGD, permits are still issued for houses close to goat farms. The Limburg college of GS wants to lift the ban on the expansion of goat farms. Also this is of personal concern to me, because I was born and raised in Herwijnen, a small village with a mega-goat farm, which by a late reaction of the municipality can now grow to a gigastal with 13,000 goats. My friends and family in Herwijnen and surrounding villages run major health risks. What can these people expect from the rulers, for their health, for their future? Do they feel responsible for this problem? New research by Q-support shows that 94% of Q-fever patients still suffer from health complaints ten years after the epidemic. The report concludes that there is a lack of knowledge and good treatment and that a centre of expertise is needed, where healthcare professionals can work together. But according to the Animal Party, this is the least this government can do for these patients. Can the Minister respond to this? When's that expertise center due? Because this cabinet fails to link cause and effect to each other. By fragmentation of policies and responsibilities, they allow intensive livestock farming to hijack our health. Do these ministers agree with the Animal Party that it is essential for a truly healthy environment, for an integrated prevention policy, that the various departments take action together and take source measures? Can children with asthma and Q fever victims count on this cabinet? What are you going to do for them? Mr. Chairman. Actually, I'm back on my last point. In the second progress report At home in the nursing home, we still don't read back about removing thresholds for bringing pets, although last year the Minister of VWS promised to include this in discussions with those institutions. Can this be taken into account structurally under the objective of more time and attention to the inhabitant? I'd like a response to that. Closing, well-being and well-being can be improved in many ways and according to the Party for Animals there is still a lot to gain with a firm prevention. Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u110	Look, that's a maiden speech like it's supposed to be, from the book!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u111	A nice personal story, combined with today's topic. And you have a minute left, so you'll be a favorite MP of many presidents! If you come here, it's an honor and a pleasure to be the first to congratulate you, and then there may be others who want the same thing. At least you'll get a bouquet from the group leader.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u112	We're gonna go on cheerful. I call Mrs Sazias.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u113	Thank you, Mr President. Five years ago around this time, the municipalities were busy preparing for the great transition. I was in the city council of Hilversum then. I've seen how much stress that caused for the administration. Countless additional meetings and work visits to see how we would organise these new tasks. The transfer of tasks also brought with it a huge cut in costs. Of course, that was the first mistake, because of course you have to invest before you start saving. Does the Minister consider the transition to be successful? Do we now have more or less bureaucracy? The Minister spoke in Buitenhof about his wish for a system change. I was surprised at that, to be honest. But fine, we are very happy with that, because 50PLUS thinks that is also very necessary. But unlike the Minister, we would like to see market forces in the care sector severely reduced, because we believe that market forces are one of the main causes of the cost increases within the care sector. That market forces require the government to play a role as market master. A market master who prevents abuse and fraud by health cowboys and guarantees continuity and access to the very best diagnostics and treatment for everyone. This market master also has a major role to play in the implementation of the WMO, youth care and ggz. Where the Minister puts emphasis in his budget on all kinds of decentralised programmes, my group particularly lacks the minister in his role as market master, with his own responsibility which cannot be transferred to local authorities. This decentralisation of care tasks to the municipalities had the basis that the care would then be integral and closer to the citizen. But we still see all too often that one can see. That's how I sat at a kitchen table. Where someone is supposed to look integrally, for example at what people need in Wmo facilities, and also at whether there is not an unopened post a meter and a half or that someone is poorly fed, there is a Wmo consultant at that kitchen table. That was not the intention: it was about the broad integral look. For this reason, 50PLUS would like the district nurse to be able to over-indicate domain in all areas, i.e. both the Wmo and the Wlz and its own field of expertise. How much bureaucracy would that matter? What does the Minister think about that? Municipalities cannot sustain the care tasks for the current budget. This is at the expense of other care and facilities. For example, we are happy for clients with the Wmo subscription rate for €17.50 per month, but for municipalities this is not cost-effective. Moreover, there is now a very large difference between the own contribution for the Wmo and the own contribution for the Long-Term Care Act. As a result of this large transition, people often stay longer in the Wmo than is necessary and the additional pressure on the municipalities is increased. 50PLUS believes the Empire should ease that transition. How does the Minister feel about that? Then we'll go to Child Services. That is not exactly the priority of 50PLUS, but we also have children and grandchildren, so we think it is important to say something about the youth ggz. Children in need of mental health care must wait for this for months through the waiting lists. Months of severe suffering and deterioration. When children are finally helped, they sometimes see dozens of aid workers. Dozens. What does the Minister think of the reports that a quarter of the youth care institutions cannot survive? As far as bureaucracy is concerned, can the Minister, in his role as market manager, not ensure that procurement procedures in the municipalities are all uniform? 50PLUS believes that the youth-ggz should never have gone to the municipalities, but should have been in the health insurance scheme. Then you don't have a transfer with 18 years and you don't have to start a new route again with a new aid worker. The whole care system is clogged. There are huge waiting lists in youth care and also for nursing homes. There are too few places in first-line accommodation and too few rehab places for elderly people who are waiting for a place in a nursing home or who have to recover before they can go home. Healthcare insurers want the waiting lists to be addressed, but at the same time set budget ceilings, which will create more waiting lists. I have said it before: the gap between responsible independent living at home and the nursing home is too large, and this is only exacerbated by the lack of nursing homes. As a result, the outpatient care field is far too complex and overloaded. We just need to get back to forms of nursing homes! Not everyone likes to be left alone in a house that's too big. Together with Home Affairs, a major action plan will have to be put in place towards municipalities, housing corporations and healthcare institutions, and then it will be the municipalities that have to pull the strings. Does the Minister agree with us that the hole is too big? Does the Minister see the urgency of this problem? The solution begins with living, affordable living. If the elderly have the opportunity to live together, they can also take care of each other a little bit. But these forms of housing cost more than just separate homes. Broader corridors are needed, there is a common meeting room and a shared kitchen. But for those extra costs, most housing corporations don't have any money. More money is needed to develop housing concepts for the elderly. How does the Minister feel about that? Is he willing to invest extra in that? The great aging wave is yet to come. The number of carers is falling, while we need them more. Support for carers is different in every municipality. Also, the money that the municipalities receive for the family care compliment is not earmarked and does not always end up with the people for whom it is intended. On the contrary, carers deserve more support, because they are getting heavier tasks. Then basic dental care and oral hygiene. 50PLUS has been advocating for years that it should be accessible to everyone and should actually be in basic insurance. Now we see that kids don't go to the dentist because the parents don't go anymore. That is why we are pleased to see that the professional associations in the oral care, client and patient organisations, the health insurance companies and the Dutch Health Care Authority have identified seven ambitions for oral care. One of these ambitions is tailor-made in the financing and organisation of oral care for vulnerable elderly people. Indeed, the chairman of the Dutch Health Authority warns that we are still dealing with the dentures generation, as he says, but that the generation of older people that is coming now still has a large part of their own teeth. Neglect of teeth can lead to serious disorders, which in turn leads to high costs of care. Preventive oral care can therefore save a lot of costs. For children under 18 years of age, oral care is part of the basic insurance scheme and 50PLUS would argue that dental care for older people from the retirement age should also be financed from basic care. Is the Minister prepared to examine the costs, but also the benefits, of this? Then, of course, the important question remains how to keep care affordable. Research by Follow the Money shows that some healthcare companies have been making millions of profits since 2015, such as the Utrecht care company that has been cheating on millions of pgbs. ICT companies billing hospitals for billions, but now frustrating data transfer and holding hospitals hostage. There is far too little supervision of healthcare companies. This is where the market master fails. Does the Minister consider that such matters as basic agreements, a proposed inventory of regional images, the measures to improve the quality offered and the additional budget offered are sufficient to remove the care cowboys? If not, what would be good measures? Another way of saving money is prevention. Almost everyone has talked about this today. What does the Minister think of the call from 67 healthcare professionals to invest in the prevention of dementia? This could potentially save 2 billion. They're calling you to do something about it. Moving, social activities, sleeping and eating well, seem to be quite normal things, but those are also the things that break down in the elderly. Is the Minister going to make that investment? We are pleased that from 2020 the pharmacy preparation of very expensive medicines will be reimbursed. That's a good step. There is also a lot of money to be gained with the right medication and with medication in the right dosage. In 2015, the cost of overtreatment with the 11 most expensive cancer medicines was approximately EUR 277 million. This represents more than half of the total expenditure on these 11 medicines. The side effects of chemo are so intense that they cost the patient an enormous amount of quality of life. 227 million euros per year for overtreatment. Here it is: if it doesn't work, it will. Personally, I ran into it. I started with six chemo pills a day until my soles and my palms fell off. Eventually, I'm on one pill a day and that's a much better dosage. You can check: what a waste but also what terrible side effects for the patient. Through increasingly sophisticated molecular biological techniques we go to diagnostics and treatment tailored to the patient. Technically, we can do it and we can do more and more. We may know what the best treatment and the best dosage is for someone, but then we don't do it because the rules don't allow it or because the compensation cannot be arranged on the basis of those rules. Although the policy framework already provides a small incentive for conditional authorisation of medicinal products, my group considers that this is not enough. It will come forward with an own-initiative paper on this issue together with some other groups. When testing new medicines, more attention should also be paid to the female body. Medications are mostly tested on young men, and I really don't have to tell you that a woman's body is very different. More research is needed, especially on the female body, for example on the relationship between burnout complaints and menopause. How is the Minister going to draw more attention to this? More customization in medication also means help with phasing out medication. Tapering strips for reduction of antidepressants should be compensated, but also for the reduction of heavy painkillers such as oxycodone. Does the Minister agree with 50PLUS that it is also possible to make savings and that the aid for phasing out should therefore simply be included in the basic package? Mr. Chairman. I'm going to talk about the hospitals now. Recently, during the AO Acute care I was introduced to a new abbreviation for me: NEDAB, non-economic service of general interest. This is about paramedics. In the case of ambulance care, the continuity of the patient's emergency care is paramount. Ambulance care should be available 24 hours a day seven days a week at all times. In order to ensure this, the Minister announces that he wishes to consider ambulance services as a non-economic service of general interest, i.e. NEDAB. I found and find this a wonderful example of the minister in his role as market master. And an important example too, especially now that we know on the basis of the annual financial benchmark of hospitals that there are still at least 11 hospitals in financial danger. Because if hospitals in financial difficulties start to cut down on a department like emergency care, that same continuity of the necessary acute care is at risk. Does it not make sense, in any case and at least, to label the Emergency Department as a non-economic service of general interest? In this way, the continuity of acute care can be ensured for all on the basis of the same arguments put forward by the Minister concerning ambulance care. It would be as much trouble in the country as the Minister would be willing to say that in the case of funding and the applicable laws and regulations, he would label the Emergency Departments as a non-economic service of general interest, in order to ensure continuity of emergency care in all hospitals for all patients. Looking at this budget, I particularly see ministers working on designing and launching all kinds of beautiful programmes, where responsibility for implementation lies with third parties. Nice, so many ideas and ambitions, but the role of market master of care is too limited, so that the abuses I mentioned in my speech are not quickly caught up and resolved and so there are also large differences in access to and quality of care and diagnostics locally. The 50PLUS Group believes that the Minister should take responsibility for fulfilling the obligations arising from the right to health and which he cannot delegate to others. Is he gonna take that responsibility here? Finally, Mr President. On behalf of 50PLUS, I would like to express our appreciation for all the people, nurses, carers, who, despite all the problems, continue to do their work in care with great commitment and love.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u114	Thank you. I call Mr Van der Staaij, from the political group of the Reformed Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u115	Mr. Chairman. Nurses, nurses, doctors are under pressure. They do a lot of work, a lot of work, too few people, too long and too often they have to walk on their toes. They're being questioned. Cabinet, do something about this. How wonderful it would be if everyone jumped up at the moment and said: this is your text from last year! Because that's the case. That is how I started my contribution to this budget last year. The fact that everyone hears this as if it is applicable now is actually shocking. It would be nice if you would say: that was really last year's text, but that is now over. Unfortunately, that is not the reality we are dealing with. You read it in emails and letters you receive, we all hear it when we go to work: it's about those workers in the care that have rightly been complimented so many times today. I wholeheartedly agree with that. But there is also concern: the rack will get out. The rostermaker in home care is in the hair to arrange palliative care for a seriously ill patient for the next week. The general practitioner who decides to give up his weekly day off to get rid of the waiting list. The nurse who after completing another comprehensive report wonders why he does all this and whether this really can't be easier. The caretaker who is day in, day out ready for a loved one, but after all these years is slowly burning up. Since the start of this cabinet, of course, a lot has happened. Action programmes, action plans. Not words but deeds, the rulers said, no major changes in the system, but all the balls on the execution. I am not being laconical about this, because if you want action and you want it to be coherent and coordinated, then it is very good that action plans are being put in place. However, the concern is that, first of all, I mention the point of enough people in the care that you sometimes risk being overtaken by actuality. Then there's the question of how to adjust. How can we say at some point in time: something extra or something else is needed here? I would also like to stress the importance of involving the so-called gray literature and stories. We should not just say: according to the monitoring, we are actually on schedule. Indeed, very recent stories from practice or the newspapers can be a very valuable and important addition to all the good monitors we have, because they can sometimes make the image a little sharper and more up-to-date. Last month we talked about the progress of the Langer Home programme. It sounds beautiful, and it is: as long as possible at home in your own familiar environment. But the number of people in need of care is growing rapidly, and the number of people who can and want to take care of others is falling rapidly. Older people are increasingly looking in vain for a suitable home to enjoy their pension. If you go for a house adjustment, you'll be sent from the locker to the wall. And when you need a nursing home, sometimes you have to wait a long time. How do we prevent, is my question, that the program Langer Home is stalled? Does the Minister really have an eye for the gaps in practice, for example in finding enough people in night care and palliative home care? Think also of the Action Plan (Ont) Regulal de Zorg. There are now good examples of organisations that have thrown unnecessary rules overboard, but the Minister himself notes that the action plan is far from producing results and that there is still too little sign of it in practice. What steps does the Minister take to ensure that unnecessary rules are removed in every municipality, in every healthcare organisation, in every team? The questions that lie on the sign are best to give us all some headaches. How can we best manage healthcare in the Netherlands? As it now seems, the cabinet sees the future of the region as the place where the lines are to come together. Before the summer of 2020, the cabinet will present a contour note. Our hearts are full of expectation, but perhaps some of the outlines of the contour note can already be outlined in this debate. Mr. Chairman. It is also sometimes good to light your light in other countries. How'd it go there? In the autumn recess we travelled with a number of MPs to Denmark and Sweden; this was already mentioned in other contributions. I found it very valuable to see how care is regulated and organized in those countries, and also to be more than usual in conversation with colleagues from other groups about your ideas on how to do things better and differently in the Netherlands in the future. I think that is also important in all the adjustments to the system. It shouldn't be something that you try to exchange or settle with each other on a negotiating table after elections. It would be fantastic if, on the basis of studies and this kind of work visits, you could come up with a much broader approach to what we all really want. There are not many ideological differences in this respect. How do you make sure that people just get the best possible care, affordable and accessible? There are a lot of examples to be mentioned, and they will come back later, but I am now picking out one thing I found very special about this work visit: Sylviahemmet, a unique place in Stockholm for people with dementia. The name "Sylviahemmet" refers to the Swedish queen. dementia care received Sylvia's heart when her mother was affected by the condition. Still, you can see that every year the queen awards degrees to proud Sylvia sisters and brothers. It is a spacious, bright and cozy furnished place. It's full of activities. The daily spending is in the middle of the green. You can also see with what kind of love and respect people with dementia are receiving. At the same time, the knowledge is used to provide training for other people in the country who can go on with it. The nurse who gave us a tour told us how important it is to offer people warmth, comfort and safety and to show genuine interest in someone's life story. She stressed that good palliative care is not only something for the last few weeks of life but also before, when healing is no longer a matter of providing comfort and alleviating pain and suffering. When you look at the term "palliative care," it is quite natural, but surprising to me, to apply it to people with dementia and to say that everything that belongs to palliative care is the end of life, wide and integral, and that much work is actually done for people with dementia when there is no prospect of healing, even though there is still a longer way to go. As in Sweden, there are also good examples of loving care for people with dementia in the Netherlands. However, I would also like to call on the Minister to look at how knowledge and experience can be disseminated more widely, even when it comes to palliative care in other areas. We've said that a lot. Can it not emerge more strongly in the curriculum of training? It often takes so long before it really gets a place. How can you do that faster? By the way, what about the Deltaplan Dementie? Will that also continue after the deadline has expired? I agree with the questions that have been asked about the prevention of dementia. Mr. Chairman. Sylvia hemmet makes it clear to us that elderly people with dementia are and remain precious fellows. The value of life does not depend on the circumstances, however difficult and painful they may be. I believe that the value of every human being is given with the life breath that God has given. Speaking of the value of life, this is my final point, and then I'm smuggling a minute off my second term, Mr President. In a few days, the annual Week of Life will begin. This time, attention is being paid to alternatives to abortion. A flyer is being delivered throughout the Netherlands that wants to encourage the conversation about this. The SGP strongly supports this. However, we are aware that this campaign is limited to one week in the year. My question is therefore: is the cabinet not prepared to take over and scale up this action? Is it prepared to bring the alternatives to abortion to the attention of a broad public through a national campaign for a whole year? Mr President, that was my last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u116	Let me come back to that last point. The leaflet referred to by Mr Van der Staaij is distributed throughout the Netherlands. I assume that the law will be adhered to. That's how I know Mr Van der Staaij. I assume that people who have indicated that they do not want unsolicited printed matter will not get that either. But I get quite a lot of messages from women who get very angry about this leaflet. For example, women who have themselves had abortions, who find that a difficult decision and who do not want to be confronted with such a leaflet unsolicited. These are women who do not want to be confronted with a message that they are not waiting for. What does Mr Van der Staaij say to them? In what way does he want to take their feelings into account?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u117	It would be good not only for me but also for Mrs Ploumen to say that to them. As far as I'm concerned, that would be even better. I would say this to you: 'You know, this leaflet does the following. You notice that sometimes there is insufficient attention to alternatives to abortion. That is also something that is quite normal, because according to the law that we adopted in the Netherlands, that should also happen. We understand that it is very personal and sensitive to people, but let us not make it a taboo that it has also been quite difficult for a lot of people to carry out such an abortion. And then what's wrong with looking at how we can reduce the number of abortions by finding alternatives that are good for everyone? That's good."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u118	Mr Van der Staaij suggests that he offers a solution to a problem that does not exist. There is no taboo, at least not from my side. Women don't always think that's an easy decision. They can talk about that, too. Doctors and healthcare professionals are willing and able to offer alternatives. They do, too. In addition to hurting women, the leaflet is therefore unnecessary. I wanted to give that to Mr Van der Staaij. He and I have a very different message about women's freedom. I'm right in front of that, not him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u119	I don't think there was a question in this. It is more of a conclusion that Mrs Ploumen draws. I would say that what Mrs Ploumen is saying in that leaflet is something that I think Mrs Ploumen could simply share. The message is: also have an eye for alternatives. As I said, that is what is still in the legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u120	Put a sticker on the mailbox, I'd say. But I would like Mr Van der Staaij to...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u121	Why do you need a sticker on the mailbox? I don't understand. Isn't that what this taboo of "I don't want to know," "I don't want to hear about it," "Leave me alone"? It's just a social theme. Why can't we just talk about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u122	Mr President, I think I was working on my speech. I actually had a question about something else, but thank you for inviting me to explain it. What I mean by that is: that's how people have the choice to see it or not. A lot of people don't need that, and for some women it's also confronting to receive flyers like that. That's why I thought: stick a sticker on the mailbox so people can make it clear that they don't want to receive that kind of mail. But I had a positive comment. In fact, I agreed with Mr Van der Staaij's speech, to the last part. It is good to talk here today about the future of care, about the contours, about the solutions that we have to come up with and identify with each other. We also need to look at the short-term problems we see. But my question to Mr Van der Staaij is as follows. That contour note won't come until next summer. Does Mr Van der Staaij agree with me that this is actually quite late? Because then there's actually only a year left to work on it. We've been two years ahead now, while, looking at the challenges of the future, we know that the challenges are huge and that every month is actually a lost month if we don't do something. Does Mr Van der Staaij agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u123	I agree. The sooner the better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u124	That is very short, but well, if an answer can be short, that is also nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u125	I'd be happy to give you another answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u126	No, two words is perfect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u127	But it's really true; this is what I really think. I therefore agree with you on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u128	Whatever Mr Van der Staaij also triggered me in, so I also said that I think we were very much in agreement with each other until the end. I sometimes read letters from the Minister saying that things are going well. Take, for example, the awareness of the full package at home and the modular package at home or the access to the zzp 4, which I am concerned about. We're gonna look into that again. Does Mr Van der Staaij agree with me that in these urgent problems there is a feeling that we do not always know what is actually going on in practice on the basis of monitors? Is that also the remark that Mr Van der Staaij made and the appeal he made to the cabinet: look beyond just monitors; talk to people and also signal that there are real problems at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u129	Yeah, I do think it's very important to have a good eye for that. Otherwise, you underestimate what dormant discontent there is about holes falling into care. Indeed, the system answers do not help with that. Mrs. Agema started the system this morning. Suppose we ask a question about a situation where home care couldn't arrange night care somewhere for someone who was terminally ill, because they just really didn't have people. Then the answer we get is: there is a right to care, so address your health care provider, and if that health care provider doesn't do his job well, then the NZa can still intervene. I understand that, too. That's absolutely true. There's no pin to get in there. But that's not how I see it working in practice. When those holes fall, they are working in all kinds of ways to fix that up and get it done again. When you say, "Yes, but there's a right to care, isn't there?', They say, "Yes, but if you don't have any options, then you don't need a paper right." If you're not careful, it doesn't work out well in all system monitors, but in the meantime there's growing discontent and wood-rope solutions are found for this kind of staff shortages.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u130	Thank you. The one-after-last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Kuzu of the DENK Group. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u131	Mr President, thank you for this fantastic announcement. Before I begin my speech, I would like to congratulate Mrs Van Esch on her maiden speech. It's common in this room. I hope that many fine contributions will follow. Mr. Chairman. "Take care of the people, take care of the people." "Care for care." "The care needs to be better and more personal." "The right care in the best place, the best care in the right place." These are nice slogans on the first pages of the budget. They are lyrics that we actually see every year. Every year, during their contributions, fellow room members talk about their work visits, about emails they receive, about experiences they have gained abroad and about their own experiences. Today I'm not gonna do that, because sometimes it looks like it's a competition. While we are sitting here telling stories, asking directors smart questions, going to table a lot of motions tomorrow and then closing those motions with the text 'and going to the order of the day', we see that there are even more poignant situations. While we ask smart questions, many Dutch people fall between shore and ship due to staff shortages in healthcare. While we are filing motions, there are a lot of people who are considering not going to the hospital, because it is no longer payable. While we conclude our motions with this wonderful text 'and goes to the order of the day', giving care to a dear one is the order of the day for a great many people. Mr. Chairman. Then there are those heroes and heroines in care, who with passion give loving and warm care to people who need it. Think of general practitioners, nurses, specialists, home care workers and much more to mention. They're all top-of-the-line. They deserve our appreciation. But are these people getting enough appreciation? We surpass each other in words to express that appreciation, but in deeds... The reality of the act is that wages are left behind in care. The reality is staff shortages. The reality is hospitals going bankrupt. The reality is that, after farmers, builders, taxi drivers and educational staff, hospital staff will quite rightly cease to be valued in non-emergency work throughout the country on 20 November. It is the first time such a national strike has been carried out in the care sector. Those heroes and heroes in care are at too high a workload, shortage of staff, insufficient compensation for irregular work and low wages. The Nederlandse Vereniging van Ziekenhuizen (Dutch Association of Hospitals) therefore requests 200 million from the cabinet to improve the position of the staff. And all we're talking about is the hospital staff. My first question to the Minister is therefore: is he really going to let it go so far that staff have to stop in care to get what they deserve? Is he going to meet the heroes and heroes of care? Is he willing to go deeper into the pouch for a better collective agreement? Mr. Chairman. The Benchmark Hospitals also show that the strike is justified. Eleven hospitals are currently in financial difficulties. I call it the Haga Hospital in The Hague, the Zaans Medisch Centrum in Zaanstad and the Hospital Group Twente. In a rich country like the Netherlands, it is difficult to imagine that public facilities such as hospitals risk going bankrupt uncontrolled, as we saw last year at the debacle of the IJsselmeer hospitals and the Slotervaart hospital. At these hospitals, the minister stood there and looked at it. He was a system responsible who refused to take system responsibility. I hope he's learned some lessons. That is why I am asking the Minister what action he is taking at the eleven hospitals that have come out of the benchmark as a criticism. Is he prepared to intervene in these hospitals, so these hospitals can't fall down uncontrolled? What exactly is he gonna do? Mr. Chairman. In addition to the financial problems, care providers face a structural administrative burden. Two thirds of the healthcare staff indicate that they experience too high a workload, which is mainly caused by administrative burdens. Today ministries, municipalities, health insurance companies, the inspection and who else are asking for all kinds of information. Many initiatives are also being taken to reduce this administrative burden, but it does not want to succeed. Is the Minister prepared to set an objective for reducing, reducing and reducing this administrative burden? Small healthcare providers, in particular, face enormous burdens. Today, we also have health insurance companies that are scumbags against free-standing general practitioners or psychologists. They have to log in via a portal, check some pre-filled questions and upload some copies, and if they don't check somewhere or if they forget to upload a document, they won't get a contract with the health insurance companies. I wonder what the Minister actually thinks of this behaviour of health insurers. Is it not on the Minister's agenda that care should be more personal and that this should be noticeable? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. It is clear that the water is on the lips of the people in the care. Despite this situation, the people in care are ready for those who need care. But the affordability of that care is under enormous pressure. RTL News reported on shining cases in August of this year: people who couldn't go on holiday or even had to sell their homes because of the towering care costs. This is only getting worse, because the healthcare premium will rise again next year with an exorbitant amount, as it has done in recent years. In 2010, the average basic health insurance premium was €1,082, which was already €1,420 in 2019. This is an increase of almost €400 in a few years. What does the Minister actually think of this increase? How does he feel that people who have had to turn in huge amounts in recent years have been packed with €400 for health insurance? Does he think that's even fair? €400 in nine years and for the coming year, the cabinet estimates, the healthcare premium will increase again €37. According to the estimate, huh? As if that weren't enough, health insurance company DSW, who traditionally first announced the premium level, announced at the end of September that the premium increase would be double what the cabinet predicted. So not €37, but €74. What does the Minister actually think of him being wrong with his estimate and that there is a twice as high premium increase in DSW? Other health insurers often follow that example. Does he find this rise exorbitant or not? Can the Minister insist that this increase is offset by the increase in the health care allowance? If so, how does the Minister feel that DSW customers are experiencing an increase higher than the increase in the healthcare allowance and that they are therefore simply falling sharply? Mr. Chairman. As if that were not enough, the cabinet decided that the maximum reduction in collective health insurance would be halved in the coming year, from a maximum of 10% to a maximum of 5%. No less than two thirds of the Dutch have collective health insurance. If you add to the premium increase the increase in costs as a result of the halving of the discount, it turns out that a lot of Dutch people are not going to pay €37, but over €100 more in healthcare premium. That is almost twice as much as the crumb of €67 increase in the healthcare allowance that this cabinet allocates to the Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u132	A question from Mr Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u133	Mr Kuzu is now using an announced increase in DSW to make a whole song here, but can he also tell me what the development of DSW's premium has been like in recent years? How did it relate to the general cost increases?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u134	We are dealing here with the VWS budget for the coming year. As a result of this story, I tried to tell you what the increase in the premium does with the promise made by the cabinet on Princess Day and during the General Political Reviews, that everyone will progress, that there is economic growth and that purchasing power will improve. The increase in purchasing power is the estimate I have just indicated that it is far from reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u135	I would like to give each one his own party, his own pleasure and thus his own moment to make a song, but it would have decorated Mr Kuzu if in recent years he had also made a number of the fact that in those years DSW often had only half a premium increase compared to others and was still under the government's estimate. If you're celebrating a party, celebrate it at any time and have been so honest over the past few years to say: gosh, when I look at the DSW rise, it's not so bad because it's lower than predicted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u136	I disagree. I have just indicated in my contribution that health insurance costs for individuals, for the people in the country, have increased by €400 in nine years. It's like we're supposed to be having a party here, because the care premium has risen so little. It is about €400 in nine years and if we continue in this way, this premium will continue to increase in the coming years, also due to the VVD. I think that is absolutely scandalous. We should not have that; we should do that differently. Mr. Chairman. It is not just the increase in the health insurance premium. Apart from the fact that Dutch people are squeezed out with these towering care premiums, sick people in the Netherlands are also punished by the absurdly high own risk; an own risk that has increased by €235 since 2008 to the abnormal amount of €385. This own risk immediately leads to people who actually need care not going to the doctor because of the costs. This cabinet and the coalition parties are now presenting it as a victory that their own risk will not be increased in the coming years and is fixed at €385. It is, of course, electoral deception that the CDA and the Christian Union have done this. It is electoral deception and we will be pleased to keep reminding people of it. The CDA promised a reduction in its own risk by €105, the ChristianUnion promised a reduction of €100 and that just didn't work out at all. Apparently power is more important than standing up for the sick. This is electoral deception. But there is also a superb kick for electoral deception pur sang and that consists of four letters: PvdA. A party that, when in the government, raises its own risk by hundreds of euros, which says in campaign time that its own risk must be completely eliminated and that even in the opposition it breaks an electoral promise by stating that its own risk must be halved. I don't get it. Mr. Chairman. We at DENK therefore say: make the care affordable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u137	A question from Mrs Ploumen of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u138	Just the facts about the position of the Labour Party about its own risk. We made a counter-budget together with the SP and GroenLinks. We are in favour of abolishing one's own risk, and we are doing so in two steps. Because the government is always refusing to take a step, perhaps this year we have taken that step again. To reassure Mr Kuzu, we agree. Abolition of one's own risk can and must. People should not avoid care, especially in times of economic abundance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u139	I would have liked to have seen from the PvdA but also from other left-wing parties that they didn't halve their own risk, but simply completely abolish it in their counter-budget. It could have been, it was possible, but it wasn't the choice. That is the choice of the three left-wing opposition parties. Mr. Chairman. We are simply saying very clearly: remove your own risk and tackle the pharmaceutical industry that makes billions of profits by further tightening up the pharmaceutical prices Act. Take out the profits and reserves of health insurance companies that make billions of profits above the legal limit. Ensure an efficiency impact on health insurers. Increase the state contribution to the Health Insurance Act and save on the high cost of medical devices. Mr. Chairman. Whether people in the country like it or not, the fact is that the Netherlands is a country of diversity and a country in which everyone should be able to be themselves. In the care, there is the credo that is at the heart of the patient and that the wishes and requirements of the patient are of great importance. This means that we must also take into account cultural differences between people in care. Older people with dementia often fall back on the language of their youth and expectations of care may vary from group to group. Older people, regardless of their background, need loving care that suits their needs in a place that makes them feel at home. Older people, regardless of their background, should not become unhappy in their old age because they do not get the care that suits their needs and demands. Care interventions often assume that people are powerful in the language and sometimes helpers don't know how to use interventions in different groups. That is why DENK wants to make another plea for culturally sensitive care, from diagnostics to treatment. Mr. Chairman. The concept of "culture-sensitive care" was mentioned in previous budgets, but we see that this year it does not occur at all in the whole budget of Health, Welfare and Sport. I think that is absolutely scandalous. How is the Minister going to ensure that we can make a battle with culturally sensitive care? How is he going to ensure that elderly people with a diverse background receive loving care that matches their needs? Mr. Chairman. Organisations like Pharos and NOOM are given resources to carry out research and develop guidance. These organizations are doing a great job. There's actually so much research available already. I would like to ask the Minister if he would like to step out of that investigation and move on to action. Is the Minister prepared to call for continued attention to culturally sensitive care in consultation with healthcare providers? If so, is he willing to start an experiment with a healthcare provider that can serve as a good example for other healthcare providers? Is the Minister prepared to continue to urge municipalities to ensure that culturally sensitive care is organised in their municipality? If so, is he willing to start an experiment in collaboration with a municipality that can serve as a good example for other municipalities? Is the Minister prepared to include attention to culturally sensitive care in the legal requirements for the quality of care and care institutions? Mr. Chairman. A while ago, Minister De Jonge told us on TV that he is concerned about the number of healthcare companies he encounters when he drives past seniors' flats. It had to be different. He opened, to our satisfaction, the attack on market forces in care, and he surprised us by not just coming up with an action plan. But he pointed in the direction of home care institutions. The problem would be that there would be a lot of home care institutions. There are also home care workers who work very hard every day, so the waiting lists are reasonably under control. These are also home care institutions that guarantee freedom of choice for their clients. These are also home care workers who enable personal attention and care. But, no, those institutions were put down as the scapegoat of freaking out market forces, and that is not really the problem. It's in the way we organize it. As if those home care institutions and those home care workers are responsible for everything that is wrong in the system! Mr. Chairman. At the same time as the Minister's call, home care organisations providing culturally sensitive care were the alarm clock. From many angles, these organisations are being countered. They are faced with bureaucratic barriers, with municipalities suddenly struggling about procurement, with health insurance companies canceling contracts. I will not be surprised if, after a few years, we face the shocking news that home care institutions are being profiled on the basis of ethnic background. We have seen the same thing in the police, where for 30 years it has been denied that there has been ethnic profiling, while no one can deny it now. We have also seen the same in the debacle of child care allowances at the Tax Office, which deliberately selected on the basis of ethnic background and thereby duped people. I would like to ask the Minister: can he at least take away our concerns on this point by saying that he is going to seriously look at this signal and monitor it, so that home care institutions that do their job fairly and properly can do their job even better? Of course, I say this very clearly in our view, too, that when healthcare providers deliberately bulldoze the place and abuse community money, they should be punished for it. Mr. Chairman. My final point, as far as I am concerned, is that the most important point in my contribution to this budget treatment is the rapid development of relatively new drugs that poison young people. I'm talking about nitrous oxide. No one should actually need toxic stuff to laugh. The use of nitrous oxide is becoming a true epidemic. Laughing gas cartridges are available everywhere. Countless young people sometimes use up to 100 nitrous balloons a day, sometimes in combination with alcohol. Young people use nitrous oxide in a car and then drive into a lamppost or, worse still, hit someone in traffic. Safe Traffic The Netherlands has therefore already spoken about road safety. New figures show that road accidents caused by nitrous oxide are becoming more and more common. This year alone there have been 960 incidents. Our environment is also affected. In a calculation made by Milieudefensie, it appears that a balloon of nitrous oxide is as harmful to the environment as a liter of gasoline or diesel. But even worse, it is also the reason why I am raising this issue during this budget debate, namely that a whole generation of young people are being exposed to health risks, of which we do not yet know how serious they can be, but we do know that they are serious enough to take action now. At the National Poisons Information Centre more and more reports of health complaints come in after the use of nitrous oxide. Only last year there were 54 of them. In the first half of this year alone, there were more than 54, i.e. 67. Throughout 2015 it was only 13 reports. The effects of the use of nitrous oxide range from headache and tingling to breathing problems and even paralysis. In the major cities rehabilitation clinics see an increase in the number of patients with paralysis symptoms due to the use of nitrous oxide. Mr President, I am compensating for my second term; you can be sure of that. I am convinced that at least Secretary of State Blokhuis has good intentions on this point, but I also see that little is possible at the moment. We are awaiting a risk assessment by the Coordination Point Assessment and Monitoring of new drugs. Only then will the Secretary of State examine whether measures are being taken. We cannot hide behind a decision by the European Court of Justice when young people are being pushed into misery, road safety is under pressure and people are experiencing nuisances. DENK therefore calls on this cabinet to impose a ban on nitrous oxide. We are aware that this is a legal issue. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State to examine a legal analysis of the feasibility of a ban. If such an analysis exists, I would like to ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to share it with the Chamber. Should it prove that a total ban is not feasible because of European regulations, DENK proposes that we only authorise nitrous gas patterns for use in the food industry or in the medical sector with a licence. In the meantime, as far as we are concerned, the Secretary of State should start an active lobby towards Europe in order to get a new European directive off the ground. Mr. Chairman. In any case, it cannot be the case that they spend so much time working on legal grievances while young people poison themselves, parents sit in their hair and we stand idly by until the next new drug enters the market. Let's keep laughing, but without nitrous oxide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u140	That's what we have you for. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u141	Thank you, Mr President. Care workers succumbing to the workload. Region hospitals and other care institutions falling over are going bankrupt. Municipalities that have structural problems with all the decentralised care files and that lack structural money to provide people even the most basic care. The emergency care that disappears in more and more places. The problems in care for the elderly, youth care, mental health care, midwifery care and maternity care. Waiting lists, open vacancies, cuts. Care should be available, accessible and affordable for everyone, but money remains on the shelf and money invested in healthcare often does not end up where it is most needed, namely with care workers. Cut-backs and attempts to put care into the market, the rise of health cowboys, who earn money over the back of sick, vulnerable people, for example in home care: the care landscape is in severe weather. The care landscape, the care system, is sick. It is incomprehensible and inexplicable to explain how it has come to this. How is this damage caused by successive Cabinets to be repaired? The cabinet has a duty of care to protect vulnerable values such as good care accessible to all and to protect the weak in society. Mr. Chairman. On the basis of a number of concrete examples, I would like to propose improvements. The first example is the healthy start we have to offer our children. I would like to support the indispensable work of the midwife and the caregiver for the best and the healthiest start for our children. These professions, like many other health professions, are under extreme pressure. I have received many letters of fire and e-mails from obstetricians and maternity caregivers for whom it has become too much or who ring the alarm just before it becomes too much for them. The profession of midwife, certainly of the self-employed midwife, is a major challenge, but is indispensable. Unmissable midwife care close to home is in danger of disappearing. The maternity care, indispensable for a healthy and safe start for babies at home, is slowly but surely disappearing. Due to the enormous workload, poor payment, addresses crisscrossing the region, sometimes several families a day, the valuable profession has become very heavy. Can the Minister guarantee that midwife care and maternity care will remain available in the region in order to give children the best start? These forms of care have an indispensable signalling function in the first days of a baby's life. What is the Minister going to do to support obstetricians and maternity care workers? What is the Minister going to do about the disastrous financing? In short, will there be more financial support? I would like to support the initiative of the PvdA on this issue. Mr. Chairman. If we are talking about the best start for the child, will the Minister reimburse the nursing care in the basic package? Helping you feed your baby shouldn't depend on your wallet. That's vital. It is well known that breastfeeding gives a child the best start in life, but compared to other European countries Dutch women feed relatively briefly. Early aid if it does not succeed is therefore essential. I've drawn attention to it before. Lacticians have offered petitions to the Chamber for that. I would once again like to urge the Minister to pay for maternity care in the context of prevention. Now only help with formula is reimbursed, because the child is a care seeker and not the mother. It is only logical to also compensate breastfeeding aid with the mother as a care seeker. I would also like to join in the call made by some fellow chamber members, colleagues, for the abolition of their own contribution to the outpatient delivery, i.e. for the delivery to the hospital without medical need. Mr. Chairman. The next topic I'd like to draw attention to is the glucose sensor. It gives diabetic patients receiving intensive insulin therapy a demonstrable improved quality of life, resulting in fewer doctor visits, fewer hospitalizations, less workout and a much happier, healthier and less stressful life. This device is not only important for diabetic patients; it is also a symbol of the lack of compassion and vision in the healthcare market. Because the glucose sensor is still not reimbursed to all diabetic patients receiving intensive insulin therapy. The question is why not. I see an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u142	I have a question about the previous point, the nursing care. The Christian Union has also drawn hard on this. Last year our motion was adopted to better embed lactation care in youth health care. This simply makes it available and is also reimbursed. I wonder if you have any signals that it would not be in order right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u143	According to my latest information, it is not yet reimbursed in the mother's basic insurance. If it's different, I'd like to hear it from the Christian Union. I also appreciate her work and efforts on this subject. I myself tabled motions on this last year. Then the minister said he didn't think those motions were necessary. They haven't been accepted either, but I'd like to talk to Mrs Dik-Faber to bring this to a higher level.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u144	It is indeed not covered by basic insurance, but it is an integral part of youth health care. It's got to get a place there. The nurse who comes to visit after a birth should point that out. So let us put together the question to the cabinet as to what is happening and whether it is in fact well arranged. I believe that this motion was adopted with your support. So I think it is extremely important that it should now have hands and feet. In any case, I am not getting any signals that it would not be sufficiently regulated at this time. So I'm assuming that the cabinet has taken action after this motion and that nursing care is available to anyone who wants it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u145	Yes, I would indeed ask the Minister. I think it is very important that it is also reimbursed in basic insurance, because it should not depend on your wallet if you can get nursing care. Mr. Chairman. I was talking about the glucose sensor. My story was a bit broken, but I'm going back to where I left off. In July this year a petition was launched to get the glucose sensor, of which two are variants, reimbursed. After all, a meter costs at most €4,000 a year. That sounds like a lot, but the cost of the alternative is between €800 and €3,000 per year. Then the human consideration should be to give the diabetics the most fine and safe option. Why doesn't the government choose to take prevention here too? Doesn't the Minister himself think there's been a chance? Following my parliamentary questions, the Minister also announced that the Healthcare Institute is investigating the reimbursement of one of the two variants, the Flash glucose sensor. The glucose meter which can adjust the amount of insulin itself to the glucose value and which has an alarm function does not perform that examination. I would ask the Minister to explain once again why new research is needed at all by the Healthcare Institute if many investigations have already been carried out worldwide. The glucose sensor has long been compensated in countries around us. Scientists, who often do not interfere in the discussion about fees, actively break a lance for the reimbursement of the glucose sensor. Can't this all go a little faster? If the Minister insists on the view that it should be renewed and that there is no reimbursement without research and advice from the healthcare institute, I would ask the Minister to have separate research carried out on the reimbursement of the continuous glucose sensor for diabetic patients receiving intensive insulin therapy. Along with D66, I'm considering a motion on this point. Mr Raemakers has already asked for this. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to talk about screening for cervical cancer in the transgenders. To their surprise, transgender men with wombs do not receive a call and transgender women without wombs do receive a call for population research into cervical cancer. A government website explains why this is happening. [[Sentence could not be parsed: De transgenders moeten zich na de transitie aan- of afmelden voor het onderzoek, als zij dat wensen.]] Does the Minister want to talk to the specialists to actively communicate during the transition that an active choice has to be made? Can't this be made a little easier? It cannot be intended that screening should be unintentionally missed, with all the consequences. My last topic concerns brain stem cancer in children, DIPG. This relatively rare form of cancer in children has become known to the general public by the nail polish action of Tijn and the Semmy Foundation. Many group chairmen had their nails painted and shared the result through social media with the message that they thought research was desperately needed. More scientific research aimed at prolonging life expectancy and ultimately creating a survival rate for children affected by brain stem cancer is urgently needed. At present, the survival rate for children with brain stem cancer is nil, with a life expectancy of only two to twelve months after diagnosis. This makes brain stem cancer the most lethal form of cancer, while the average survival rate of child cancer is now 75%. It is very valuable that, in addition to heart-warming private initiatives, the Empire stimulates research into the treatment of brain stem cancer in children, which gives parents and affected children hope of healing after diagnosis. That hope alone is vital. In the last 12 years, private funding initiatives such as the Semmy Foundation have helped achieve a lot. A solution is getting closer and closer thanks to the nearly 3.5 million that Semmy Foundation has donated to, among other things, the VU research. In VU, children with brain stem cancer can now undergo experimental treatment. This treatment has been pre-established in the laboratory that medications are given in the study that could inhibit the growth of the tumour. Although DIPG is a relatively rare form of cancer, in a broad sense the research focuses on all glioma in the brain in children. As a result, a possible result of this study could have a positive effect for a relatively large group of children per year. Is the Minister in favour of this? I have an amendment in preparation. Then my Chamberwide and unanimously adopted motion to make it easier for your pet to be taken to health care facilities. It was mentioned in the media, among other things, as the Christmas present to the elderly in the fight against loneliness. The proven effect on the reduction of care demand was also explicitly mentioned. The Minister thought it was a very sympathetic motion and wanted to work for it. What happened to that? Can the Minister tell us a little bit more about that? Finally. In view of my limited speaking time, which I am already over, I would like to join all the calls made by fellow members and colleagues to stop the accumulation of healthcare costs, to eliminate their own risks, to put care back on top and to restore the pleasure of their infinitely valuable work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u146	We're here. This was the first term of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-6.u147	Tomorrow at 4 p.m. we are going to listen to the answers of the rulers. I wish you all a blessed evening.
