ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u1	Let us now turn to a completely different question, that of Mr Van der Staaij on'sexist toys'. The question is addressed to the Minister for Education, Culture and Science, whom I would also like to welcome. Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I take this question from my colleague Bishop, who is still with the farmers. There are real problems when it comes to how they are put in the corner or feel put in the corner, on good grounds, because sometimes measures are being taken or are threatened with being taken over the back of the farmers. While on this subject the question really is: what is the problem? I did a little test once, while I was getting this subject on my plate, in my own group teachings. Those are people who are very happy that men and women are different. That we can just be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u3	Did you try that with dolls in the fraction of the SGP?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u4	I'm gonna explain what happened. I just asked, do you guys have the idea... I only stayed in the countryside for a while and first asked an intern from rural areas. "You used to play with tractors?" And she said: yes, I had a very nice tractor that I just played on; that was no problem. It went even further. Even when it was about the ladies' hobbies. Jenny is now doing motorcycle riding lessons and there was also a lady who in her spare time likes to ride a chainsaw on trees in the garden. In short, even in SGP-circle there is no stereotyping around toys at all. Perhaps that is different in D66 circles and you are raised so gender-neutral that you have the urgent need to play with a doll or with cars. But again, what is the problem here, Minister? You can say, "Why are you asking questions about that now?" Because the minister is going to work, and where does it go as a minister, if the government is even going to interfere with children's toys? That is a great concern we have. What exactly is the Minister going to do? Toy manufacturers appeal to the way they make advertising leaflets or whatever? Would the Minister simply like to stop doing this and get more involved with things that really matter is my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u5	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u6	Thank you, Mr President, and I thank Mr Van der Staaij for his question. What did I say last week? I actually repeated what was written on behalf of the cabinet in 2018 in the Emancipation Note, which we also discussed with your Chamber earlier. The Emancipation Note says: "By countering stereotyping, the cabinet wants to increase the freedom of everyone, men and women, girls and boys, and people who are not being pushed into a booth." What we aim to achieve is to increase everyone's freedom. Anyone who has asked in response whether the choice of toys is not ordinary to children themselves and to parents: of course, that is what it is all about! But if we leave the choice of toys to children, it's just children's toys. Then why send that choice by labeling a part of that toy in pink for girls and a part for boys? I would love it if we could just leave that freedom of choice with children, by labeling dolls, crane trucks, technical toys and legos everywhere as "child plaything." But in line with what we wrote earlier in the Emancipation Note, which I also discussed with your Chamber, I reiterated this in response to a question on French policy. No more and no less than that. I would love it if advertisers and manufacturers of toys would say that there is just generic children's toys. Then let's not send that choice in advance. Let us indeed go for the free choice of parents and children. No more and no less than that. This is simply a repetition of what we discussed with the Chamber earlier as the emancipation policy of this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u7	My core question was: what exactly is the problem? The Minister's answer is: it is in the Emancipation Note. That is indeed the problem, I think: that it is in the Emancipation Note. Apart from the fact that there is plenty of freedom of choice in practice, that is not at all the world in which people all live. But the Minister says for very ideological reasons: it is in the note and I must get on with it. I see all coalition parties except for D66 distance: Minister, please deal with real problems and leave this. We also find it scary when a government, a minister, is so close to it this way. Just trust those civilians, those parents and those kids. This is gonna be okay. You have no duties there. There are best topics where you really have to go to jail. The huge problem of party drugs is really a public health problem. The loan system for middle incomes, where people crave more perspective and solutions. But this point? Minister, are you sure you don't want to spend your time? If you actually hear so many coalition parties say "this doesn't appeal to us at all," what does that mean for the minister? Does it see sufficient support for this policy? Is she willing to stop doing this and deal with issues that we all consider really important?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u8	For the record, repeating in one sense of standing policy does not take me much time. It is precisely this freedom of choice that is at stake. I saw reactions: let's get more girls to choose technique. Wouldn't it be nice that technical legos are also advertised as toys for everyone, not only for boys but also for girls? The only thing that matters to me is to promote freedom of choice for everyone. We know from research I saw a number of researchers reflect on this last week that these stereotypes do not promote freedom of choice, but rather limit it. That was the only thrust of my comment: to support not only standing policies, but also existing expertises to increase the freedom of choice of parents and, above all, of children and not to send them in advance. No more and no less than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u9	Finally, Mr. Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u10	Finally. I notice that the problem is hardly or hardly recognized. In practice, you can see that everyone finds their own way. Parents and children experience sufficient freedom of choice. I see a lot of parties saying: we feel uncomfortable about this; a minister should not sit so close to children's toys. I can see that the same is happening in the coalition parties. Then my simple question is: Minister, do you really want to let this go, not to continue on this path and refrain from all sorts of further patronising actions in order to achieve that the real freedom, which is already there, simply continues to exist and a government does not enter the playroom?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u11	The government certainly shouldn't go into the playroom. Let's just stand together for the freedom of choice of children and parents. That is what I stand for, and I fully agree with you. The only question I would like to raise in this debate is: why send that choice in advance by labeling some things "that's for girls and that's for boys"? As far as I'm concerned, children's toys are just there for everyone. I don't understand what's against it. The only thing I have called for is that it would be good if manufacturers and advertisers took a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u12	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u13	The CDA does not consider it a task of the government to interfere with children's toys, to interfere with the choice and supply of children's toys. That's up to the shopkeepers and the parents themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u14	That was a statement by Mrs. Geluk-Poortvliet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u15	So I do not need a debate on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u16	That's clear. Thank you. The Minister may respond and otherwise I will go to Mr El Yassini of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u17	The Minister is talking about the Emancipation Note. I don't think there's anything in there about toys. Let's just say that this is the Minister of Education, MBO and Higher Education, Culture, Science and Empowerment. The minister has power and influence within her domain, I think, over 5,000 subjects, which wakes up the Netherlands, our middle class, at night. My question to the Minister is: why does she decide on all these subjects to spend her scarce and precious time on a subject that the government is absolutely not about? My proposal to the Minister is to make real success in the area of emancipation and to strengthen the position of women and their financial independence. Why don't you get to work on that and leave toys to kids?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u18	I say to Mr El Yassini: I will soon give you a cabinet position on, for example, part-time. This is because, with you, I think it is very important to promote women's financial independence. This question to me about toys came last Thursday. And I can tell you that I believe that I have spent 99.9% of my time on all those subjects you just mentioned. Only here have I said very briefly that I still support the policy as we have said before. I saw Mr El Yassini say in a response: let the Minister make sure that more girls opt for technology. I couldn't agree more. Totally. But we also know from research that the freedom of choice of girls is not promoted if it is said to them at a young age that technical LEGO and those crane trucks are more boy toys than girl toys. It's no more and no less than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u19	I still have a slightly different approach. What strikes us at the PVV is that this minister is building a reputation for interference, not only with toys, but also, for example, with that perhaps good, perhaps faint joke in Football Inside at the time. This Minister thinks he should make a huge point of this. My question to the Minister is whether she understands the position of 95% of Dutch people, the people who want freedom to laugh and do the things they want to do. And does the Minister understand that these people are greatly annoyed by the fact that you, as a D66 activist, want to intervene in these matters through your ministry? You don't do that as a minister. You do that as a D66 activist. Does the Minister understand the annoyance that prevails on the other side?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u20	The Minister is appointed by the Crown.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u21	Yes, and what this minister is trying to promote is freedom of choice, including for children, no more and no less than that. That is what I wanted to say. Mr. Beertema also mentioned a remark about football. Yes, with that remark I stand up for a lot of young people who are struggling tremendously with coming out of the closet. Such a remark had a lot of influence on them. I'd like to stand up for those young people, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u22	Thank you.
