ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-2.u1	We begin, as usual on Tuesday, with oral Question Time. Today we begin with Mrs Becker's question on behalf of the VVD about Morocco's cancellation of an appointment with the Secretary of State. I would also like to welcome the Secretary of State for Justice and Security. Mrs Becker on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The VVD wants a completely different asylum Too many people come from safe countries to the Netherlands for asylum shelters, when they have no right to do so at all. Such a country is Morocco. This morning we read in De Telegraaf that the number of applications for asylum from Morocco has increased enormously. We're already at 1,000 this year. Now the Netherlands is able to reject these people quickly, but the Netherlands is unable to effectively expel these people from the country. That is because Morocco simply refuses to cooperate. Morocco is refusing even a discussion about this. That's unacceptable to the VVD. This is because it maintains a situation of troublesome, persecuted asylum seekers in our streets and neighbourhoods. In Ter Apel, Harderwijk and Amsterdam, for example, the police have their hands full. Last week I heard from someone from The Hague's Schilderswijk who is very concerned about a group of protested Moroccans who are trying to withdraw Dutch boys from crime. That's gotta stop. The cabinet must put an end to this. For this, tough agreements are needed on the holding back of hopeless asylum seekers in a country such as Morocco, and on the withdrawal of out-of-court nationals. We've wanted that for years, but diplomatic caution isn't working. It is therefore very good that this Secretary of State has continued to insist on an appointment with Morocco. But that this appointment has now been cancelled unilaterally, shows that the time of sweet questions is now really over. Can the Secretary of State promise that, together with the entire cabinet, she will do everything in her power to make agreements with Morocco on stopping migrants there and on taking back people who have been tried out? Can it also promise that the cabinet will involve the money that goes from the Netherlands to Morocco, including through the EU, but also landing rights for high-ranking persons and possibly withdrawing or not issuing visas? For as far as the VVD is concerned, it is time for these countries not only to use the root, but also the stick. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-2.u3	I now give the floor to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you, Mr President. The Netherlands, together with the entire cabinet, my department, Justice and Security, and Foreign Affairs, is working to improve the relationship with Morocco. The relationship is complex and versatile. That has been said before. Improving our migration cooperation is high on the list. That also means the return of Moroccans who are not allowed to stay here. Return cooperation has a high priority as a whole of migration cooperation. That's clear. That wish is widely shared. I say this in response to what Mrs Becker has said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-2.u5	Mrs. Becker. Or weren't you finished?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-2.u6	I can add much more, namely that we would like to make these agreements together with the entire cabinet. I can also say that to Mrs Becker, who asked me to agree with the whole cabinet to agree with Morocco on the cabinet-wide approach. This cabinet-wide approach is also enshrined in the coalition agreement: more for more and less for less. This has already been discussed here during the budget. I would like to add that during the budget a motion by Mrs Becker has also been tabled on an overview of actions and actions that have already been taken and which are still to be undertaken in the area of more for more and less for less. That motion has been passed. We have said that the review will come in early spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-2.u7	I thank the Secretary of State for her commitment. It is, of course, extremely important that the whole cabinet should actually do this and that the cabinet should also use that stick and not just the root. It should not only be about the return, but also about stopping migration, otherwise mopping with the crane is open. I am very curious to see what the Secretary of State's perspective is on when the agreements can actually be reached. When can there be an agreement so that we really get the implementation of our motion in the spring? What are we going to do in a country such as Morocco to force them to cooperate, not only by asking for it nicely, but also by otherwise promising those tougher measures? I'd like to hear that from the Secretary of State. Furthermore, I wonder if the Secretary of State has any insight into what was in De Telegraaf this morning. What is the background to the fact that there are already 1,000 applications for asylum from people from Morocco, whereas in 2015, for example, it was only 50 a year? So there's a huge growth in that. What's the background to that? Does the Secretary of State want to investigate that? Finally, will the President-in-Office also see with her colleague of Justice and Security what we can do in the meantime, until we have these agreements, in order to prevent these people from making our streets unsafe? I am talking about locking these people up much more quickly by registering every crime and nuisance rather than what I heard the mayor of Amsterdam say, namely that this would not be possible. Can't we just lock down people from safe countries who are out of court faster anyway? The Secretary of State knows that this is a wish of the VVD. Has she already been able to find out whether it is possible to put these people in detention more quickly because they pose a risk if they evade supervision and cause nuisance in our neighbourhoods in our streets and, for example, they attract those Dutch young people in the Schilderswijk into crime? That really has to end. So I would also like a firm commitment from the Secretary of State on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-2.u8	As regards the influx of Moroccans, which has indeed been mentioned in one of the newspapers this morning, I note that there are far more safe people coming to the Netherlands than a few years ago. It's just... it's just... it's just... it's That's not just about Moroccans. There are many more people from safe countries who come to the Netherlands to ask for asylum here. That is precisely why more for more and less for less is so important. For those who cannot get asylum here because they come from a safe country, we must focus on return. Kabinetsbreed is bet on that. But that is a much wider problem than just one country. As for making it unsafe and putting it faster in detention. I have already promised the Chamber that the nuisance letter will be sent before Christmas. I think that is important, because it describes everything we do, what we can do and what problems there are with the nuisance and making it unsafe. We are really trying to find solutions that will ensure that those in residential areas suffer as little as possible from those who really screw up, because that is what it comes down to. That is what we discussed in the debate. It also looks at faster detention; that is also in the nuisance letter. We're trying to put that as best we can. Of course, there are limits to putting into detention. You are limited by laws and regulations. You can't just say, "We're gonna pin it down," because I don't like it. In the nuisance letter, we try to arrange this as much as possible in an acceptable way, so that those in residential areas and neighbourhoods who suffer from those who make the situation unsafe and cause nuisances do not suffer from it or suffer as little as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-2.u9	Thank you, Mrs Becker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-2.u10	The asylum policy fails, but also this leader of the VVD fails to make an appointment with the ambassador of Morocco. How embarrassing is this? At first, it was a misunderstanding. Oh, no, she wasn't welcome then. Then it was a misunderstanding. She was welcome then anyway. Oh, no, it wasn't, 'cause it wasn't very well arranged. I would therefore like to know from the Secretary of State exactly what traffic there has been between the Secretary of State and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. What agreements have been or have not been made with Morocco? I'd like to receive that in a letter. I would also like to know from the Secretary of State if she is prepared to leave this important file with the Foreign Office, because we cannot continue to mess this up. Sending back safelanders is really too important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-2.u11	As I said in the answers to Mrs Becker's questions, it is a cabinet-wide approach to ensure that we have a dialogue with Morocco, on all kinds of issues. Migration cooperation is part of this. That's in my field of expertise, and I wanted to talk to the ambassador about that. I'm afraid that didn't happen. But in consultation with Foreign Affairs and Justice and Security, we are working hard to ensure that we are still in good contact with each other and can take steps to get on with this dossier.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-2.u12	Your second question, Mrs. Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-2.u13	I do not think that is very fair, Mr President, because I have asked two specific questions. I asked if I could get a factual account of what exactly has been exchanged and whether the Secretary of State is prepared to submit this important dossier, namely the return of safe-landers, to her Foreign Minister. I have not received an answer to either of these questions. I find that very sad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-2.u14	I believe that I have at least received a clear answer to the second question, because in consultation with Foreign Affairs we are working on the step-by-step improvement of relations with Morocco, including in the area of migration. Migration is a responsibility that lies with Justice and Security. I'm very involved in that part.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-2.u15	Let me be honest: I find it a very uncomfortable situation to note on the one hand that the VVD is very reluctant to say what must be done here, but that in the end the Secretary of State does not really take adequate action to achieve what we need to achieve. So I ask the Secretary of State what the hell went wrong, so that we cannot really discuss the important things that we have to discuss with Morocco. Because that's how we keep each other prisoner and it won't be solved. I think that's the only thing that's gonna help people in the neighborhood. Stamp foot's not gonna do us any good. The Prime Minister has already wiped it off the table. We want action. When are we gonna see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-2.u16	I also explained it to Mrs Becker. We are busy with this complex and sometimes complicated relationship with Morocco. This concerns many issues, and one of them is migration cooperation. For that part, Justice and Security is on the table. Together with the Foreign Office, we are working hard to move forward those steps that can be taken forward. That's complicated indeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-2.u17	Second question, Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-2.u18	Mr President, unfortunately I too do not get an answer to the question as to what went wrong. As a result, we are now almost a step further from a solution than we have come one step closer. My question is therefore specific: can the Secretary of State give us a little more clarity as to what will be coming to us in December, at the end of December? We have been given a motion to get some sort of systematic approach. We would like the Return Directive to be adopted at European level. Are those matters with which the Secretary of State is effectively working? 'Cause we're gonna get somewhere. Then we don't have to talk every time about how the weather failed to come to the table with each other, but then there is actually chess at that table.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-2.u19	As far as the systematic approach is concerned, I have just said to Mrs Becker, and Mrs Van Toorenburg knows that the burden letter will come before Christmas. In this we try to explain as clearly and as clearly as possible what the problem of nuisance is and how we really do our best to deal with it, to deal with it as best we can. The point is that the people who suffer from nuisance in the neighbourhoods, who suffer as little as possible, or rather, may no longer have any trouble at all. We are doing our utmost to map this well and to indicate how we are trying to solve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-2.u20	I think we can conclude that Morocco is simply putting the Netherlands in his shirt. A while ago, we signed the Marrakech Pact. We didn't like it at all. It's a lousy pact. But at least we expected an agreement between Morocco and the Netherlands. It's the least you can expect. I wonder how the Secretary of State sees this in the light of the Marrakesh Pact. Does she think with me that we should just put that thing in the shredder?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-2.u21	I am sorry that the agreement did not go through, because I wanted to talk to the Ambassador about migration cooperation in a broad sense. I think that would have been important, too, but we keep that dialogue in dialogue, between Foreign Affairs and Justice and Security. We're trying to do that one step at a time. Again, also in the light of the cabinet-wide approach and of what was agreed in the coalition agreement, about more for more and less for less.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-2.u22	What a mess. We're seeing a secretary of state who's being rejected by Morocco. We see a foreign minister saying, "Don't look back, move on." We see Prime Minister Rutte who said a day or ten ago: nothing wrong, relations with Morocco are excellent. So that was bullshit, we know now. Meanwhile, the inhabitants are victims of the nuisance caused by displaced Moroccan asylum seekers. How's the Secretary of State gonna fix this mess? Does she recognise that what has happened so far is extremely painful?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-2.u23	I'll put it back on the agenda. I'll be in the Chamber before Christmas. It contains exactly what the problems are, how we approach them and how we try to find the best possible solution for everyone. That too is a complex issue, but we have promised it to the Chamber and we are going to do so. As far as relations with Morocco are concerned, it is right that Foreign Affairs and Justice and Security should move forward in consultation step by step to ensure that we get in touch with each other in order to discuss this issue in depth, including migration cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-2.u24	Second question, Mr. Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-2.u25	Mr President, I think you should also take a look at the extent to which the questions are being answered. Because I asked the Secretary of State how she qualified last week, if she agrees that it's painful what happened. That was my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-2.u26	Someone cancels an appointment can happen. Those things can happen. It's as simple as that. I must tell you quite frankly that I am extremely sorry that I have not been able to speak with the Moroccan Ambassador about migration cooperation in a broad sense. That was the point of the conversation. But it is. We shouldn't make it bigger than it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-2.u27	Then Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-2.u28	The reason we are making it bigger than it is, at least according to the Secretary of State, is only three weeks ago the Secretary of State in the same place she is now saying: I was refused by Morocco, I am not welcome. In second term, she said, "I can't talk to the people I need to talk to there." Then other members of the cabinet went on to say: no, it is an agenda technical problem. Then we were told that the agenda technical problem had been solved. And now we hear there hasn't been a conversation at all. So you can try to make it small, but it is the Secretary of State himself who has begun to cast doubt on whether she is welcome in Morocco. That question is still on the agenda. What is it now? Is it an agenda problem? Isn't she welcome? Doesn't Morocco want to talk about it? We all know that the complex is, but what is the reason why that conversation still hasn't taken place?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-2.u29	For the reason why the Moroccan ambassador indicated that the conversation could not take place last Thursday, I cannot go into it. It is the Moroccan ambassador who should say something about that. It didn't happen. That's one thing. And I regret that, because I would very much like to talk to the Moroccan ambassador about migration cooperation in a broad sense, but, as I said, we should not make it bigger than it is. We are moving forward step by step to ensure that we can achieve this good cooperation and we can talk about the issues that are so very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-2.u30	Second question, Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-2.u31	It's too late to make it small. It was the Secretary of State himself who made it very big here three weeks ago. She used the words "I'm not welcome there, I don't get to talk to the right people, I'm refused there." We did not say that, Morocco did not say that, but this Secretary of State said that. And now she says, "We shouldn't make it bigger than it is." Mr President, the Secretary of State seems to have completely lost control of the issue of how we can discuss with Morocco meaningfully the return of tried Moroccans. I want to ask her how she intends to get that control back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-2.u32	Together with Foreign Affairs, Justice and Security are working hard to ensure, step by step, that we move forward in terms of the complex relationship with Morocco and that we can continue to discuss the issues that concern both the Netherlands and Morocco.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-2.u33	If we want to send back people from Morocco who apply for asylum but are not entitled to do so and cause a great deal of nuisance and sometimes even criminal offences, then we must have Morocco's cooperation. It is sad, therefore, that this is not going well. The position of the VVD in that is very clear. Those who say: the knot about it, Morocco must be forced. I hear the Secretary of State say: no, more for more and less for less, so I'm more nuanced in that. I agree with the Secretary of State. That seems to me to be a wise choice. My question to the Secretary of State is then what she is actually going to offer Morocco so that we can indeed send those people back to Morocco and we are done with them and we do not undermine the support for our asylum system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-2.u34	I have just said that more for more and less for less is in line with the coalition agreement and also requires a cabinet-wide approach, but I do not think it will help diplomatic traffic if I say here: we are going to go this, we are going to go that, we are going to go sister, we are going to go like this. There's a government-wide agreement on how we're gonna do things. As a result of Mrs Becker's motion, I have promised that we will have an overview of what has already happened in the early spring of 2020 and what can be agreed. So the actions that are to come in this area and what has already happened are coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-2.u35	Second question by Mr Groothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-2.u36	On a point of order, Mr President, because like several colleagues, I note that there is no answer to the question. There is then a reference to diplomatic relations. Well, if we can establish anything, it's that they're already bad. So I am not going to put a second question to it, but I find it disappointing that every question we put here as a Chamber is not really being answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-2.u37	Yes, but it still counts as a second question, Mr. Groothuizen. The same was true of Mrs Kuik and Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-2.u38	It is a bit scandalous to see how the Netherlands is put to shit here by Morocco and how the Secretary of State lets her ears hang on to that. The other parties all have kilos of butter on their heads, because every time the PVV makes proposals or makes motions with the aim of "taking up, securing, deporting, sending illegal persons who have no right of residence back to where they come from, on the plane," they do not respond and vote against it. Meanwhile, these parties are blowing high off the tower and pretending to think it's all very horrible, but the problem is caused by themselves. My question to the Secretary of State is: are you prepared to amend the laws and regulations that prevent you from banging the scum out of the country? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-2.u39	I have answered several of the questions put by the Members of Parliament. For Christmas, I have already promised to do so on account of what has been discussed here earlier, and there will be a letter of nuisance to the Chamber, which states what the nuisance is, how it is put together, what we can do about it, and what measures we will take to ensure that the nuisance can be reduced to a minimum and perhaps even zero. Zero's not gonna work out, but at least we're trying to do our best. I have said before that I will try to find the limits of the law, but I am not going over the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-2.u40	Your second question, Mr. Emiel van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-2.u41	Then perhaps it is time to change the laws and regulations that hinder you from taking action and putting things in order. But having said that, how the hell do you think you can solve the problem? Two days ago, you sent a letter to the Chamber in which you wrote: we have a lot of trouble from squatters who are out of proceedings, who are illegal, who are not allowed to be here, but if those people do not want to talk to the Return and Departure Service, there is actually nothing we as a government can do to send those people back sender. If you give such an answer, do you think that in this position you are the right person to deal with the problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-2.u42	As I have just said, the nuisance letter will provide a great deal of clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-2.u43	Thank you.
