ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is the amendment of the Health and Force Law on psychogeriatric and mentally handicapped clients and the Law on the Occupations in Individual Health Care in connection with the introduction of the Wzd Officer. We have seven participants on the side of the Chamber. A warm word of welcome, of course, to the Minister. I'm glad you're back with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u2	The first speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Slootweg of the CDA group. He has asked for 15 minutes' speaking time. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are dealing with the amendment of the Health and Force Act psychogeriatric and mentally handicapped clients. In brief: the Wzd. It is a law that has a long history and the intention is to introduce it on 1 January 2020. Forced care for people with intellectual disabilities or people with psychiatric problems deserves a separate legal framework. So far, these target groups have been included in the BOPZ. Mr. Chairman. It would be wise to outline the framework. Today we are talking about an amendment to the Health and Force Act, which has become necessary by an amendment tabled by Mrs Leijten to the Mental Health Act. The amendment is necessary because it is possible to restore the article which has been deleted by mistake in the Law on compulsory mental health care and because it is proposed to allow the behavioral physician the orthopedagog-generalist to act as a WZD official. And that is why we are discussing this today. Mr. Chairman. A few months ago, I went to work. One case struck me deeply. A boy hurt himself compulsively. The person lived on site for five days. On the weekends, he went back to his family. I saw how behaviorists were trying to reduce the restrictive measures that prevented him from hurting himself as much as possible. It also became clear to me that this is going to go with falling and getting up and how difficult it was when that boy went back to his family on the weekends. The effect of the method of applying as little freedom-limiting measures as possible can be reversed by a visit at home. A struggle of desperate parents and patient treatment. It gets under your skin. There are no easy solutions. Also when preparing this legal treatment, I noticed that it is not 100% black or 100% white, but that it is a balancing act in which you want to do justice to vulnerable people, to doctors and behavioral experts involved and to search for family members, and in which you want to encourage the search for measures other than freedom-limiting measures without creating a bureaucratic and administrative Christmas tree. Mr. Chairman. As a result of the amending law, I would like to discuss a number of issues: firstly, the position of the Wzd officer, secondly, the external expert, and thirdly, the way in which a client should be informed of the fact that he is entitled to support by an independent client confidant and finally the date of entry of the law. The Wzd official. The amendment to include a Wzd doctor in the law was supported by Parliamentary support. By inserting a Wzd doctor into the Care and Force Act, the legal protection of people who are confronted with coercive measures in long-term care is regulated in an equivalent way to that of people in mental health care. The CDA raised the question of whether people with intellectual and/or psychiatric disabilities still hold an equivalent form of legal protection as a result of this amendment of the law. I found the Government's response somewhat brief on this particular point. Does the Minister consider that the letter of amendment ensures that the legal protection of the aforementioned target groups is better protected than the legislative amendment? Is it true that the Minister is responding to the concern that someone who is not medically educated can check the comprehensive care plan for people with mental disabilities including medical judgement? The CDA can follow the fact that the position of Wzd official is open to behavioural experts including the amendment to the BIG Act. In view of the letter of amendment, it calls for good consultation between the behaviorist and the doctor in any case of forced care. In view of the review of this law, three years after its entry into force, I explicitly ask the Minister whether the experience of granting the powers to impose coercive measures by the EZ psychologist and the orthopedagogic can be taken into account in the evaluation. Are the experiences of clients, client confidants and family included in this evaluation? The letter of amendment makes a number of restrictions, measures reserved for doctors. The Wzd official was allowed to take restrictive measures in an original form everywhere, but this letter of amendment limits this. I have a number of questions about that too. Is it not ensured that the doctor is placed above the behaviorist? Is this the intention and, if so, why? Then the position of the external expert.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u4	A question from Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u5	Yeah, because it's specifically about this point. The criticism that comes from disability care, in particular, is that with the last amendment by the minister of this law, the doctor, Mr Slootweg, says that, in many respects, Mr Slootweg is given the power to ultimately assume responsibility, for example in the case of medication, restrictions on freedom and containment. I think that is a very good thing. In fact, we still argue that the doctor should hold the final responsibility. The question is: what is left for the behaviorist to decide independently? Does the CDA, therefore, think it would be more logical for Mr Slootweg simply to find a link with how it is now regulated, namely that the doctor bears the final responsibility and that it can give the behavior expert a certain role in good consultation or in mandating? Well, that makes more sense, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u6	Thank you for Mr Hijink's question, because it is an important part of this debate. In addition, I am really looking for the right answer to that. We have also asked whether it is not wise to leave certain matters for which medical judgement is necessary to a doctor, for example to avoid tunnel vision, in the sense that you think that all problems are behavioral in nature. On the other hand, I can also imagine that you are looking at too much alone at the medical cause, where you could say that the behavioral expert is more competent for it. Or by means of mandating, for example, I really want to hear the Minister's answers. For me, it is important that, as far as vulnerable people are concerned, there is good consultation between the doctor and the behavioral expert.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u7	On that last point, I fully agree. The crux is in the cooperation between the different disciplines. That's the most important thing. The crucial question is where the final responsibility lies. Can Mr Slootweg give examples of decisions, decisions in the context of involuntary care which should now be left to behavioural experts as far as he is concerned, taking into account the changes proposed by the Minister that medication, containment and freedom-limiting measures should not be included? What then remains of the decisions that the behavioral expert should take on his own?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u8	In the example I gave, it was really a compulsive act that I can't exactly check out, also because I'm not a doctor myself, whether that's in the person's behavior or that it has a medical cause. If it is analysed that the reason why the person wants to injure himself every time is more of a behaviorist, then I do not want to say in advance that a doctor must bear the ultimate responsibility for that. Then it could also be very good that it is worn by the behavioral expert. That makes it very difficult. You can't tell directly if it's medical or behavioral. That is why I find it difficult to say whether it should always be with the doctor or not, but perhaps I am convinced in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u9	Rounding off, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u10	It can be short, because the crux is of course that a doctor has had a much longer and more extensive training than a zz psychologist or an orthopedagogic generalist. This is of course important, because certainly a doctor for the mentally handicapped is aware of the problems of people with disabilities, of course, is aware of the medical problems, but also of the behavioural side. That is precisely why it is very obvious that he can judge that very broad scope, not on his own, but always in good cooperation with behavioral experts. I would therefore urge Mr Slootweg to take that into consideration, because it is precisely in the example he mentions, someone who hurts himself, who hurts himself, that it is extremely important that a doctor is involved, remains and can even bear the final responsibility. I also think that this is an unfortunate example, precisely because it concerns pain and pain relief on all sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u11	I am very sorry that it is seen as unfortunate when my examples are not clear. I'm really trying to get a serious look at where to put the center of gravity here. I've made visits and had conversations. It didn't stop at that one visit. You also notice very often that a doctor himself doesn't say that he's being sent. I don't say that he gets a lot of information from a behaviorist. At the moment the judgment of the behavioral sec is actually leading. This does not allow the doctor to shuffle responsibility, but it is the question whether the person who advises to take the freedom-limiting measure is actually the doctor or whether it is the official, the behavioral expert.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u12	Clear. You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u13	Mr. Chairman. I will continue my story with the position of the external expert. The amendment also provides for a reduction in the scope of the amendment. The external expert will only have to be involved if it has not succeeded in reducing the involuntary care within the stated terms of Article 10 of the Wzd. The Minister's reply shows that this was done for the following reason. I quote: 'However, the government is convinced that this will save implementation costs, especially among large healthcare providers, who often already have a wide range of relevant expertise within their own organisation, and who are no longer required to acquire the necessary expertise from elsewhere'. This is a difficult point for the CDA. This is a law, as the government itself always says and as the history of law shows, which wants to avoid involuntary care as much as possible. The "no, unless" principle is guiding. During the legal treatment, there was an obligation to consult an external expert at the stage where involuntary care is considered, where family or the person himself does not want to receive involuntary care and/or finds that he or she does not need it. This piece of the law is now being deleted. The reason the cabinet gives for this is strange to us. The government states that it is convinced that this will save implementation costs. They continue to state that this is particularly the case with larger healthcare providers. Undoubtedly, it is because I do not get very warm feelings when the term 'big healthcare providers' comes to mind, but even when considering how to save implementation costs in relation to the imposition of coercive or coercive measures, I wonder whether the scale is not going to the wrong direction. My question is, therefore, what is the situation with smaller organisations that do not have the expertise and care at home? Just watching in the home situation and what else can be done there before being forced into care is very important, especially when it comes to heavier forms of coercive care. Transparency, especially in the home situation, when forced care is started, creates an open organisational structure in which professionals can learn from each other. Why didn't the Minister choose to keep this in the law until the period of the review of this law, to examine during the evaluation whether the external expert has added value at the start of involuntary care or not? Isn't it weird that the external isn't gonna be watching until we finish? Is it not true that it is less clear for an outsider what consideration has been made at the start of the involuntary care? Is it not better, from the perspective of client and family, to have the external look at from the start of the process? Therefore, the CDA is considering submitting an amendment to regulate the original role of the external expert legally. If the evaluation shows that this article of legislation has no added value in practice and leads to excessive regulatory burden in relation to the added value, this article of legislation can be deleted as far as I am concerned. It's about forced care, and that's not something frivolous. Isn't the reversal strengthening the client's position? I'd like to hear the Minister's statement on this. Then the client confidant. We are very positive about the inclusion that the client must be actively informed about the possibility of assistance by the client confidant, in a manner consistent with the client's needs and comprehension capacity. This calls on traders to really get to the client's level of communication. In our opinion, that is profit: not about them, but with them. However, we believe that there is still a world to be won in nursing homes, institutions for people with intellectual disabilities and care at home as regards the active involvement of the client confidant. In other sectors, such as forced ggz, this is further developed. There this function is further developed and better known. The sectors of mental care or psychiatry can learn from this, we think. Can the Minister promote this? Finally, the date of introduction. On 16 April 2019 organisations such as ActiZ, NIP, V&VN, LHV, NVAVG, Verenso and Zorgthuis.nl sent a letter about the entry into force of the Health and Force Act. The Minister indicated in the note following the report that he would consult with these parties to discuss their concerns. Is it true that the outcome of this consultation is that there will be a transition year? If so, what exactly does the transition year mean from the point of view of the client for whom coercive care is imposed? What are the exact rights of the client? What does this mean for the Wzd Officer and to what extent is the Wzd Officer held responsible for imposing coercive measures which are not entirely in accordance with the new law? From the reactions of these organisations, I understand that the concerns are mainly in questions about the enforcement of the law and about the situations at home. There is no legal framework for this now, and this law will do that. But how does the Inspectorate deal with this when the law comes into force? Is there room, for example, for the first year after the entry into force of the law to learn in practice and sometimes to make mistakes? To what extent will the Inspection maintain immediately from its entry into force? Or does she see organisations in terms of forced care as learning organisations? Mr. Chairman. My group believes it is important that the new law be introduced by 1 January 2020, especially for those professionals and institutions that have been preparing for this for a long time. The law doesn't come unexpectedly. It must not be the case that coercive measures are being applied lightly, not even in the home situation. Today, there is no legal basis to regulate this. However, we hope that, as soon as the law is reviewed, serious consideration will be given to reducing the administrative burden. That is why I want to conclude on a national scrap day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u14	Then we will listen to Mr Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u15	Thank you, Mr President. I was just at the presentation of the De Winter Committee's report. The De Winter Committee has investigated the violence in youth care since the Second World War, so after 1945. The Minister was there and received the report. I was impressed by this presentation, because we have heard very painful examples of how for years, decades, hard hand, compulsion and violence were found to be commonplace. We've heard examples of young girls tied up on wooden couches because they didn't want to eat. And while they were tied up, they had the food pushed down their throats. And when it came out again, they were forced to eat their vomit. It's not like this anymore, I hope. We all think so, but it happened, even in our country, not so long ago. And we also know that things like this can still happen in our country. I think it's important to report this, because we're discussing a law here about involuntary care, about coercive care. So it's not just about the abuse we've seen in childhood care, but also about how coercion, involuntary care and the hard hand have been very common for a very long time. And just under this law, before I start, I want to make it clear that it is so very important that this should never be normalized. Force can never become the norm. So that. Mr. Chairman. When discussing the original bill on the new Health and Force Act, my predecessor Renske Leijten said that it is forbidden in our country to rob someone of his freedom. I think it is important to stress this: locking up, tying up and drugging are interventions that have a major impact on people, but which unfortunately are still applied regularly in healthcare. I think we can agree that such measures should be kept to a minimum. It shouldn't be normal. The starting point must always be to stop situations of compulsion as quickly as possible. My predecessor, Mr Leijten, has worked hard for years to protect the rights of residents and institutions in the best possible way. This is very important, because people living in care for the elderly and in disability should not be treated differently than anyone else who has to do with compulsion care, for example in the ggz, but also in the prison system. The House of Representatives previously supported that line of the SP. The Leijten amendment was widely adopted: 146 votes in favour and only four against. This amendment enshrined in the law that the supervision of coercive measures is always carried out by a competent doctor. This has strengthened the legal protection of the elderly and the disabled and brought them into line with those in other sectors, such as, for example, in the ggz sector. The legislative proposal we are discussing today is essentially aimed at getting this widely adopted amendment out of the law. The Minister wants to broaden the final responsibility for coercive care, so that not only a doctor, but soon also an orthopedagogic generalist or an EZ psychologist can make this decision. Mr. Chairman. The SP Group does not think that is a good choice. It is strange that a distinction is made in the way in which involuntary care can be imposed in ggz, care for the elderly and care for the disabled. The legislative proposal thus also affects the equality of law between the different groups of clients and patients. The SP finds it very logical that a doctor bears the final responsibility for the decision to impose involuntary care. Of course, in practice, the Wzd doctor will often rely on the judgment of the orthopedagogic or the EZ psychologist, but with that the doctor first removes any doubts about medical causes. That is, of course, a crucial element, as was stated in that amendment. It is obvious to maintain the role of the doctor. First, a medical cause of problem behaviour should be excluded, so that unnecessary use of coercion can be avoided. I ask the Minister if he agrees. In his last amendment to the present bill, the Minister explicitly states that containment, freedom restriction and medication should only be imposed after the consent of a doctor. Can the Minister explain this? What measures can an orthopedagogic eye carry out on its own? And for what measures does a doctor's consent be required? Is the taking of a telephone, for example, a measure restricting freedom? Seems like it to me. And what about sensors on a door that indicate if the client leaves his room? A bicycle that is forced to be chained up, for example to prevent someone from running off at night, is a restriction of freedom. My question to the Minister is whether, even under the last amendment of his law, this is, in his view, measures that require the consent of a doctor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u16	I must say that, when I read the law, I initially had a bit of the same reaction as Mr Hijink: shouldn't it always be the doctor? In the meantime, I have had many contacts, including with the disabled sector. He has said: sometimes a doctor is indeed needed as a Wzd doctor, but sometimes it can also be a behavioral expert. It should be more often a behavioral expert, because an intellectual limitation is not, of course, equivalent to a disease. My question to Mr Hijink is: what does he think of the input from the practical point of view, from the disabled sector itself, that one wants to have the flexibility sometimes to use a doctor, but more often because of the practice of being a behavioral expert?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u17	I understand that question very well. I myself have had these conversations with the disabled sector. I also understand very well what they are saying. I believe the ratio there is about 80/20. They say that in 80% of the situations in which involuntary care is imposed, there is a problem of behaviour that is not so much a medical cause. It could be. But it is precisely in order to avoid going in the wrong direction, to find that it is a behavioral problem that it is important that there should always be a doctor for the mentally handicapped in this case to rule out, in principle, that there can not be a medical cause. I shall come to that point with an example later. Pain can be a reason for aggression. A doctor, certainly a doctor for the mentally handicapped, has been trained to assess both the medical side and that very wide palette. Does he do that on his own? No, of course not. He always does so in cooperation and in good consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u18	Of course, it will always be a match between that Wzd officer and the attending doctor, the caretaker. I have been convinced that the proposal is not a kind of black and white situation. It's not always a behavioral officer or always a doctor. No, you can see what's going on with a client and apply customization based on that. Of course, if there's anything medical going on, it's important to ask that doctor's feedback and input. But the disability sector is, of course, different from the ggz sector, and also different from the nursing home sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u19	That's right, that's absolutely true. I also discussed with Mr Slootweg just now that the proposal, the latest changes proposed by the Minister himself, is another step towards the Leijten amendment. The aim is to consult the doctor in many areas. Apparently, the Minister himself also believes that it is wise in all these areas to have a broad-educated person who has also studied for a longer time in these different areas. I have not yet mentioned the equality of law that we believe should exist between the different sectors of care. I would find it very strange that in prison or in ggz people have greater legal protection than, for example, in the care of the elderly or in the care of the disabled. I don't think that's okay and we shouldn't get started on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u20	I have another question to ask to understand this particular point made by Mr Hijink. The Wzd official is ultimately responsible for going through the roadmap to achieve involuntary care. In that step-by-step plan, the involvement of a doctor, of someone with a medical background, is also secured. Then where exactly is Mr Hijink's concern that if the Wzd official is not a doctor but a ggz psychologist or an orthopedagogic doctor, that medical knowledge would not be given sufficient place in the assessment of the care?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u21	I wonder if that first point is true. I will ask the Minister later whether this is actually the case, whether the doctor is always involved in the roadmap. I do not think that is necessarily the case. If a behaviorist does not suspect a medical cause, then I do not think that a doctor should be consulted automatically or even approved by a doctor. Anyway, I'll check with the minister to see if that's true. That's the whole discussion we're having here. I would be in favour of you working together in a team in this respect, the roadmap looks very good on the one hand, that several disciplines are watching, but that the final responsibility is sector-widely equal. If you go from one institution to another, you shouldn't suddenly end up in a completely different regime. That would be really weird, wouldn't it? That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u22	Then we will indeed await the Minister's reply. The way I read it, the doctor's involvement in the step-by-step plan is secured. That is also the multidisciplinary consultation you are referring to. As far as I am concerned, there is no question of legal inequality or differences, because the Wzd official oversees and is ultimately responsible for going through that roadmap. This is separate from the medical knowledge, which in my opinion is contained in the roadmap. But let's wait for that answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u23	No, but of course it's not that it doesn't matter who you hold a certain responsibility to. It does matter. It is very important that, for example in the ggz, for example in the prison system, there are explicit agreements about who bears the final responsibility for coercive care or involuntary care. If you're going to scale that down in the other sectors, you're going to get an uneven position between those two client and patient groups. That is what we want to prevent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u24	Fine. You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u25	Someone's coming, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u26	Mr. Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think this is an interesting point. So I understand very well that Mr Hijink says: I really am concerned that a doctor is ultimately responsible. 'Cause about scaling down, the law rules that there's just someone who's ultimately responsible, right? At least that's how I read it myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u28	Sure. It's a doctor. Only, the sector can also choose to appoint either an EZ psychologist or an orthopedagogic generalist as final manager, not only about individual involuntary care but also about the whole policy within an organisation. That is, of course, a responsibility which goes a little further and deeper and which, as far as I am concerned, is an additional reason for keeping that doctor as the final responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u29	Why I ask this is, of course, that the practice very often indicates that the behavioral expert, the gz psychologist, is, in fact, dealing with the client on a daily basis, while a doctor sometimes goes there much less often. Isn't there something to say to invest, precisely because there is a daily relationship, some parts, at the moment when we rule out that it has a medical cause, with that behavioral expert?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u30	Yes, that is a bit in line with the proposal that the KNMG has also made, which I think is quite a good proposal. That could be some kind of in-between. We are also working on an amendment to ride that in the law. Only it's technically complicated, so that's gonna take a little while; I hope it comes today. So you would say: a doctor has the final responsibility and he can leave certain parts to a behaviorist per mandate. With this you create one line for the whole sector, there is clarity about who bears the final responsibility, behavioral experts know that they can do things, but that doctor is always the backup who bears the responsibility for coercive care within the institution for that individual patient, or client.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u31	Rounding up. Then I understand that the SP is really done: even if it is someone who is working on it every day, you cannot divide it. There must be one final responsibility; you cannot divide responsibility according to the origin of the reason why compulsive care is imposed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u32	If that were to happen, what Mr Slootweg wants, then you run the risk of getting a total fragmentation of that responsibility over involuntary care. Then it may mean that it is in one institution and EZ psychologist, in the other institution an orthopedagogic generalist, in another institution another doctor. We think that inequality is undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u33	I've heard you in this round, Mrs Hermans. But let's go, one question, short and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u34	Mr. Chairman. This is, of course, at the heart of the bill we are discussing today and I am still listening to Mr Hijink. I understand very well where his concerns and questions come from, but just at the last point, your interrupting debate with Mr Slootweg...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u35	Mr. Hijink's interrupting debate with Mr. Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u36	Excuse me, Mr Hijink and Mr Slootweg. It is also part of this amendment that the orthopedagogic eye is added to the BIG law and that the powers of these various officials are also well defined, so that a client also knows exactly what someone can and cannot do and that legal protection is therefore also regulated?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u37	Yes, but the fact that someone gets a BIG registration doesn't mean he's on an equal footing. That's not what I'm talking about. A nurse is BIG registered, so is a brain surgeon. That does not mean that they are in an equal position when it comes to accountability to their actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u38	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u39	I would have stuck to that example. When is a measure now a measure restricting freedom? I mentioned all the sensors on a door. I mentioned the bike on the chain. I wonder how the Minister looks at that. In this context, I cannot think of many other measures that would not be covered by the new amendment to this law proposed by the Minister. Can the Minister respond to the reaction of the Dutch Disability Association, which, together with other organisations of psychologists and educators, say that these last changes to the law actually nullify the original proposal? These organisations want non-doctors to be ultimately responsible for coercive care and say that the new demands of the minister make it virtually impossible for a non-doctor to do so. What does the Minister think of this criticism? I'd like to get a reaction to that. The question then is, of course, what exactly is the point of this whole change of law, if doctors are dissatisfied on the one hand because the role of the Wzd doctor is being removed, while on the other hand professional groups are also dissatisfied because they feel that the last amendment would reverse the whole purpose of the change of law. So that's a great achievement: that no one is actually happy with this law. In the end, isn't it much smarter, wiser and clearer to just keep the Wzd doctor alive, so everyone knows where he is? That would also be very much in line with the almost parliamentary support for the Leijten amendment. I ask the Minister if he agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u40	I would like to test whether I understand Mr Hijink correctly. Does it mean that he says that if his wish is not followed, plan B is that the Wzd official is possible in a broader sense than just the doctor? That it would be wise, on the contrary, to reverse that letter of amendment, and that would make more sense?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u41	But then you mean undoing the last letter of amendment? No, because with that last letter of amendment, the Minister is working himself in trouble, but of course he is meeting us a little bit. He gives the doctor a more prominent role in this. In my view, this role is such that the whole legislative proposal is virtually meaningless.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u42	Now Mr. Hijink says "looks a bit towards me," but on the other hand it just becomes more unclear. He actually invites to make a clear choice for one or the other. I could actually follow him in that. Then say: choose the doctor, as I advocate. If you opt for broader than the doctor, namely other behavioral experts, then leave that letter of amendment in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u43	No, the Minister must know for himself what he will or will not withdraw or propose. We, as SP, propose, in line with the Leijten amendment at the time, that the doctor should be held ultimately responsible and not shredded, because it affects the equality and legal protection of people. I very much invite the Minister to keep that letter of amendment in mind. But I'm curious how he'll look at what's left of this law. Mr. Chairman. The route proposed by the Minister now creates uncertainty, as we have already said. A nursing home can appoint a ggz psychologist as a Wzd official, while the knowledge of a specialist in the care of the elderly is of great importance in the care of the elderly. If there are mental problems or behavioral problems, I do not think that the step-by-step plan automatically regulates that a doctor should be consulted. I had the debate on this with Mrs Hermans. That goes for containment, freedom restriction and medication, but that's all, if I understand it correctly. I'm asking the Minister if I understand correctly. Why does the Minister choose this route? What is really wrong with the existing practice, in which a doctor has the ultimate responsibility for mentally handicapped persons or a specialist in the care of the elderly and can rely very heavily on the knowledge and skills of behavioral experts? The proposal also opens up the possibility that considerations other than health considerations will determine who will assume the role of Wzd official. A non-doctor may be cheaper than a doctor and perhaps easier to find. If such considerations play a role in the decision, customer rights and the quality of care can be harmed. The Minister states that the involvement of a doctor with the roadmap is sufficiently guaranteed. I'd like to get an explanation as to why that's true. If a doctor will be consulted regularly, why not stick to the existing practice? Behavioural experts shall determine, under the ultimate responsibility of a doctor, what coercive care is needed and how quickly it can be reduced. Why does the Minister reject this order? Mr. Chairman. Those who read the Minister's explanatory statement can hardly but conclude that financial considerations and the consideration of reducing the regulatory burden in particular in disability care are decisive for this minister. And, of course, that's not possible. If there is a shortage of doctors in disability care, then the Minister must solve that problem. If there's too much paperwork in disability care, he has to deal with bureaucracy. He should not violate the rights of clients, but make sure that doctors can do this important work. The Minister states that if the Wzd official is a doctor, this entails additional costs and associated administrative burdens. But this is a very important and often very difficult decision, which seriously restricts people's freedom. My question to the Minister is whether the cost aspect is more important to him than guaranteeing those important decisions on the restriction of human freedoms. We have just talked about the argument that involuntary care is often imposed on disabled people in connection with behavioural problems. That argument is irrelevant to the legal protection of the client. After all, the doctor is specialised in caring for this target group, and this doctor can, in close consultation with behavioral experts, make assessments which enable compulsion care without overlooking medical problems. Let me give you an example. Problematic behaviour and aggression can be a result of pain. Removing that pain, with pain relief, can reduce aggression. In the care of the elderly, this means that understanding of a sick image of people with dementia is at least as relevant as knowledge of psychiatric problems or behavioural problems. And that is precisely why it is important for clients and their families to know that a doctor ultimately decides on involuntary care because he or she is trained to be able to see the coherence in all these different areas of care. Mr. Chairman. This change of law is difficult to explain when you look at the importance that both the First Chamber and the Second Chamber attach to the coherence between the rules for coercive care in the ggz on the one hand, and in the care of the elderly and the disabled on the other. The Minister breaks this connection by treating clients and patients differently. Then why should we stick to the final responsibility of the medical director, who is always a doctor, in the ggz? Why not place responsibility in the ggz with a gz-psychologist? Of course, the SP is not in favour of this, but it does show the inconsistency in this minister's thinking. He also shows that this change opens the door to further shredding and possibly scaling down the responsibility for coercive care. Does the Minister recognise the risk that if you delegate it to one profession, a first step has been taken to delegate it to other professions? I'd like to hear a response to that. Mr. Chairman. A difference in the need for care should never lead to a difference in legal protection. I also refer to the UN Convention on equal rights for people with disabilities. The purpose of this Convention is to protect people with disabilities and to safeguard their rights. This Convention states that the legal status of people must not be changed because things are organised differently or because people are different. To what extent has the Minister assessed this law under this Convention? Can the Minister explain how the present bill we are discussing today has been tested against other international conventions? Mr President, I mentioned that the SP is working on an amendment that is in line with the KNMG's call to leave the final responsibility for involuntary care with the Wzd doctor. I think I have made it sufficiently clear why we are in favour of this. In addition, it is perfectly possible for the EZ psychologist or the orthopedagogic generalist to take on certain tasks under the mandate of the Wzd-doctor, also in the context of the involuntary care. That is what we will propose in the amendment, and the KNMG also proposes this. But by clarifying the final responsibility for involuntary care, both clients and caregivers always know where they stand. I ask the Minister to respond to this amendment, which he has not yet seen. That is complicated, but he may be able to respond to the KNMG's proposal, which is virtually in line with the amendment. Mr. Chairman. The SP would like to know from the Minister why clients in the care of the elderly and disabled are given less rights when it comes to involving the client confidant. The BOPZ established an obligation for the institutions to notify clients in writing of the measures taken, the opportunities for appeal and the involvement of a client-confidence person. The Minister's last proposal goes less far. Why? Why not draw a line here with the mandatory ggz Act? Why a weakening of rights, such as those currently in force under the BOPZ? Does the Minister agree with the SP that we are dealing specifically with extra vulnerable people in the care of the elderly and in the care of the disabled, who, at the time of considering or applying coercive care, may not be able to see the situation properly? It is then important for them and their representatives to have in writing and to have the reasons why certain measures have been taken. This is also important in order to be able to check whether this process has been conducted carefully. The SP has also tabled an amendment on this point. We understand perfectly well that the written information of clients is seen by some caregivers as difficult and bureaucratic. I feel pretty good about that. But given the great effect of involuntary care and the intrusion it makes on people's freedom, it doesn't seem too much to ask. Good information provision and good access to the client-confidence person will ultimately benefit from the care that is applied involuntarily in the case of the SP. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have some loose questions about this bill. On the basis of the Wzd, the position of Wzd official can also be invested with several people within a care institution. But at that time, which of the officials deals with the general state of affairs in the field of the provision of involuntary care at the institution? Does the Minister consider that this broad responsibility, which thus goes beyond the treatment of an individual client, but which also deals with the whole policy of an institution, is in good hands with someone who is not a doctor? We have also been particularly concerned about the registration of coercive measures from the disabled sector. What should be and what should not be recorded, if, for example, regular but not standard, it is decided that the door of a resident is locked at night? Is that supposed to be reported? If so, every day? Every week? Periodically? Tell me, how many times does that have to be reported? I'd like to hear it from the Minister. Another example: in principle, a voluntary agreement is made with a client on how to deal with the mobile phone. It is agreed: in your situation it is better not to go out after eight o'clock in the evening with all kinds of unsavory types that may invite you to go out on the street and do bad things. Client and caregiver agree that's a good deal. Until it's eight o'clock in the evening and, of course, the client feels differently about it and wants to keep his phone. The phone is taken, a measure, coercive care, involuntary care, which should therefore be registered. But this can occur at regular intervals in an institution. That's not once, that can happen again the next day. In such a case, how do you deal with the registration of the involuntary care? Should such an event be reported every time or not? Mr. Chairman. Forced procedures in the ggz, we were able to read last, are too often carried out carelessly. Clients are not always properly informed about restrictions imposed. There is still too little communication on decisions on coercive treatment and on the application of measures and means. How is this going to be improved, not only in the ggz, but also in care for the elderly and the disabled? I would like a response from the Minister on this point. What about the training of orthopedagogic and ggz psychologists for the extra tasks that the minister wants to give them? According to the law, they are given tasks, but they are not yet trained enough to do so. Why didn't the Minister take this into account? Is the time available to us to introduce this law, which is still intended to be implemented on 1 January, long enough to allow sufficient people to start implementing this law? Is work experience included in the opening decision? What other requirements apply in order to become a Wzd official? Can a newly graduate orthopedagogic generalist who is still in his 20s and has little work experience just become a Wzd official? Mr. Chairman. All in all, there are quite a few loose ends to this law and the introduction of this law. In the First Chamber, the Minister has promised that the care sector will be given a year and a half after completion of the entire legislative process in order to achieve a careful implementation. What does this mean for the moment when the law finally comes into force? It seems clear to me that with this legislative process, we are standing here today and probably it will be dealt with in the First Chamber after the summer. I know that the call to do so lives very widely. A lot of people want the law in place, and I understand that, but it has to be done carefully. I'll ask the Minister how he looks at that. Actually, that's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u44	An unexpected end. Mr. Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u45	Mr Hijink has mentioned many things. I myself said that the external experts should be at the head of the process. I have not heard this point in your questions. What's your vision on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u46	I understood your question very well. You are actually saying: how can it be that they will be involved in the reduction of coercive care but not in setting up or imposing involuntary care? I could actually agree very well with that question and I'm just as curious about the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u47	It's clear, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u48	Thank you. Then we'll listen to Mr Renkema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u49	Thank you, Mr President. The sociologist Erving Goffman introduced the term "total institution" almost 60 years ago. He meant the following: a residential and workshop closed from the outside with a very formal, control-controlled regime to which a large number of people are subjected. Examples include hospitals, psychiatric institutions and nursing homes. Goffman also mentioned monasteries, barracks and prisons. In these total institutions, the residents are on the one hand and the staff on the other, while the latter are not subject to the regime. The residents do. According to Goffman, a high risk of these total institutions was that people's individuality, privacy and freedom of movement were reduced or even completely vanished. That's the way it is. A patient, a resident of a care facility, a client, has far less freedom of choice than you and I. It is always about people who have already had to turn in a lot: their physical health, their mental health and often their social network. Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about a very complicated balancing exercise. On the one hand, there is the right of self-determination, autonomy, freedom for everyone. But on the other hand, there is health, the safety of someone who needs care. Everyone who has responsibility in care for one's health and safety, but also for one's freedom and well-being, regularly carries out this balancing exercise. Those are always complicated dilemmas. Do you or do you not have to lock the door for that demented resident? Do you have to give medicines under duress to someone with intellectual disabilities who doesn't want to, but who will work much worse without those drugs? When are you going to separate someone or physically limit them? These are difficult decisions for all concerned, not only for the patient himself, who can get the feeling that he is now completely losing control of his own life, but certainly also for the environment: for family, caregivers and the professional caregivers. Mr. Chairman. The GroenLinks Group strongly supports the starting point of the Health and Force Act, which allows more room for the personal freedom of choice of the care provider. In the dilemma of freedom versus health, it is too often thought for someone else. We see the legislative amendment as an improvement, because it makes the subject of coercion an explicit part of conversations between professionals in the institutions. Hopefully, there will also be a learning culture around this complex theme. At the same time, we also see many practical questions. Implementation will require the necessary attention. Some parties are already calling for a postponement of implementation. For example, they fear administrative burden or say that the field is not yet sufficiently prepared. I think it is important for everyone that we get clarity from the Minister here today, not only about whether the law will be in force on 1 January 2020, but also about implementation. Is the Minister prepared to outline a concrete path? I have had a lot of reactions over the last few days from people from the field who are looking at that date with some concern. It is they who have to work with this change of law. Perhaps most of the reuring was also caused by the issue of the Wzd official this afternoon. Who exactly is that supposed to be? The law states that this can be a competent doctor, orthopedagogic or health psychologist, but others say that only a doctor can bear ultimate responsibility. As far as we are concerned, a careful decision must above all be taken. So we're less attached to the job. Mr. Chairman. We would like to draw attention to the new situation arising from the extra-mural application of the law. On the one hand, that is very nice, but on the other hand, it will also cause situations to emerge that are new to patients, family and carers and which they sometimes do not know about at all. In what way does the Minister intend that these fragile situations behind the front door will be made clear by, for example, the inspection? I'd like a response to that. Mr. Chairman. Here's what I'm gonna do. We are talking today about groups of very vulnerable people who have been intellectually limited, older people who have died, but let us not forget that other group of vulnerable people, namely young people in youth care. Sometimes they suffer from such a combination of disorders that they become a danger to themselves and their environment. Sometimes youth workers opt for separation. We fully understand a youth care worker who often has to take emergency measures under great stress and then sees no other option other than separation from a younger person, but we also know that such an emergency response can ultimately result in a harmful situation. Such a child can end up in a downward spiral of impotence and frustration and lose freedom there too. Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks would very much like to know if the Minister sees opportunities for the Health and Force Act to apply to closed youth care. Does the Minister consider it important to strengthen the position of young people there by means of this law? I'd like a response. Finally. With D66 GroenLinks will present an amendment for an adaptation of the Wlz, in relation to this legislative amendment. My colleague, Mr Bergkamp, will explain this amendment this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u50	Thank you. Then Mrs Hermans of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u51	Mr. Chairman. If you need care in the Netherlands, that care is almost always there. In consultation with your doctor or treatment, you make arrangements about the care you need and how you get that care, appropriate to your care question and situation. That's what you make agreements about, whether or not with the involvement of a family member. Those appointments are set out in a care plan, so that you, your family and the caregivers who are involved in your care, know what everyone is up to. Together making agreements on appropriate care is and remains the starting point, even after the entry into force of the Law care and coercion. There are situations where it is not possible to reach agreement on care with someone and/or their family member because, for example, someone with dementia or an intellectual disability cannot convey his or her will properly and clearly. If care is crucial for the safety and well-being of the client himself, but perhaps also for those of fellow residents or care workers, care can be used involuntarily. But you can't just do that. On the contrary, a roadmap needs to be carefully followed. Mr. Chairman. For the VVD Group, everything must be done at all times to reach agreement with the client and/or his or her family on the care required. Can the Minister confirm that if this fails, the client and/or the family will always be informed about the start of the roadmap to the possible use of involuntary care? Mr. Chairman. We would all prefer not to apply care under duress. We have to protect clients optimally from that. For this purpose, the Care and Force Act is primarily intended to guarantee and protect the rights of clients. At the same time, it is a law that provides guidance for healthcare providers when it comes to the decision to proceed to the possible use of involuntary care. A law can only provide a basis when it is ready for everyone's responsibility. It is precisely for this reason that the Minister came up with an amendment of the Health and Force Act, aimed at reducing administrative burdens and clarifying the role, the position of the Wzd doctor by extending it to a Wzd officer. Especially in disability care, the reason for involuntary care often lies in behavioural problems. For the VVD Group, it is therefore logical that officials with this kind of specific knowledge, the ggz psychologist and the orthopedagogic can also act as the final manager of such a step-by-step plan. As long as, and I stress this again, it is not involuntary medical care. The VVD Group believes that the proposed amendment, which is now before us, improves the Wzd, but with the last letter of amendment my group has been unclear about the proposal. This was also the subject of the various debates during Mr Hijink's speech. There seems to have been some sort of order between the Wzd officials with a medical background and the Wzd officials with what I call a behavioral expert background. Can the Minister explain exactly what he intended with this letter of amendment? I look forward to the Minister's reply, but I am also sure that I am seriously considering changing this part of the law back to the original amendment proposal by amendment. Mr. Chairman. Involuntary care or care under duress is intended as a last resort.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u52	I wonder whether Mrs Hermans is aware that investing the ultimate responsibility for involuntary care with a doctor is not only good for the client, but can also serve to protect the health care provider. I refer to the example she refers to herself by a behaviorist who overlooks a medical cause of problematic behavior. It could have very serious consequences if that were to happen. No doctor has been consulted yet, because that will not happen until it has been established, but yes, you have not established it and so it will not happen. In such a case, the caregiver is also extremely vulnerable, because he has made a mistake, a mistake that could have been avoided by involving the doctor at a much earlier stage or placing the final responsibility with the doctor because he can oversee the wide palette. Does Mrs Hermans agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u53	The reason I am asking this question to the Minister is that an adjustment proposal has been made to extend the Wzd doctor to the Wzd officer. Next comes a letter of amendment which seems to make a distinction in that again that is not entirely clear to me and which, in my view, leads to a lack of clarity when the Wzd official, the final manager in the step-by-step plan, has to have a medical background and when that could also be a behavioral background. I fully agree with you that it is extremely important, extremely crucial, that this roadmap is carried through in the right way and that the right expertise is brought in at the right time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u54	So there's the problem. If you as a behaviorist have not seen a medical cause of a behavioral problem, it can happen because it is not your expertise, and you cannot blame anyone for not seeing it, it is important that the final responsibility is invested with the doctor so that the behavioral protection is protected. That protection is broken down the moment you lay the final responsibility on the behavioral expert himself. In my view, this was one of the reasons why the VVD, Mrs Van Ark, originally advocated a firm tightening-up of this law, in addition to the client's position, to strengthen the role of the healthcare provider. How does Mrs Hermans view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u55	The VVD Group is still standing right in front of or behind strengthening the position of the healthcare provider involved in providing involuntary care. It is precisely for this reason that we believe it is important that we proceed with this law so that legal protection for the client is improved, but also that caregivers should be able to keep track of whether or not to decide on the use of involuntary care. This is without prejudice to the question of who should bear the final responsibility for going through such a roadmap. Mr Hijink has made it clear that this should always be a doctor as far as the SP is concerned. I believe that this, especially in disability care, can also be someone with a behavioral background. Hence the inclusion of the orthopedagogic eye in the Law BIG is a condition. This may well be a good way to address the concerns specific to that sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u56	I am afraid Mrs Hermans does not understand my question. I'll make it very concrete. There is a situation in which the orthopedagogic or ggz psychologist takes a measure and imposes involuntary care. In that situation, the medical reason, the medical aspect that caused this behavior, was missed. It's missed because he or she doesn't have the expertise or the knowledge to see it. That puts that caregiver 100%, completely, in the wind. Disciplinary law could be involved. That's a bad soup, also for these caregivers, because it makes them responsible for a field of expertise that they're not actually trained for. And that is precisely why we are proposing this doctor, because he or she does have that overview.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u57	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u58	Is that clear what I'm talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u59	Of the five forms of involuntary care that are distinguished by the law, I think there are three where a doctor should always be involved. I think that when I go through the road map, I ask the Minister another question about the road map, and then I always get to the point: is this a medical reason, a medical background? The involvement of a doctor in the step-by-step plan is then arranged. This is independent of the final responsibility for going through the roadmap, which could also be invested with an orthopedagogic or ggz psychologist.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u60	No, sorry, this is really not what I mean. It concerns the situation in which an orthopedagogic or psychologist has missed the medical reasons that can explain the problematic behavior. Of course, when it is estimated that medication is needed or when other cases occur where someone suspects that a doctor should be involved, that is the right time. I'm talking about that step before that. The measures are imposed, but the medical cause, the medical reasons underlying the problematic behavior, have been missed. At that very moment it is important that a doctor is ultimately responsible, because you can only take responsibility if you also have the expertise and the knowledge to judge the whole palette from behavior to the medical side. This is to prevent you from getting full-bodied as a health care provider.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u61	I now understand Mr Hijink's question better. So he's all about the pre-stage, I'll say. Will you allow me to reflect on this and respond to it in the second term? 'Cause I just need to think this through.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u62	I would also like to make a contribution to this interruption. Of course, it's not just about the Wzd officer. It's also about the caretaker. That is why we have tabled an amendment. What is the level of that caretaker is regulated by ministerial regulation. I think it is very good that the Chamber has something to say about this. But that caretaker obviously plays a very important role in that chain. It's not just about the Wzd officer or the Wzd doctor. Of course, you also have other people who have a very important role to play in providing care, including involuntary care. My question to the VVD is: does she share that it is not just about the Wzd officer and that the caretaker also plays a crucial role?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u63	Absolutely. I share that entirely with D66, with Mrs Bergkamp. That is why I also think that the multidisciplinary consultation in that roadmap, that conversation, I assume that the caretaker also has a place in it, is very important in order to come to an end: how are we going to identify in the care plan which forms of care, including which forms of involuntary care, are needed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u64	Then we have the same opinion. It's not just about the Wzd officer. It's about the interplay of different officials. The caretaker plays an important role in this. I think the Wzd official is important, but of course he's not doing the job alone. He also depends on the signals from the organization itself. But I think we're on the same page.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u65	You agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u66	The Wzd officer is the final person responsible for going through that roadmap. The Roadmap consults a large number of people and talks to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u67	Mrs Hermans said in a nutshell that the doctor should be consulted when there is a medical cause. I do not know if she will come back to it in her contribution, but I would just like to hear a few more words about why it is being reduced to make the Wzd official responsible for everything. The Minister made a divorce by stating that for a number of parts only the doctor is responsible. Isn't that clearer than plowing it back and making the behavior expert responsible for everything?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u68	This is precisely the question that Mrs Bergkamp has just asked. The Wzd Officer shall be ultimately responsible and supervise the progress of the roadmap when considering the use of involuntary care. A number of closely involved parties are involved in this whole process. My point is who's the final responsibility, who's the Wzd officer. Can it only always be a doctor or could it be someone with a behavioral background? The original adjustment proposal shall broaden that staff member. The Minister then comes up with a letter of amendment which is actually a step in the right direction. I am very curious about the considerations and the thoughts about them. I particularly think it is important that it is very clear how it is arranged and what the role and responsibility may be or might be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u69	Do I understand correctly that Mrs Hermans says that by cutting back, by removing those three elements concerning the medical cause, the proposal has actually become more unclear than it originally was before that letter of amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u70	There are five forms of involuntary care and three of them have a medical reason, a medical background. As far as I am concerned, this is still clear even after the letter of amendment. What has become more unclear after the letter of amendment is how broad that Wzd official can be understood. Has there been another ranking of a Wzd officer with a medical background and a Wzd officer with a behavioral background? Mr. Chairman. Involuntary care or care under duress is intended as a last resort, if it is excluded that even with less far-reaching measures a situation or a problem can be solved. For this reason, in the interests of the patient, the extension of involuntary care is also subject to strict rules. At this point, I have a practical question. In the event of renewal, an external expert should be consulted. The VVD welcomes that. Once that opinion has been received, this should be discussed with the Wzd Officer and in the multidisciplinary consultation and then the outcome of that consultation should be incorporated into the care plan. Can the Minister confirm that in the period between the entry of that external expert's advice and the adaptation of the care plan, the involuntary care, which had already been agreed, can continue to be provided? The Health and Force Act will also apply in the care home. Again, of course, the position of clients should be protected when it comes to this involuntary care. Can the Minister explain how the position of the Wzd official is secured when it comes to involuntary care at home? What exactly does the trajectory look like? For example, what are the role and responsibility of the general practitioner? Then there is one final point, and that is the introduction of the Health and Force Act. It has been said before today, the Wzd has a long history. It has been created to adapt to new and changing situations in healthcare and to provide a legal basis for an implementation practice that is developing, but is primarily intended to protect the position of clients. It is precisely for this reason that my group attaches great importance to the introduction of the Health and Force Act by January next year, but at the same time the VVD Group is not deaf to the many questions that still exist about the proper implementation of this law, especially when it comes to implementation in the home situation. Let me be clear: a law like this, a law that affects freedom and the right to self-determination, demands and deserves careful implementation. So we have to pay attention and time to that. Last Friday's Minister's letter says that we are going to consider 2020 as a transition year. That sounds sympathetic in itself, but what exactly does it mean? You can't put in a law halfway. You can't maintain a little bit, either. So what exactly happens in the transition year? How will we work towards full implementation in that year? What, for example, does the Inspection monitor and not monitor in that year? And can the Minister confirm that the Law on compulsory mental health care and the Forensic Care Act will simply enter into force in full on 1 January 2020? Finally, Mr President. Involuntary care or care under duress, we prefer not to apply at all. Unfortunately, sometimes it is necessary. But as a client, as a family and as a caregiver, you must be well protected. That's what the Adaptation Act we're discussing today is about. I look forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u71	Thank you. Then Mr Van der Staaij of the political group of the Reformed Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u72	Mr. Chairman. When I had the opportunity to speak on this law six years ago, I started by saying that it had taken quite a long time and that there were far-reaching notes of amendment, which meant that it had changed quite a bit. Since that time the necessary things have happened again and there has also been a growing understanding of what we are sometimes very positive about. We are, in fact, about the essence of the law. I'll get to that in a minute. At the same time, I had a rather critical contribution at the time. It was a year after elections and after so many work visits and so many conversations I thought: House of Representatives, please note that you do not come up with new rules with all kinds of charities, such as quality of care, new consultation structures and new paraphrases. Then I thought: isn't this actually another one of those laws where we're doing it again? Now, after another election round, we have the same conversations again. So I'm always motivated to say this. It is important that we have good legal protection and good safeguards. That is absolutely true, but we need to look at what that means for the workplace at the same time and whether we really need to do what we do. I wanted to give that as a background for my contribution. Let there be no misunderstanding: it is all terribly complicated and a lot has happened, but fortunately there is also one thing very clear. That is the starting point in this law: involuntary care or coercive care: no, unless. That really is a cultural change that also calls for different rules. That core message is still standing, including as far as the SGP Group is concerned. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the main content of this Care and Force Act: the introduction of the Wzd officer instead of a doctor. We think that is an improvement. We support this adjustment. It is in line with wishes expressed, in particular, by people working with people with intellectual disabilities. This is where involuntary care of a pedagogical or psychosocial nature is used more often. When it comes to involuntary medical care, a doctor remains the most appropriate care provider to act as a supervisor. An institution may also appoint several staff members. Because the Wzd official does not always have to be a doctor anymore, we reduce additional costs and administrative burdens for healthcare providers in the disabled sector. As far as we are concerned, the Minister is right to say that the use of an orthopedagogic generalist or EZ psychologist can sometimes be expected to improve the quality of care. I actually thought it was a good thing that Mr Hijink strongly opposed it and asked whether it was really necessary. That's why we're getting the discussion sharp. I listened to him very carefully. A little bit stuck with me that a doctor is something higher or something better and would therefore include stronger legal protection. I don't share that assumption. As far as I am concerned, it really is the most focused, the most appropriate care and from that perspective I think it is an improvement and a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u73	The point, of course, is that, as far as I am concerned, a doctor is in no way a better person or more valuable than a ggz psychologist or an orthopedagogic. Of course, that's not the point at all. What matters is that doctors are longer trained, more widely trained and particularly trained in identifying medical causes of problematic behaviour. In disability care, I have just had this discussion with Mrs Hermans, and it can happen that a psychologist or an orthopedagogist overlooks medical causes of problematic behavior. That's not only bad for the client, it's bad for the resident, but it's also bad for the caregiver. If that were to happen and it would lead to a disciplinary case or something else, the health care provider would have to acknowledge that he made the mistake but that he is not competent, not trained to recognize what he did not recognize.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u74	I've heard that, and I've weighed it, but it doesn't convince me. I think it is a little too far-fetched to check for that particular official in the context of this Act care and coercion in terms of final responsibility whether the journey has been properly completed and then say: yes, but you could have overlooked something medically and therefore it must be a doctor. I do not think that is a convincing argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u75	Look, it's not a doctor who basically takes the first steps, makes the first proposals or writes the plan. That is the role of the caretaker. It is a doctor who can decide at the end of the journey whether it has been done properly throughout the journey. And then it is obvious to have that extra pair of eyes look along, so that you can make a good assessment over the wide palette. You can say that the SP goes in and hangs on one side, but we shouldn't hang on the other side and pretend that this doctor, especially the doctor of mentally handicapped, doesn't know very much about behavior or how to deal with the disabled and where to behave. It is precisely those doctors who are trained to do this and who are very capable of taking on that role. We should not go the other way, namely that they could not do that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u76	Mr Hijink's position is clear. In general, I agree that we should never go to one side. Mr. Chairman. Now that the Minister is creating the position of a Wzd officer, why don't you take a look at the proper functioning and practicability of the law? It is precisely when it comes to the functioning of the Wzd Officer that we can optimise his position so that the quality of care is as high as possible and the administrative burden is as low as possible. I have resisted the temptation to put forward again from the 2013 contribution all the good ideas we had then and to think: new round, new opportunities. I understand that there is now a phase in which we have to get to work on what lies ahead. We can propose and bring along a number of changes, but it now has its limitations in this legislative process in the Second and First Chambers. I would like to raise two specific points which relate to the way in which such a Wzd official can be designed so that he or she can carry out the work properly. The first is the voluntary restriction of freedom of movement. I have tabled an amendment to that effect. My proposal is to amend the law in such a way that voluntary restrictions on freedom of movement in the case of unqualified clients are sufficient to be subject to review by the Wzd officer. This ensures that good care, care that is useful and meaningful, can simply be delivered without having to go through the whole step-by-step plan. Article 2 (2) now provides that the roadmap must also be followed. We decide on voluntary care in patients who are unwilling to do so, such as restrictions on freedom of movement. The Minister replied that the implementation of the Roadmap is also justified in this situation. In concrete terms, this includes the application of a bed fence to prevent a willless client from falling out of bed, or the use of a sheet to prevent a client from falling down in a wheelchair. If the client is willing, the bedlock can be applied without following that decision-making procedure for involuntary care. However, if it is a patient who is unwilling to act, it must be done, even if the representative agrees and the client does not oppose it. We consider application of the roadmap in such a situation, in which voluntary care is provided, to be disproportionate. We therefore propose to amend Article 2 (2) in such a way that the application of a measure restricting freedom of movement on a voluntary basis, only Article 11a of the Wzd, is subject to review of the care plan by the Wzd officer, but not the entire roadmap. That is the explanatory statement to this amendment, which has now been referred to in item No. 12 has been submitted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u77	I have a question for Mr Van der Staaij so that I can understand the amendment. Mr Van der Staaij proposes a lighter regime at the time of voluntary care. If that's true, my question would be as follows. We're talking about incompetent patients. To be honest, does this amendment not call for all kinds of discussions about what is voluntary and involuntary? That is what this discussion is about, while you now have a very careful step-by-step plan in the law. So it doesn't lead to more discussions and more carelessness? That would be my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u78	I understand the question, but I do not think that is the case, because you are actually in line with an existing system. It needs to be followed and it needs to be known: how do you deal with care, such as that bed fence or wheelchair blade, in case a client is willing and says he thinks it is a good idea? Because then you don't have to follow a whole procedure. My proposal is: if the representative, who is actually replacing that unqualified client, says 'of course, totally agree', then follow exactly the same procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u79	If you have a bedstick, you might get over it quickly, although there may also be some discussion about it. But I can imagine... Let me give you an example of calming medications. The client might be able to make it clear: well, fine. The family also thinks: well, this is quite a crisis situation, so why not? And so something that is involuntary is actually made voluntary. You don't have to go through that roadmap. How does Mr Van der Staaij view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u80	I understand the reasoning, but that would also apply to situations where someone can simply say: but I agree with this concern. Well, then that's not compulsion. And when it comes to more radical or far-reaching restrictions on freedom of movement or whatever, the system of the law also includes the heavier regime of the roadmap. Mr. Chairman. That was the explanation of my amendment. The second point concerns district nurses. The Minister states that he wants to make tailor-made work possible with this law and to give the healthcare provider the opportunity to make a responsible choice. That is a good starting point; we share that. The Minister wants all forms of involuntary care to be provided. Neighborhood care has an important role to play here. We have therefore asked in the report whether district nurses can be designated as Wzd officials. The answer was: it can't be, because nurses aren't academically trained. But my question is: is that requirement of academic training in this context really necessary? The neighborhood nurse, and I'm talking about HBO-educated district nurses, is ideally qualified to assess a care plan that includes involuntary care. He or she is BIG registered and subject to public disciplinary law. We could therefore very well imagine that the law would allow us to designate a district nurse as a Wzd official. And don't you limit the performance of that involuntary care? I have considered tabling an amendment on this point, but on the other hand I have thought: it is too far to include it in this legal process, from the point of view I have just mentioned. But my question would now be: would you still look at this point, also in practice, and would you like to examine whether there are real possibilities for that in practice? That is the question I wanted to ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u81	I am still thinking about Mr Van der Staaij's amendment. I still have a question about that. The Care and Force Act is intended for legal protection of clients, but it should also provide a clear basis for caregivers who have to deal with involuntary care. Is Mr Van der Staaij not afraid that this amendment will actually introduce a new system, a second system, into the law, which will once again create uncertainty and lead to a great deal of discussion as to whether we are going to choose one system or the other?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u82	I understand the point. I don't think so, because I'm not introducing a new system. Then it would be more important. In fact, I agree with an existing system: to give Article 11a, paragraph 1 and paragraph 2 in accordance with its application. The point is that you quite simply equate the "yes" of the legal representative in the situation of the unwilling client with the situation in which the client himself says "yes." And the question is whether what needs to be done should be part of a care plan or whether a whole step-by-step plan should be implemented, you follow the regime of the law. Mr. Chairman. Finally, on the letter of amendment. The letter of amendment proposes that a Wzd official can only decide to adapt a care plan after the consent of a doctor not involved in the care. These are care plans which include the most common forms of unwilling care and all care plans of unwilling clients in which these forms of care are included on a voluntary basis. In short and well, the letter of amendment proposes an adjustment to accommodate critical notions by Members of Parliament, among others, I read. But it also raises new questions, as has just been shown. What would actually go wrong if Mrs Hermans' suggestion were followed and reversed? What would go wrong, or what would be unclear?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u83	I think the amendment sounds nice, but I've been digging and searching a little bit. Is it true that you put the amendment to the vote earlier and that it was agreed at that time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u84	Not this amendment. When you are working on such a law, there is talk of moving insight towards all sides. Then it was more radically designed than it is now. This is a milder variant to actually meet the concerns that exist. So it's not exactly the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u85	Then perhaps you could indicate exactly what it is different?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u86	The point is that the condition is now also explicitly laid down... I'm just gonna get my explanatory notes. The point is that, in particular, the role of the care plan comes out more clearly than in the original amendment. Mr. Chairman. Those were my first-term comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u87	You're deradicalized!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u88	Yeah, you could say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u89	I'll establish it. Then Mrs Bergkamp from the D66 group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are discussing today the amendment of the Health and Force Act. I think that the order in which this is two words says everything about this successor to the Law special inclusions in psychiatric hospitals, because it is primarily about care and then about involuntary care, or coercion. The core of the Wzd is no, unless. Care for the elderly with dementia and people with disabilities should take place as much as possible on a voluntary basis, unless there is really no other way. That is the starting point of the Wzd. My group was therefore in favour of the successor to the BOPZ Act. She also voted for it. Which, I think, fits much better with this time of year. I thought that Mr Hijink gave a nice picture of history, when it comes to youth care and where we are now. I have already heard in previous contributions that this law is also important in order to bring about a cultural change. As I said, we are discussing today not the Wzd but the Adaptation Act. In essence, it is about the extension to the Wzd official and the fact that it does not have to be just the doctor. It could also be the orthopedagogic generalist and the gz psychologist. This is not an easy law to oversee, all the more so because various interest groups are opposed to each other. Extend the position in line with the amendment, say the disabled and the elderly sectors. Or simply limit the proposal, so that the doctor is always ultimately responsible, the doctors say. The same is true of the introduction of the Wzd. Get a transition year, run it as fast as you can, postpone it. So that's tricky. Let me put it this way to the Minister: the co-creation process referred to by the Minister in his letter of 7 June has not yet really led to a joint development and implementation process. In preparing this law, therefore, the central question was: is this law ready to be dealt with? I would also like to thank VGN in particular. We've had a lot of contact over the last few days, even with Pentecost. The answer to the question I asked myself earlier is: yes, I think the law is ready to deal with. First of all because the Upper House has of course already made a very important contribution, already in 2017. The First Chamber has also received a letter in which the Adaptation Act has already been announced. A slightly unusual process, but we don't start from scratch. In addition, we also think it is important that the field and everyone involved with this form of care and compulsion also gets clarity. And finally, today we are also discussing an important change to the Wvggz. Mr. Chairman. The Wzd official plays an unprecedentedly important role in the context of the Wzd. He, or she, independently supervises the use of involuntary care and its possible phasing-out. The staff member is also responsible for the way in which care is provided involuntarily and can also have the care plan adjusted in that context. Quality of care and legal protection of the client must be at the heart of this. The question is: who is best equipped for this in practice? Experience in the disability sector indicates that this can often be a behavioral expert, the orthopedagogic generalist and the health psychologist. We therefore understand this change when it comes to the disability sector. This sector is also a separate sector, and we can therefore agree with the arguments for enlargement. People with intellectual disabilities are by definition not ill either. This sector focuses on improving quality and participating in society. In the end, I noticed that, just as in the interrupting debates, there was a combination of experts. That's what it's about, wherever you are in the care. In the end, the crux is the interplay of experts. An orthopedagogic generalist or gz psychologist cannot take over the duties of the doctor in the medical field and vice versa. Mr. Chairman. Looking at everything, my group still has a number of questions. The intention of the Minister is only to monitor whether involuntary care is necessary and effective. The supervising WSD officer is not going to repeat the decisions of the doctors. There is therefore a difference between the treating doctor and the Wzd official. That is crucial for us. Please confirm. And is the law also flexible enough so that, depending on the client, whether it's a sick client or a healthy client, you can exchange in it who is the Wzd official, so that you can also have multiple Wzd officials as an institution, or a Wzd officer and a Wzd doctor? I would like a clarification on this point. Can the Minister also explain why he did not choose the SP also came with it for a form of mandating? Of course, that might have been possible. Why wasn't that chosen? Mr. Chairman. The caretaker is further developed in the ministerial regime. It seems to us to be a good thing that it should also be given a veil, because the caretaker I gave to the debate on the interruption of Mrs Hermans' speech plays an important role in this and also needs the right expertise to identify, for example, the cause of behaviour and to put appropriate measures in place. For example, when it comes to the ggz, we see that the caretaker must comply with Article 3 of the BIG Act. So it's got to be a BIG registered. How does the Minister view this? Then there is the letter of amendment. That has already been said enough. It's like nobody's happy about that change. The law has not necessarily become clearer on it either. I think it is important for the Minister to explain the background to this change. What did he intend and did he succeed? There are different interpretations about that. What about, for example, the role and responsibility of the staff member in the roadmap to arrive at a care plan that includes involuntary care? What is the role of externals? There are several interpretations about this, so I think it would be useful for the Minister to explain this. Then we have a number of questions about the vg sector. How do you prevent the healthcare provider from making the wrong choice because of the shortage of doctors when it comes to the Wzd doctor or officer, namely not on the basis of care content or what a client needs? Are there sufficient orthopedagogic, generalists and EZ psychologists on the labour market? Do these specialists comply with the request? The opening decision will enter into force on 1 January 2020. Then I have a number of questions about the pg sector and nursing homes, concerning psychogeriatric complaints and dementia care. To be honest, I do not see enough of the justification and the attention that this gets in the note. I therefore ask the Minister why this extension also applies to the nursing home sector. When are you in a nursing home dealing with an orthopedagogic eye, a generalist or a gz psychologist? The Wzd is also introduced in an out-of-arm manner. There are still real doubts about that. It's unexplored territory. Hence a number of questions about this. Is this method already clear for the community care and clustered housing? What should you do in pgb situations, where the parent has responsibility? There are a lot of questions about that. How's the involuntary care going later? When it comes to a home situation, how does the interplay between the Wzd officer, the district nurse, client and family take place? How's it going now and how's it going later? Then there's the client confidant. I am glad that the government has made another change to the law in response to our questions. It is important for clients and representatives to know that they are entitled to advice and assistance from client confidants. It can sometimes be difficult to enter directly into a conversation with the person you are dissatisfied with, for example a counselor. The client confidant can then advise or support someone in a conversation. We are pleased that the healthcare provider is obliged to inform the client and his representative about the client's ability to trust. As far as we're concerned, that's strengthening the position of the client and his family. Then about the entry into force of the law. Again, there are several sounds about how to do it. I also have doubts about the situation at home and about nursing homes. How do we deal with that? This is, of course, further fed by a letter of fire, which in itself is shared collectively, of ActiZ, V&VN, LHV and NVAG: not the least organisations if we look at the assignment that this law gives or that results from it. What are we supposed to do then heard all these worries? Because there's still a lot to do. The Adaptation Act has yet to pass through both Chambers. Ministerial arrangements have yet to be drawn up. The rules on registration still need to be implemented. It is necessary to clarify, for example, the non-congenital brain injury, huntington and korsakov. The concept of accommodation has yet to be developed. So much remains to be done, and then these are actually only legal steps that still have to be taken. I would like a reflection of the Minister on the deadline for the introduction of the Wzd, that is to say the general law. Furthermore, the Minister states that he is considering a transitional period. That could possibly be a solution. That's what I'm asking the Minister. It must then be very clear what this transitional year means and what the role of the inspection is. Does the inspection actually agree to that? That is why I would also ask the Minister to clarify this very quickly. If there is such a transitional period, which may well be a solution, what does that mean? Then I also think of all those professionals, who of course also need to know what happens in that year. Then I would like to stress once again the outlying, small-scale housing initiatives and nursing homes, where it is simply even more unexplored land. I would like a commitment on this point. I think I'm getting my word. That's very nice. Mr. Chairman. The government has also chosen not to allow child and youth psychologists to be admitted to the Law on Occupations in Individual Healthcare, also known as the Law BIG. We can follow that reasoning, but it would be nice to hear a little bit of what that trajectory looks like when it comes to that Wet BIG. Which function groups are admitted now and why not others? In the context of this bill, I understand the Minister's argument. Mr President, I am almost at my last point. I come to my final words, but first I want to make a point. If a client with a psychogeriatric disorder or intellectual disability has to receive Wlz care but the client is unable to make an informed decision on this matter, two decisions are required. A Wlz indication should be requested, in which it becomes clear that the client is entitled to the Long-Term Care Act. The second decision concerns admission and residence. Now there is a problem, because family members can make a request to the CIZ about admission and residence, but not an application when it comes to using that Wlz. That is strange in itself, because in practice it seems to have been the subject of working arrangements. In other words, the practice does not comply with the law now. That is why I tabled an amendment on this subject together with Mr Renkema van GroenLinks. Otherwise you will get a very complicated journey. Then you should apply for a mentor. That needs to be arranged through the canton court. It is precisely in view of the situation of this law and also in view of the fact that it is already being applied in practice that we have tabled an amendment to give legal support to practice. That is why we have tabled this amendment. Mr President, concluding. I think that this bill has struck a good balance between care and rules. That is quite difficult, as I have just said, given the different opinions on it. We still have a number of questions and we look forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u91	Thank you. Mrs. Hermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u92	I have a question for Mrs Bergkamp about the amendment she has just explained. Indeed, I recognize the problem that lies under this amendment. I do have a question about it. The amendment aims to lay down existing practice in the law, in particular in order to provide legal protection and guidance. Those terms have been dropped many times today. Do we really know whether the practice currently applied by the CIZ is also the practice that we should be laying down in the law? Do you have an idea of this, or is it perhaps better to evaluate it again and to look closely at whether we are really solving the problem we are encountering in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u93	I thank Mrs Hermans for her question. I have asked written questions about this with Mrs Ellemeet before. In fact, the Minister's reply expressed that this is the current practice. So agreements have been made in order to do so. It has also been indicated that we do have a problem here. It therefore seems important to me that clarity is provided and that we should make a situation that is not legally possible now simply legal. I think that is simply a good solution in this situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u94	A supplementary remark. This plays wider than just the law we're dealing with today. It also plays in Wlz care in general. That's what you write in the explanatory statement. That is why I wonder whether the practice we are about to adopt will solve the whole problem. Do we have enough on the table or should we have a closer look at it first? We are, of course, taking a step in the legislative process.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u95	I do not think so, also because it is a delimited amendment. So this amendment is not about Wlz care in the broad sense. It's really focused on the situations of care and coercion. That is why I also believe that it is appropriate in this debate and that it is appropriate for the Minister to answer our previously asked questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u96	Carefulness is the key word when I listen to Mrs Bergkamp's contribution. We also had a question about care with regard to the external experts. Does Mrs Bergkamp not agree with me that it is precisely those external experts, if you have them, who are at the head of the process and who are not using them until later, when there is an end to involuntary care? What is Mrs Bergkamp's view on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u97	I've listened to the CDA's input very carefully. The Minister's proposal was sufficient for me. The moment you're going to change things in terms of terms, there's a fresh look from the outside. The CDA wants that more at the beginning. I am very curious to hear the Minister's response. I think it's been some kind of balancing to make this adaptation law, and I can't see what it means right now if you change anything in that process.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u98	Then we'll both listen to that, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u100	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Agema of the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In just over six months, the new Law on Care and Force will come into force. We have been clear: we are mordicus against compulsion at home. Lock the door to prevent someone from wandering the streets. Mount a shelf on the seat to avoid falling forwards. Put restful medication in the coffee. In kitchen cupboards go looking for sharp objects and remove them. Hang up webcams. It can now all be done only with the explicit consent of the resident. And not anymore. Gives me a knot in the stomach. The funding of 80,000 nursing homes was stopped in 2013 and 2014, supposedly because our elderly people wanted to do so themselves. By now everyone knows better and there is forced search for something between home and nursing home. Now living starting dementias, but also people with advanced dementias at home, often with a partner who is already old, but also very often alone. About 15,000 people are waiting for a place in a nursing home. See if you can organize that compulsion at home. See that "no, unless" to organize. When it comes time for coercive care, it becomes time for admission to an institution with 24-hour supervision and care in the vicinity. I'll stick with that. There's still plenty of work to be done on this law. Several trade associations have asked for a postponement. In his letter of 7 June, we read that the Minister 2020 is a transitional year. But what does that mean in concrete terms? Will the inspection be maintained by 1 January 2020 or not? Does the inspection actually have enough human strength? How is the inspection going to shape it when it comes to compulsion at home? Today, I will confine myself to the present legislative amendment of the title Wzd-doctor, which will be replaced by the Wzd-officer, Amendment A. This function is no longer exclusively for doctors, but also for ggz psychologists and the orthopedagogic generalist. They will monitor the implementation of involuntary care or freedom-limiting measures. But this proposal is oddly related to the almost unanimously adopted Leijten amendment from only 2017. That amendment called for, and I quote: 'The function of Wzd-doctor can be performed by a specialist in elderly medicine, a doctor mentally restricted or another expert doctor'. I see an amendment, which is almost universally accepted, which refers to 'doctor, doctor, doctor', an amendment which was only adopted a year and a half ago. And now, because of practical objections, we see an extension to others than doctors. Don't get me wrong: the education of EZ psychologists is postgraduate and postmaster, and orthopedagogy is. But what kind of law do we get? Weirder still is change B. I quote: 'The proposed third paragraph states that, in so far as a Wzd official is not a doctor, he shall only provide instructions for the adaptation of the care plan after consultation with and agreement of a doctor not involved in the care, if such instructions concern the administration of moisture, nutrition and medication, medical checks, other medical procedures or other therapeutic measures, the restriction of freedom of movement or containment, even if such care is included in the care plan if there is no resistance'. It's really not clear. It's weird. I am very curious about the Minister's story, because everything I have read on paper surprises me. Are we going to get an A list for the orthopedagogic generalist and the health psychologist and a B list for the doctor? The GPS tracker, is that gonna be a "B"? Taking a cell phone, is that gonna be an A's? Web site shielding, is that an A'tje? Forced day program, is that an "A"? An imposed diet, because someone's too fat, isn't that B again? The bike locked, is that also a B-list? The psychopharmaceutical, that sounds like the B list to me. Locking the door to prevent someone from wandering the streets seems like a B's too. Mounting a shelf on the chair against the robberies also seems to me to be a B. Medication in the coffee. I was talking about that, the psychopharmaceutical is a B. In the kitchen cupboards go looking for sharp objects and remove them: an A'tje? Hang up webcams? Mr. Chairman. I think this is total chaos. If this is really the way we get it, then I think we should be able to discuss this effect here in the Chamber. I think that part B, as we have been given in the amendment, is too brief, and I think it creates too much uncertainty. I would like a comprehensive response from the Minister on how he intends to resolve this. Or perhaps he has a completely different view of the dilemma I have just outlined. Finally, the third and final point I would like to raise is the Minister's sunny prediction of administrative burden relief. Why does the Minister think that this will be a hosanna if, according to the Wzd, any part of coercive care that one wishes to add will require consultation, a roadmap will be followed? Will the doctors who check these coercive measures in that, again, repulsive home situation do so at home? Are they gonna make it clear what's gonna happen? How do you do that with advanced dementias? Mr. Chairman. I have a lot of questions about these two legislative changes. They're not clear to me, and I'm very curious about the Minister's story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u102	That's what we're gonna listen to at 5:00 sharp. I'll suspend to the 5:00 clock.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u103	The Minister has the floor. I hope not to make it a night's work today, but that is in the hands of all of you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u104	Thank you, Mr President, for this encouragement in advance. But the Chamber has asked a bunch of questions. I get that, too, because it's about a serious law that's been going on for a long time. Mr Van der Staaij has the longest memory of it, which he has also shared with us. He thought it would take a long time a few years ago, and now we are here again, about an adaptation of especially the Law care and coercion. For me, this has a background in my first legal treatment in the Upper Chamber, where the Upper Chamber actually did what you hope and expect her to do, namely to keep the feasibility of the laws she gets from your hand critically against the light. That's what the First Chamber did. We have had a very thorough debate on this. In that the First Chamber convinced me that there were two things that had to be changed. I have included these two points in an adaptation law. I informed you of this in December 2017, in a copy of a letter I sent to the Upper House in preparation for the treatment there. On that occasion, I also informed you of a change which I thought would be better suited to implementation practice. I would, of course, like to explain this later. That will be the first block of my answer. I know you always record that, Mr. Chairman. I also think that this will be the most substantial block, because a serious number of questions have been asked on this point. The second block of the reply is about a letter I sent you about the first year of implementation, which I would like to see as a transitional year. That is de facto independent of the change in law, the adaptation law as it is here, because, as I have just outlined, that adaptation law is only an adaptation law based on the two points I have experienced in the treatment in the First Chamber as impregnating points with which I had to do something. Nevertheless, I understand very well that you are asking the questions on this point. So that's block two. Block number three concerns the varia. Any discussion in any debate, there should be a block of variety, traditions must be kept in honour. Block four concerns the amendments that have become me at the moment. In your speech you have announced more, but at least I am doing the amendments that have become me at the moment. I'm sure I'll provide him with a reaction. That's actually how I want to do the answer. The Health and Force Act has a long history, but also a history in which you see very well that the development of care as it has taken place in recent years has always been reflected in the changes to that law. The BOPZ is no longer the most appropriate law, especially when it comes to disability care or nursing care. The cultural change that is considered necessary in the sector also has to do with the emancipation of the client in disability care and with new views on what is good care. The starting point of 'no, unless', which has been underlined and embraced by all of you once again, has led to codification, the codification of what you might call 'good care'. The most important introduction that the Law brings care and compulsion is the question: what do we find good care when it comes to care where forced measures come into play? You'll start with no, unless. If it is necessary for good care to apply forced measures, the basic line of the Law is care and coercion that you have to think about it carefully and that you have to involve your colleagues. That's actually the shortest summary of the Health and Force Act. So far, I think, we all agree. What happened when you were treated in the First Chamber? This has been the reason for the Law on Adaptation. First of all, the amendment which was added to the debate in the House of Representatives with the Leijten amendment, namely the introduction of the Wzd doctor, was raised. It has been said that this is a good idea, but is it also well thought out what its implementation means, particularly for the disabled? I would like to emphasise this, because I also hear a number of speakers who have expressed it in such a way that, with the introduction of the amending law, I will undo the Leijten amendment. That is by no means the case. What has the Leijten amendment done? Previously, in the original law of the Health and Force Act, the roadmap was introduced, the caretaker was simply final responsibility for everything that happened in that roadmap and there was no official within the institution who was ultimately responsible for forced action. The Leijten amendment, in fact congruent to the mandatory ggz Act, introduced a finalist at academic level into the Health and Force Act under the heading of Wzd-doctor. That's an improvement of the law. That was also experienced by everyone at the time as an improvement of the law. Hence the House-wide support. Hence the support of disabled organisations, for example, because this is indeed an improvement in legal protection. Then there is the adjustment I am making on the basis of the debate. This was particularly about its feasibility, not so much about the need to introduce a Wzd doctor as a figure, but about its feasibility by allowing it to be a doctor alone. That's more of a feasibility discussion. This did not call into question the principle of introducing a similar figure as in the Ggz who is ultimately responsible for measures that respect forced care. That's how I see it and I think we should see it that way. There is very often no medical relationship in disability care, as Mrs Bergkamp said. A medical problem is not at the forefront at all. Often there is a more behavioral care that needs to be implemented in a freedom-limiting measure, for example. Then it's about the behavioral side. That orthopedagogic generalist or the gz psychologist is the one who's already working there. Someone with a behavioral background is the one who already works there, who already has a final responsibility for the care, who is already the one with whom you have your back on: shall I take this measure, will I try it, will you look with me in this case, I don't really know what to do here, can you help me? Actually, it's already the question mark in such an institution. That's why the First Chamber said, "Why don't you broaden who could play the position of Wzd doctor/officer, why don't you broaden it?" I think that's a logical question. The VGN, including the disabled sector, has also made this demand very clear. And why? Executableness, that is the question: feasibility and better match an institution's practice, better match the practice of organising disability care. I wanted to meet that. Under the Adaptation Act, we got into the discussion: yes, but it will not be the case that the orthopedagogic generalist or the EZ psychologist can therefore also overrule medical decisions? As a Wzd official, he bears the final responsibility for that care plan. For example, a number of pills are prescribed in the healthcare plan. And as an orthopedagogic, you say, "Well, those pills don't have to be mine." Isn't it a strange figure that if you're a non-medician, you're overruling medical decisions from the care plan? That was the question from the Chamber. Then came Mrs Hermans' question, quite a confrontational question, of course: what was the reason for that letter of amendment to your own adaptation law; what was the reason for that? Mr Van der Staaij's question was what would actually go wrong if you did not apply that letter of amendment to this point. Honesty commands me to say not so much. First of all, in response to your question, I have to say that it is not possible for a non-medician to make a medical decision: no, it cannot be, and it is not going to be, because the step-by-step plan clearly indicates where to involve a physician. I guess that's not the right thing to do with those other things. It's pretty clear to everyone whose chair you're sitting on. By the way, we always have the Law BIG, as the VGN writes to your Chamber in preparation for this treatment. The Wet BIG prescribes: stay on your own property; stay on your own expertise. In fact, it is even disciplinaryly enforceable that you stay on your own field of expertise. In short, is something really wrong? No. What was the background to that letter of amendment? Here's what I was thinking. There's a discussion about it. Apparently, there could be some discussion about it. Apparently, you can read it differently than we intended, so let's clarify that. Let us explicitly add to the law that the orthopedagogic generalist or the EZ psychologist cannot overrule a decision taken by a physician on a medical matter. Then there was a new discussion about this. Mr Slootweg referred to this: do you think one professional is more important in that respect or of a higher order than the other? Of course it isn't. Each operates on its own field of expertise. That's the background to that. The point is that Mrs Hermans suggested that an amendment be considered to reverse that part of the letter of amendment, because it has led to more discussion rather than less, and it was also quite clear at first in that adaptation law. I can imagine that now, having seen the discussion that has led to that. So there was no more to it than to respond to the concerns I read in the note on the report. I wanted to clarify what was discussed in your Chamber. This clarification has not necessarily proved to be a clarification. I therefore think it is a good idea to reverse this attempt at clarification so that it stays clear, namely: there is no hierarchy difference; everyone simply has to move in their own area of expertise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u105	It is quite remarkable that the Minister is now actually taking another step back. In fact, he says that the Wzd official can be a gz psychologist or an orthopedagogic generalist and that this makes it clearer, but that is of course not the case, because it remains unclear when a doctor should be involved in the whole process. That's just what it turned out to be in that discussion. Is that freedom-limiting measures? No, that is the list that is about imposing restrictions on the freedom to create one's own life. If we do this, the conclusion is that we are going to create a huge grey area. When are we going to involve a doctor in involuntary care? I would like to draw the Minister's attention to the following. Just make sure you work together. Make sure that a doctor can lean on the specialty of the behaviorist, but draw one line for the whole sector, so that you don't get the discussion every time: who needs to be consulted or not? I honestly don't understand what's wrong with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u106	The first answer would be: look carefully at the reason for the Adaptation Act. The reason for the adaptation law is the daily implementation practice in particular in disability care. There are not the doctors the question mark within the institution, whether those who co-operate on the content of care plans or are ultimately responsible for the care. That's where behaviorists carry that responsibility. A person with a disability, even if it is a serious restriction, does not initially have a medical problem. Behavioral problems are much more common. They will therefore also give rise to the desire to take forced measures to ensure that care is adequate, appropriate and personalised. So it's more like non-medical decisions. Nevertheless, in order to meet your concern, it has been specified that this will continue to be the case, even if the letter of amendment would be reversed, even if it were to be used in the conduct of medical operations, but also in restricting the freedom of movement and the inclusion of the client, in the type of actions that qualify and could be classified as such, that medical practitioner is involved. Why? That's to rule out that a medical cause would be the background to the need to make a similar decision. That's why. When will it be involved? Well, just as part of the roadmap, namely at all times that such a decision falls there. That's when the medic gets involved. Mrs Hermans' question was when, at what times, it will be involved. Well, just on the steps in the roadmap. That's Article 10, third paragraph of the Wzd. It clearly states that where medical procedures are concerned, the restriction of the freedom of movement or the inclusion of the client, a doctor must be involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u107	Yes, but my question is simply: what is left of measures that no doctor needs to be involved in? In Article 2, I try to see what that is. This includes, for example, measures to monitor the client. I think that's a complicated one. I've been watching the night shift in disability care. Then you end up in some kind of confusion room where clients are listening, where there's camera surveillance, where mats are used to see if people are still in bed. That is also very soon on the medical side, the health of people: the chance of falling, the chance of epileptic seizures. It hits the medical side very quickly. Another article deals with the imposition of restrictions on freedom to create one's own life, which results in the client having to do or fail to do something. I think that's the example of the cell phone I used. But, yes, is the bicycle being chained up, a measure imposed on someone to do or leave something, in this case: do not go cycling? Or is that a measure that restricts the client's freedom? In that case, that measure would fall into the category which is under the supervision of the doctor. How will the sector draw a line in the future if a large grey area is created where it is not clear which measures fall into which category?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u108	That is exactly what is currently being worked out with the sector. The interesting thing is that the sector actually has less difficulty in creating that unity in language than is apparently the case when we have the political debate on it. For I do not think that the example of the telephone can be qualified as a medical act, not even as a restriction of freedom of movement or as an example of the inclusion of the client. It doesn't seem very complicated to classify this. So that unity of language is created. This type of example situation is also classified in the sense of: what are we talking about? That's exactly what's happening right now. The second is that, I think, we should just let common sense do its job. You can't make a law, not even a ministerial arrangement, in which you define exactly how professionals have to act for all the actual situations in which people end up. I'm saying, thank goodness. Please let us also rely a little on common sense. On the one hand, you want to legally determine that the legal protection of clients must be assured, that the basic rule of forced care is actually: think about it carefully, and involve your colleagues. As far as "think carefully" is concerned, as soon as you take measures that require a doctor to watch, in order to rule out the need for a medical background to be able to take such a measure at all, you can also consult a doctor when going through the regular steps. The following examples have therefore been mentioned: medical procedures, restrictions on freedom of movement and the inclusion of the client. That is what I consider to be self-evidently clear categories. Can there be any doubt? Yeah, of course you can. Is it impossible to act in those situations of doubt? No, I'm not. If you're in doubt, just don't catch up and make a call; then you know it. In practice, I think it is very good to deal with it. We have a lot of discussion about this implementation practice, with all kinds of organisations, but it just happens to be quite soluble.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u109	The Minister calls it "common sense." In my view, the strength and charm of the original plan, as stated in the Leijten amendment, is precisely that it is very clear and unambiguous what the order of things is. There is then a team that consults, there are specialists, in this case often behaviorists, who give advice, present ideas and make proposals, and at the end of the journey there is also a doctor who is watching to see if one might have overlooked a medical cause of the behavior. In many cases, that probably wouldn't have happened. Then there's nothing to worry about and one can just follow the advice. But in those cases where it has been overlooked, we can avoid very serious problems. I honestly don't understand why such a very simple order is made so incredibly complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u110	Then perhaps with your own examples, because I actually thought that were very good examples. This measure is about saying to young people with disabilities: "I think you shouldn't sit around after eight and make appointments with friends, because it's up to no good. That's not gonna help you. It's gonna get you on the wrong track, and we need to stop that. So we're gonna make good friends for you and we're gonna make sure you hang out with good friends in the evening." That seems to me to be a measure that you can say: what does a doctor do with it? That has no medical background; it has nothing to do with that. It just has a behavioral background. If you want to make an appointment in a living group like "after 8:00 p.m. your phone goes to me and then we're gonna do nice things until you go to bed," that's a typical appointment where a doctor has no added value at all. So you help the implementation practice very much if you codify the reality of that housing group as well, if you give that space to the person who has the final responsibility for this type of measures. I do not think they should be taken lightly, because you might think from a distance that it is a small measure, but for such a client it certainly feels like a proper restriction of his freedom. If I did that at home, that would also be seen as a considerable restriction of freedom, so I understand it. But that's just a measure that a medic doesn't have much to add to it. I therefore believe that this is a good example of the need for the adjustment that we have made. Because why would you keep a doctor from his job?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u111	On this point, the Minister is right. I'm not saying that a doctor will know better than a behaviorist in all cases. In this case, I think it's pretty clear too. Of course, it is precisely in those cases where there may be doubts about the medical causes, the medical grounds, of problematic behavior, that one avoids miscalculation. This is true, for example, when an older client has onset of Alzheimer's, dementia, or when a disease process may be in progress in the background. A behavioral expert simply can't establish that because he doesn't have the medical expertise. That's not a reproach, because he's an expert in another field.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u112	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u113	It is precisely for this reason that you want to involve a doctor in time, in order to rule out the wrong decision being made. That is what you are doing, and I would refer you to the debate that will take place in the near future in order to prevent the behaviorists from getting in the wind and getting disciplined, because they have had to make a judgment on matters that they have not been trained to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u114	That's right. It is precisely for this reason that Article 10, third paragraph of the law makes it quite clear that you allow a medical practitioner to look into medical procedures, but also at restricting the freedom of movement and the inclusion of the client, so this may be the issue, where a medical background may be the cause of the need for forced action. Indeed, you only do that to rule out the fact that a medical background is the cause.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u115	Yeah, but you just found out if there's one...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u116	No, no, no, no, no. I've heard you four times now. We're gonna listen to Mrs. Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u117	I am pleased that the Minister is explaining the letter of amendment. I also think it's good that we're going to fix that. I am therefore looking forward to the amendment announced by Mrs Hermans. But I still have a question about that. The letter of amendment states: "The proposed third paragraph states that, in so far as a WZD official is not a doctor, he shall only provide guidance to adapt the health care plan after consultation with and agreement of a doctor not involved in the care." It says, "Adjustment of the care plan." I wonder what the Minister's interpretation is. I can imagine that is an agreement we have made or at least it is in the law that an external expert should always be consulted in the event of an extension. It cannot be that, if we now restore it to the original situation, the role of the external is out of play.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u118	That's right. I understand that it is not at all easy to reproduce on the basis of the legislative text how it was discussed. There is a first consultation, the first stage in which a forced measure is envisaged. If voluntary care alone is not enough and there really is a need to take a forced action, then the first stage is expert consultation. We do that with the caretaker and the expert of another discipline, but that could be someone within the institution. When it comes to medical connotations, there is also a doctor. That's the first meeting. Of course, this falls under the responsibility of the Wzd official. He'll check it out, and he'll assess the care plan. In the second stage, there are the caretaker and that expert of another discipline, the same as in the first stage, and that doctor again only if there is a medical connotation on the basis of the act, plus the expert not involved in the care, everything again under the responsibility of the Wzd officer, that is in the extension of the care plan after three months. That goes on for up to six months. From that month on, that was Mrs Hermans' question, it is true that you need to evaluate the measure in such a way that you look at where the measure can be phased out. That is the time to get a few extra fresh eyes in, because at that moment an external expert might be able to take a different look at the matter. You are always in the same club, albeit that you involve the employee not involved in the healthcare case in the second moment, in the first evaluation of the care plan, so the second moment of discussion. But the outsider adds a few extra fresh eyes. So we would not lose anything if we accepted Mrs Hermans' amendment. We are not losing anything because, in my view, the amendment corrects my attempt at clarification, which proved not to be an attempt at clarification, at least was a failed attempt. That is the only thing the amendment seeks to correct. The composition of the various consultations remains as it stood.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u119	That's clear. I'm trying to get into the Minister's skin a little bit to see how he meant this. I have already said that Mrs Hermans' amendment seems perfectly logical to me. What did he mean at the time by adjusting the care plan? I would like to understand very well what that sentence is about. Should the care plan be changed because involuntary care has been agreed or was it agreed that it is right to extend it? I'm trying to understand that phrase.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u120	Now I understand the question better. The reason was that your Chamber said: it will not be the case that the behavioral expert is going to overrule a medical decision, for example on medication. In the first instance, I have responded that it will indeed not be. Then you replied again with the question of what guarantees there are for that. That certainty is in the BIG anyway. That is also what I believe the VGN rightly underlines. I wanted to emphasise that it cannot be the intention that, where medication is part of the care plan, for example, and where discussion of the care plan leads to adaptation of it, the behavioral expert would say: do a little less pills, then we will take another measure to reduce the freedom of movement a little and then we will exchange one against the other. In the case of less medication, an adaptation of the health plan which also has a medical background, the same physician must be involved again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u121	The Minister quickly indicated that he wanted a number of changes. I have not yet seen Mrs Hermans' amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u122	Me neither.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u123	I do not understand why the choice is made. Is it not possible for the Minister himself to say: I heard the story, I withdraw it? Why the amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u124	That's engineering. I just want to stress a few things. First of all, it concerns the adaptation of the Adaptation Act. This is an adjustment that I have made on the basis of the discussion which had in particular a feasibility approach in the First Chamber. This discussion has led to two adjustments. We are now discussing the first amendment. That adjustment is not so much a downward conclusion to the Leijten amendment, which Mr Hijink was afraid of. On the contrary, I would like to say. The Leijten amendment is fully in line. But for those who could play that role, I deliberately opted for a broadening, because I believe that it meets the implementation practice in disability care. Then, during the note on the occasion of the report with your Chamber, I came into dispute. It was asked whether the behaviorist would be seated in the chair of the physician. I said, no, he's not gonna do that. At first I tried to argue that very well, but the second note on the report showed me that you were not immediately passionate about that argument. Then I figured I'd just have to clarify it by writing down that it's not the intention that the behavioral expert should overrule the physician. But then I got a discussion with you now but earlier in the field, witnessing the letters that you have also received, that I would create some sort of hierarchy in those who could perform the Wzd official role: if you are a medic, you are obviously at the top of the pyramid and if you are not a medic, not. That's a bit like Mr Renkema sketched it out. What Mr Renkema said about it is true. It is about the care with which the content of the decision comes about and not so much about whether you are a medical practitioner or not. It's about making the decisions in your own field of expertise. That is important, but that applies vice versa. With the letter of amendment, I made an attempt to clarify what I meant. If this leads to an unclear situation, then I would be happy to go along with Mrs Hermans' proposal. In fact, she has already done so, but she has said that she is very willing to do so per amendment. I am therefore prepared to reverse that attempt at clarification, which was not a very successful attempt at clarification.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u125	I understand that; we will wait for the amendment. Then I come to the external expert's point. Part of the change was that the external expert was given a different place. I understand that the Minister does not go so far as to turn it all back and put that external expert back at the beginning of the trial. That's right, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u126	No. The external expert has a different background. That also has a performance background, but maybe it's good to move on to the second part of this block. That is the second part of the adaptation proposed in the Adaptation Act. The second part mainly has an implementation background, but also a background in administrative burdens. You quoted my explanation of that. You said it wasn't the most brilliant argument. I kind of get that. Nor was it the only argument that should serve as a basis for this adjustment. Initially, the figure of the Wzd official did not exist at all. It didn't get in until you dealt with the law here and amended that figure in it. In short: that has already led to an extra pair of eyes at that very first step. That wasn't there at first. Originally the caretaker was the end boss and there was no one who looked over the shoulder of the caretaker. Therefore, that external expert was indeed a good idea in the original law. In the First Chamber, we discussed the law, including your amendment to introduce the Wzd officer. Then the First Chamber, rightly so, asked me if it wasn't a little double-up. After all, we already have the Wzd official as a strange pair of eyes watching in a case. When it comes to a medical procedure or something related to it, we also have the physician watching. Then we already have six eyes. Do we really need an external expert to be flown in for a bed fence in all cases? That's gonna be a hell of a mess. Are we really helping people with that? A number of measures are likely to be reversed after three months. You don't need that outside expert for that at all. So you really don't always need that external expert when it comes to the quality of the decision that it concerns. We are talking about feasibility, but also about administrative burdens and whether there are enough external experts and whether they should all be hired. For the large institutions this is probably easier than for the small institutions, but on the other hand it is a large number of decisions for which a lot of external experts have to be hired. Is that really all necessary or will we only do it if you get into the scaling up stage that a fresh pair of eyes is needed? Then we said: let us choose the latter. Let us remove the external experts in the first step and let us allow them to play a role only in the evaluation, after six months. This means much less hiring external experts and thus a much better enforceable law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u127	I understand that part and that still appeals to me. But with a smaller care facility, the number of eyes indicated by the minister can be reduced; a Wzd doctor can perform all those functions a bit. How is it secured that you get the other pair of eyes? I do not think that happens automatically. The Minister outlines a situation of a large team in which it is, but we have it very nice that our society allows it... also some smaller care institutions. It may be that there is only a doctor who fulfils all these functions. How is it ensured that there is still a look from the outside?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u128	Actually, in a number of ways. At that first consultation, in which a measure is taken, you always have the caretaker. That's one. You have the expert of another discipline. That's two. And you've got the Wzd officer who'll take care of that. That's three. So that's always six eyes. If there's a doctor involved, it's eight eyes. Always. You'll have that deposit anyway. When you come to the second phase, after three months, that consultation extends with an expert not involved in the care. Another pair of eyes added, at least a few eyes, so two eyes. When it comes to the evaluation after six months, the external expert comes in. Until then, it's okay with internal professionals. But a small care institution will not have them all internally available and will thus rather switch to someone who works outside the institution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u129	I'm going back to the letter of amendment. It is now clear to me that it was intended to be clarified by the Minister, but that he himself now sees that this may have led to confusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u130	Thank you for rubbing that in there, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u131	In my term, I already announced that I would table an amendment; so will I. I will do so quickly so that colleagues can look at it quickly. I understand Mr Hijink's questions about medical measures of involuntary care. For your confirmation, you say that Article 10 (3) stipulates that, at the time of involuntary medical care, a doctor must always be involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u132	Yes, involuntary medical care indeed, so when it comes to medical treatment, containment or restriction of freedom of movement. There can be no discussion about medical procedures in the first place. However, in the case of containment or restriction of freedom of movement, there could be a medical basis for the behaviour for which a behaviorist would like to take a behavioral measure, but for which it is good to rule out that it does not have a medical cause.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u133	At this point. How can a behavioral pain or a novice illness be determined before taking behavioural measures in the context of involuntary care? How can he determine it without a medical background?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u134	That's not the point of contact either. The point of reference in the law is that when it comes to medical treatment, containment or a restriction of freedom of movement, behavioral expressions could be at the root of it which actually have a medical root cause. In these cases, the physician should always be involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u135	That's not the question. That's after. The behavioral expert sees that the person is already ill or already has certain medications. So there's evidence of medical problems. It's about protecting the client. He's in pain, he might not be able to express it, and he's got problematic behavior that's hard to explain. There's coercive care, but it turns out there's a medical cause afterwards. That is possible, only the risk that we run with this amendment of the law is that we are not going to find it, because that doctor is not being involved at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u136	No, I don't think so. I don't think so. That is precisely what Article 10 (3) of the Wzd offers the solution. Because the examples you are describing are indeed examples where you might see on the outside behavior for which you would like to take behavioral measures, but where actually the root cause of that behavior is a medical one. You're saying that this behaviorist can't see that at all, isn't that his expertise at all? But in what kind of cases does that occur? Where it is about medical procedures, it is obvious. But when it comes to containment or restriction of freedom of movement, so when you take a measure that sees it, it is explicitly in the law that you always involve that doctor in such a case. That's in the step-by-step plan: involve the doctor at every step at that time. Then I come back to the telephone example; when it comes to that, of course, that is not true. That has nothing to do with freedom of movement or with containment or anything else; it has to do with the freedom to organise your life the way you prefer it. Moreover, it is not a small measure; I do not want to trivialise it because in the experience of clients it may well be a firm measure, but at least it is not something where a doctor necessarily has added value. So exactly where your care is, which is where it's about actions where you really need to have a medical background to see if you don't first rule out a medical cause......................................................................................................................................... Isn't that, by definition, a decision where you want to have a doctor? It is precisely in these cases that the doctor is involved, especially in those cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u137	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u138	Finally, Mr President. Then I would like to say that I do not know whether this is possible, and I would like to hear some indication from the Minister. Because he makes the problem so small that it seems as if in almost all cases a doctor will still be involved. Then I am curious: if you look purely in percentages, in what number of cases is a doctor expected to be involved and in what number of cases can an orthopedagogic or a psychologist itself make that judgment? I understand that it is a difficult question, but every time I ask a question about the root causes of problematic behavior, I have to be reassured with an answer that it will all be okay, while I fear it is the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u139	I'm not saying it's gonna be all right. You are concerned, but I would just like to point out that, in the implementation practice, are no behavioral measures now being taken where there is actually a medical basis? And how can you actually see that, as a behavioral expert, and don't you have to be a medic to rule out a medical root cause? I agree, and the law provides for that. So in those cases where the measure you take is actually a behavioral measure, which could be in the field of a medical practitioner, you should also involve that doctor. In all the other cases where it isn't, it isn't. To what extent one and the other happens, I find really complicated to estimate. I am, of course, very willing to include that in the evaluation. I'm also willing to ask that question on the field, but I think that's a little difficult for everyone to estimate. Why? Because of the fact that some of those measures are, of course, simply being implemented in the other context of the law at the moment, without being seen or felt or experienced that there is a forced measure at issue. With that, I think I've had my first block. You have asked the same questions in many wordings, but I think I really touched them all. Then I'm going to my next block, which was about the transition period. We have worked very intensively with the sector on the implementation of the law. It actually started in December 2017, when the law was passed in the Upper House. In 2017, the body of the law was actually known. I already announced the elements of the Adaptation Act that we are discussing here today in December 2017. In this Chamber, I said that I think that a year and a half is really the introduction period that the field needs. Luckily, we managed to stick to that. The law was clear and the Decision was clear about care and coercion. That decision was consulted a year and a half ago. At least one and a half years before the 2020 date, namely 5 June. No, I'm saying it wrong. That indeed went into consultation a year and a half ago. It was recently adopted on 5 June. Anyway, actually it's been known in its form for a year and a half. The field determines the additional information it needs and the hand-outs to be made. Every six weeks there has been an implementation meeting with all domes and with VWS. Pilots have been launched in which healthcare providers are already gaining experience with the roadmap. Good healthcare providers just see this as a hand-out for good care, as a codification of good care. VWS is entering the region. Within Dignity and pride of location, this is an additional support module under the Care and Force Act. But despite the fact that there has been an incredible amount of work on this implementation, I also see concern. I see the concern that a number of things are not ready in time and the concern that it is not yet fully clear to professionals and that the inspection can lead to rather firm consequences for action in violation of the law. This concerns an important part of the home situation, but in part it also looks at the implementation as a whole. Last week I had an intrusive consultation with all the field parties who wrote solid letters about it. I have said in their direction what I am now going to say in your direction. I see, I read, the plea for postponement. But let's work on you for a second, which means delay. That actually means that you say: we've been working on that law for nine years now and we're about to bring it into force, but let the legal protection that the Law provides for care and coercion wait for just a little while longer. We are also saying that the BOPZ should only apply for a short time to the disabled sector and the compulsory ggz Act, as opposed to all those other sectors. That is not easy in the execution either. We are therefore saying that we are now allowing the situation of the home situation to continue. Let's just say to each other what that situation is today. It is not legally permissible for forced action to be taken in the home situation. That's just not allowed. But the reality is that it does happen, sometimes unconsciously and always with the best intentions; I believe in that. But it does happen, without a legal basis. If you choose to postpone the law because the home situation is not prepared for it, then it is a conscious choice to allow the situation of lack of legal protection to continue for a while. I think we should have a close eye for the concerns about implementation. These are real concerns. Are we done with a recording system in time? Is it true that we still have to ask the NZa again if this has any funding implications? We asked for this and the NZa saw no reason to recalculate the tariffs. But why shouldn't we ask that question again? Should we invest extra in training? Are the training courses even ready? The main question is how the inspection deals with its supervision. How is the inspection actually going to shape its supervision? I can imagine all these questions very well. That's why I said I'm not going deaf and blind for what the field says. I am not going to persecute this law in the sense of: all of you will and must fully comply with all the provisions of the law by 1 January. Because I think that the field is not for nothing that cares on our plate. Those concerns are real. I really want to answer those concerns. At the same time, I think we have the client organisations and the patient organisations to take seriously. Because their concern is: Oh, dear, then you're not going to choose to postpone, because that means that we're gonna be okay with the lack of legal protection we know now, for another year? Moreover: is postponement a reason to expect that we are not having the same conversation next year? Shouldn't we just start practicing? We have to do this in such a way that we offer the professionals some safety. The inspection is not ready on January 1st with her coupon book. By the way, the inspection never does that anyway, because that is not at all the attitude of the inspection. But that's not the way we're supposed to do it here. We need to ask the inspection to deal with it in a learning way. That is what we are talking about right now. We should ask the inspection to choose the monitoring in the transition year so that it is stimulating and learning, and acting where it is not yet okay. I expect that attitude from the inspection for the first year of Wzd. At the same time, I understand that Mrs Bergkamp in particular said that Mr Slootweg and Mrs Hermans said that it was also in favour of avoiding any ambiguity about the year of transition and to work out very precisely what that year of transition looks like. That is exactly what I agreed with the parties I spoke to in detail last week. The clarity of what the field has to do and what we, as legislator, expect from the field, must be properly shaped. I would like to propose that you give me the opportunity to take stock of the following very precisely with the field. At what point is an arrangement to be made in the transition year? At what point is an additional agreement to allow the transition year to be a year of learning and development? How do we make a precise roadmap for that? I would like to ask your Chamber to give me a week or two or three to work that out with the field and undertake to forward it to your Chamber so that we can discuss it with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u140	Two questions about the transition year. Thank you for the commitment to return to this in the near future. Just to confirm: that's what we get before the summer recess?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u141	I would like to give you the opportunity to have another debate on this, if there is such a need; I could just imagine that. I won't take another minute, but I do think I'll need a week or two, three, because the worries in the field are pretty big. I didn't take those concerns away with just one little conversation; I want to do that thoroughly. I would also like to give you the opportunity to discuss this with me before the summer recess. I want the field to have clarity for the summer. If it's okay with you, I'll take the month of June for that, if I'm gonna do it soon. I will see to it that you have the letter before 1 July, so that you can have the discussion with me on this during the first week of July, the last week of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u142	Thank you. Then there's my second question. You rightly pointed out that the introduction by 2020 is important to create a legal basis, especially in the home situation. You have just promised a letter on the implementation of the transitional year. Could you perhaps also indicate what this legal basis means in the home situation? We know that there are still a lot of questions about the transition year and about applying the Law on care and compulsion in the home situation, and that there is uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u143	I'd be happy to, because that's what most questions are about. I have just explained that I understand the concern about whether we can apply this in the home situation. Why? Because within an institution people are already used to working according to the system of the BOPZ and not in the home situation. The fact is that there is currently no legal basis in the home situation for forced action, but it does, with the best intention. They are not always seen for what they are, namely forced measures, but it happens; it happens. Legal protection is currently not sufficiently regulated. Some institutions say that we are not ready at all; we are not able to organise expert consultations or we do not yet have a Wzd official at all. I would say to those institutions: do not do so. Because you don't have to do it. It is not mandatory to take forced action at home. You have to do it if it's justified and can be justified. That way, with that sobriety, I'd like to deal with it. But I'd like to respond to your invitation to work that out more precisely in the letter you're getting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u144	I think it's a fine commitment from the Minister. I was also concerned about the transition year, but I think the Minister is going to make a practical impact, and we can also agree with that. I'm glad. But my concerns about the situation at home, nursing homes and small residential initiatives have not yet been fully addressed. My colleague Mr Hermans just asked a question about this. Of course, everyone must be clear about what is going to happen in the transition year. Then it's about the clients themselves, but also about the family and the care professionals. Can the Minister, at the time he informs the Chamber before the summer recess, really pay sufficient attention to this? My second question is: can we also be clear about what the inspection thinks of such a year?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u145	Answer one is: yes, of course. I also see that most of the concerns at V&VN, for example, are about home care. I get that, too, because that's where it's the most new. It is also not the only basis for choosing a transition year, because there are more loose ends in the implementation than just that care at home. But home care does worry most. I can see that right now. So we will also have to give a very precise answer to that. Answer two is: yes, I think one of the most important agreements we have to deal with is precisely about supervision. It is then about the question of what to expect from the inspection in such a transitional year. I say as a starting point that the inspection should be learning, stimulating and acting. That is the creed that the inspection will have to handle in that first year. But the question is what exactly does that mean for what you may or may not expect for registrations and care plans, for example. In what cycle and at what speed should old care plans be converted into new ones? How does the inspection weigh that type of thing in that first year? I think that we all need to clarify this, because otherwise it will lead to unrest. This unrest isn't helping.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u146	I do not quite see how things are going to be in practice. I do share the Minister's view that it is now a lawless regime, which you do not want. But I'm curious to see how this is going to go together in the home situation with such a Wzd officer or doctor, the district nurse, the family and the clients. Perhaps the elder doctor will also be watching a bit because the step to a nursing home will have to be taken later. How's that going? The Minister does not have to give a comprehensive answer to this immediately, but I find it very difficult to imagine it now. I also get back from the interest groups that it is really unexplored territory. I don't want to be experimented with just these vulnerable people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u147	The first answer is: the point is that measures are actually being taken at the moment without a legal regime. That happens with the best intentions and with the best intentions. I'm not doing anything about that. In fact, these measures may indeed be better care than not taking those measures. The point is that there are no legal bases and no legal safeguards for them either. That's one way. The second side is that the Law naturally assumes care and coercion from the no-unless principle, but also from: no more profound than strictly necessary. If you were not allowed to take a number of measures in the home situation, that could be the follow-up step towards making institutional care necessary. Then a placement in a nursing home becomes necessary. Now imagine someone just wants to stay home, but get more forgetful and also forget to turn off the gas. That's just gonna be dangerous at some point. You'll have a conversation with Mr. Jansen: if that doesn't work out, if that gets dangerous, then you really need to go to a nursing home. But Mr. Jansen doesn't want that at all, because he just wants to stay home. Then a less radical measure is really turning off the gas. At the same time, you must also realise that you are actually taking a measure against the will and against the will of this patient. I deliberately mention this example because it is just a practical house-garden-and-kitchen example, which does occur regularly. You should not want, therefore, to have a much more radically forced measure, that is to say the placement in a nursing home. In short, the Law of care and coercion of course provides a framework for action, but also actually provides guidance on what the starting point should be: "no, unless" and "the less profound, the better it is." That framework of action is more the spirit of the Care and Force Act... should also be the starting point at home. It is a shame to wait a year longer than is strictly necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u148	My question is not about the home situation, but rather about the institutions, both the geriatric institutions and disability care. The point is in line with Mrs Bergkamp when it comes to monitoring and enforcement. I hear the Minister now saying all kinds of things about inspection, such as raising, learning, stimulating. That seems fine to me, but at the same time it is an agency which must maintain a number of aspects, including incidents. My question is actually: is the Minister prepared to say that in the letter he has just announced there is not only an overall passage on how the inspection will complete that year, but that this letter is so clear to institutions, nursing homes and also to the disabled, that they know where we stand? For example, the Minister can promise here that there will be no sanctions or that there will be no sanctions in the first six months... That is how specific I would very much like to speak for the institutions. If there is a new legal framework as of January 1st, it is very difficult if you are not sure how the supervisor is doing in this, even when it comes to certain incidents.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u149	I understand that very well. The more precise I can give that clarity, the better it is. That goes for you, but that goes for the field as well, because of course you have to prepare for that implementation. In general terms, I think we can reach an agreement quite quickly: you do not want the inspection to go unnecessarily into all kinds of far-reaching measures where you are not at all equally ready in all respects. You want to try to act as closely as possible from the spirit of the law, perhaps not always to the letter. That's what you want to stimulate. If it is really about the conditions for safe and good care that are compromised, then you want that inspection to be enforced, even at the beginning. You have to want to give precision in that. I will. In the letter I have just given to Mrs Bergkamp, I will give the answer to this question as precisely as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u150	I've been standing in line for a while and there's actually always points. First of all, I welcome the fact that the House of Representatives and the Minister are finally waking up that the implementation of coercive care at home is very problematic. The Minister's answer was: if home care institutions do not like it, they should not do it. But that is, of course, a practice that has been passed by a station for a very long time. The nursing homes were closed in 2013 and 2014. Beginning dementia is no longer a reason for recording. Advanced dementia is no longer a reason for recording. The gentleman with dementia who just lost his wife, who forgot that, who goes wandering the streets at night... It's a little easy to say: if the home care organisation doesn't want to do that, then she doesn't. The minister says: if the gentleman does not want to go to a nursing home or a nursing home, locking the front door is an easier or better solution than a place in an institution. You can't do that! I call on the Minister to recognise that there is a great moral decline here. If it's time for coercive care, it's also time for a safe place in an institution that's not here right now. The Minister has to promise to do everything he can to create these places, not only those nursing homes, but also those nursing homes that have been lost. He has to say he's gonna fix this and he's not gonna let people wander the streets or shut down the gas. You can't do that!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u151	I have just explained that this possibility of the Care and Force Act to, when it comes to good personal care, also come home to measures that are not always in line with the will of the patient or the client, is an improvement in the legal position vis-à-vis the present. Why? Because we know that measures are being taken with the best intention in our home, too, which we must say: they are measures against the will of people. You yourself mention the example of the door locked to prevent error. More examples are conceivable. The example of shutting down the gas, when someone is not really waiting for it, is also such an example. These are practical house-garden-and-kitchen examples. On the need for 24-hour surveillance, just the access criterion to the Wlz, I very much agree with Mrs Agema. Then there is indeed the possibility of indicating a nursing home and admitting it to a nursing home. This law doesn't matter or do anything about it. Recording in a nursing home is always possible when people meet the eligibility criteria of the Wlz. There is also the possibility of people who do meet the eligibility criteria of the Wlz, but who absolutely do not want to. There's a lot of them. However, it may sometimes be necessary, because it is the only way to ensure the safety of people. What I just explained in the direction of Mrs Bergkamp is that I think it is of added value that the Health and Force Act can also be applied at home, because it replaces the current situation where forced measures at home cannot legally happen, but without the legal certainty that the Law provides for care and coercion. That's one. Two. Also in those situations where someone would be admissible or would be indicative for the Wlz, but not will, this is often a less drastic decision than forced entry into a nursing home. If you can keep the care safe, without a forced admission into a nursing home being necessary, it is therefore a framework of action. But I also say: do not use that framework of action if you think you are not ready. If a home care organisation finds that it cannot take that measure in accordance with the safeguards laid down in the Health and Force Act, it is indeed better not to take that measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u152	I'm sure this is a story that has been thought about for a very long time, but it's a very bad story. It is true that the gas is being shut off, that the door is being closed at eight o'clock in the evening and that more of these restrictions of freedom are being applied at home. And soon we will have a law that will only facilitate that! But the wrong thing about this story is that until 2013 we still had the nursing home in the Netherlands and that the funding of 80,000 places has stopped. That's why these people are at home in bad circumstances. You can't really say that the door should be locked at night because a demented older gentleman goes out on the street because he forgot his wife died. How can you say it's always less bad that the door is closed at home than in the nursing home? There are now almost 15,000 people on the waiting list for a place in the nursing home! Those places aren't there! The nursing home places are gone, too, and then you come up with a law like that. You should have put that law first in the garbage and said: compulsion at home is not going to happen under my care. You should have said: it just doesn't happen in this country that people get the door shut at home at night; they get a safe loving place in a 24-hour institution. If it's time for coercive measures, it's time for the nursing home.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u153	But what Mrs Agema is proposing is a more radical restriction of freedom than the Law on care and coercion. In any case, you are confusing all the debates we have had on care for the elderly in recent years. But if I concentrate on the Care and Force Act, I dare say that it makes it possible to take less drastic measures if those less drastic measures meet personalised care and what personalised care is at the time. I think that's of great added value. There are many people who choose to live at home and who have the right to choose to stay at home. You cannot agree with that, but I believe that people have the right to make that choice. That can be done until it becomes really irresponsible and you have to say: people cannot judge for themselves whether they can do so safely or not. If people themselves are no longer able to make that assessment, then the question is what action will be taken to respond to that situation. The measure, which then responds to that situation, must be, in line with the spirit of the Care and Force Act, the least profound. And the least profound can be that you do actually take something of a forced measure at home in order to avoid a more drastic forced measure, for example inclusion in a nursing home if people do not want it. I'm deliberately saying "can," because you're really gonna have to judge that to measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u154	Recording in a nursing home is often just a godsend when the time comes. It used to be at the nursing home. Once people were there, they loved it. They said, "Oh, I'm coming back to life, I'm being taken care of, there's nice people here, I can just walk out the door and then there's others." The nursing home and the nursing home are generally very nice institutions once people are there. But the minister said I was getting things mixed up. That's not right. We had properly regulated the system of care for the elderly in our country; vulnerable, but well regulated. On average, 82 and a half. Home care, care, home care, home care, then came the nursing home, the nursing home, the palliative-terminal care: the seven steps of care for the elderly. Vulnerable but well arranged. The previous cabinet ripped out that nursing home. As a result, the situation has arisen that about 100,000 elderly people who are starting to dement and who don't really know it anymore are simply obliged to be at home; not because they want it so badly. Ask an older man where he wants to live. He wants to live at home. But does he want to if he's gonna lose it, if he doesn't remember the road, if he's gonna leave the gas on? Then he doesn't want it. Then he craves another place, a better place. That's the problem. And then there's gonna be a law of care and coercion that regulates compulsion at home. It is the most repulsive bill ever produced here in the House of Representatives. I hope that all these home care institutions will say: we are not going to do this. Then this minister must very quickly build new institutions and ensure that all those older people are given a safe place in a 24-hour institution. I'm asking him to do that very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u155	I know this argument, of course, because it is a very consistent argument, and we have discussed it much more often in this way; not so much in relation to the Health and Force Act but in relation to all changes in care for the elderly in recent years. I have also discussed with Mrs Agema a long time ago that since the 1980s the number of places in nursing and nursing homes has been halved and the number of people over 80 has doubled. Those are the facts, and they do not really have much to do with the system changes introduced under the previous cabinet. I have also said many times that I agree that there has been a gap between home and nursing home, a gap that needs to be filled with new forms of living and care. In doing so, the clustered living and the clustered provision of care and support, although at home, in a self-contained home but still in a clustered setting, that type of new forms of living and care, must be organized. We discussed this in connection with the SP own-initiative paper on the health neighbourhoods. We talked about it in the context of Langer Home. Many incentive schemes have been developed to stimulate this type of provision. They are also being built in full at the moment. It's all the same. This is without prejudice to the fact that measures are now being taken against the will of people in the home situation. That is not a reproach or anything; it is simply the observation that this is happening. If that's the case, you'd like to lay down a legal basis. At the same time, of course, I am not going to force home-care institutions to take forced action at home if they themselves say that they are not really ready to do so. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So take it easy, step by step. Hence the year of transition. This also applies to home care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u156	Still, about the year of transition. I think it's very wise indeed to take the field to see where you can go. But of course we are already a long way off with this law; that is what the Minister indicated about in the first sentence of his reply. I would like to avoid the sudden impression that we are going to introduce an empty law by 1 January 2020. Therefore, in its implementation, it seems logical to me that, so to speak, there will be a slightly more rigorous assessment in November 2020 than in February 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u157	That makes sense to me, too. At the same time, I want to have an eye and an ear for the concerns that have been put on the board from the industry organisations, but also from the professionals. As Mrs Bergkamp described it, it is also a field in which there are all kinds of tensions, in which all the time when you have made one happy, you have made the other unhappy. I'd like to operate on that. By the way, it's my job, and by the way yours, to make people dosed unhappy. That's what you're doing all the time. You're trying to distribute it as honestly as you can. So, on the one hand, that law has to go into effect. We are not going to delay this, because then we are not doing justice to the nine years that you have been sitting on it and certainly not right to the one and a half or two years that the field has been on it in the implementation of the law. Some of them are really far away. Client and patient organisations have rightly been waiting for this law for a very long time. On the other hand, people have to be able to enforce the law. The nurses must be able to carry her out, as well as the specialists in the care of the elderly and the general practitioners. We also have to take that into account. "Keeping accounts" will thus become the motto, but take everyone's interest into account. That's where a nice middle comes from. That's where I always like a year of transition that does justice to the principles and to the spirit of the law and to the letter of the law will not always have to be as minute as from 1 January. But to an increasing extent, as the year passes, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u158	I just wanted to get this straight, because it was really just about the transition and what it should be. But it is a bit clearer to me now: they simply enter and look with the field where customization is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u159	Yes. And the commitment to Hermans and Bergkamp, and also to Renkema, is to send the Chamber as precise a letter as possible within a few weeks on what the transitional year is about. That will happen at such a time that it is still possible to tie it together in the last week before the summer recess here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u160	I was just thinking about the interruption debate between Mrs Agema and the Minister. We are now going to lay a legal basis, even when it comes to care and compulsion in the home situation. If people want to stay home longer, there may come a time when they can't. To be honest, I think it is also a signal if you have to apply a great deal of compulsion in the home situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u161	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u162	You don't want that. That is why my question to the Minister. The CIZ gives indications for the Long-Term Care Act, the district nurse checks if things are still going at home. But we now have a chance to see how that goes next year, because we're going to learn with it and get experience with it. I assume that we will also keep track of how often care and compulsion occurs in the home situation, so that we get an impression of that. In the end, it's a bit complicated when considering whether someone can stay at home, whether or not someone gets a Wlz indication, see what happens in the home situation when it comes to care and coercion. My request to the Minister, based on the interruption debate with Mrs Agema but in other words, is therefore to see what we can learn next year. Can this also be taken towards CIZ and Wlz indication, to prevent people from staying at home in such a situation for too long? After all, we know more because there is a legal basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u163	Of course. That's how you'll see the registration. I do think that it is really a question of development, especially with regard to care in the home situation. After all, that registration is not perfect after a month or two. Not at all. I hope that registration will improve in the course of the year. I also assume that the number of institutions will increase that it will dare to take that measure under the Wzd also in the home situation. I assume that the spirit of the law, namely 'no, unless' and not more radical than necessary, is also a matter of countries. That will really take a few months. Nevertheless, I agree with you; on the basis of these registrations you will see what type of measures are actually being taken in the home situation. That will be an important part of the evaluation, I think. By the way, of course, it is already the case that when you do a CIZ-indication, or Wlz-indication by the CIZ, the justification of that indication also includes the home situation. That's the question what if. "If we don't give that indication, what does that mean for the home situation? Is 24 hours of surveillance even possible in the home situation? And that is necessary, because look: this is not going well, that is not going well, the client is going astray. So it is necessary and it can all be designed in an institution." Of course, that is often the basis for such a Wlz indication.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u164	Can the Minister also see to what extent this issue, to what extent there is concern and compulsion at home and whether it is necessary, becomes part of how the CIZ looks at indications? I don't think it's an explicit part of that right now. We will now have a legal basis from 1 January. It would be interesting to see if the CIZ can take that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u165	Honestly, I'm assuming the CIZ is looking at that right now. The CIZ uses the indicative protocol. The indicative protocol asks a number of questions about how the home situation works and why care is needed in an institution. Then it is mainly about: is it no longer justified at home, is it necessary 24-hour surveillance? From that, you could derive the extent to which forced care is needed. I would like to check it again, but I would think that it is already being taken into account at the moment in the indication.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u166	Thank you, but now there will be a legal basis. The Minister is going to inform the Chamber before the summer. Does he want to see to what extent the CIZ can explicitly take this issue? Is this question asked: is care and coercion applied? In fact, the Minister has already promised that at least in the registration we will get that information in order to learn from what will eventually happen next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u167	Yes. In the registration you will simply see it, because the registration becomes a legal obligation. It has no legal basis and therefore there is no legal obligation to register: it does happen but we do not know. That's gonna be a legal obligation and a registration obligation, so you're gonna see it. So you can also include it in the evaluation. You are actually saying: look at how the CIZ is currently setting up its indication; should it not include the need for forced care at home, including in assessing the extent to which 24-hour surveillance is apparently necessary in an institution? I get that. I just wanted to come back to it because I didn't quite... I know a lot of things by heart, but I don't quite know the indicative protocol by heart. I would be happy to return to that in writing, if that is all right with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u168	Can we get to the block of varia yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u169	Yeah, you're ready, I see. And I was just getting there, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u170	Yeah, it's that moment of the day.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u171	Look, it's 6:30, Wednesday night, the block of varia. The client confidant. The CDA asked: Can the introduction and development of the client confidence person in the vg and pg sector be learned from the patient confidence person in the ggz? Oh, yeah. This has already been done in the development of the quality framework of client confidence in the vg and pg sectors. Stichting PatientConfidence Person (Stichting PatientConfidence Person) has also been asked to participate actively, although the clientconfidence Person under the Wzd is a slightly different figure than in the ggz. Because there it is a nationwide foundation and here it is more regionally defined, because there are several providers who can provide that type of customer confidence work. Can the Minister promote the active involvement of the client confidant in the care of vg and pg patients? I'm definitely committed to that. This function and the right of clients on the basis of advice and assistance are addressed in all the manuals currently being written about the Wzd. I also see an important role for the care offices, because they purchase the trust work as well as the Wlz care. They can therefore talk to the healthcare providers they have contracted about the way in which the client's confidence person is involved. Why not the same line for the client confidant as for the patient confidant, Mr. Hijink asks. Because the whole time the design of the Wzd looked at: what does the implementation practice look like and could we do something that also fits in with that execution practice? In the design of the trust work in the vg and pg sectors, the main focus is on the characteristics and needs of the target group. That makes the design different. The client confidant knows the regional and social context of the client; hence the regional embedding. This is without prejudice to the fact that the legal protection of the client's confidence is identical to that of the patient's confidence in the ggz.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u172	I doubt that, given that the mentally handicapped and those in care for the elderly are going to have a very different information position. They do not receive in writing what measures have been taken for what reasons. This is, of course, important, also in order to be able to determine in retrospect whether there has been any proper action. I said: there are all kinds of disadvantages in terms of bureaucracy, and I understand that. However, I'm attached to it because you don't want that legal status to be weakened.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u173	I'm browsing my stack, because I know I'll be there, but maybe I forgot it in another pile. The answer is that working with that roadmap implies involving the representatives and the client in the steps you take. That was also Mrs Hermans' question. That's just a prescription. That's what you've got to do. A written confirmation of this does not add much to this target group, except bureaucracy. That's why I wouldn't be in favour of changing that. This is really different from the target group of the compulsory ggz Act. The core is whether clients, patients are involved in the measures being taken and their background. And my answer is: yes, of course, that is prescribed. The roadmap implies that exactly. It implies the multidisciplinary nature of a measure, but it also implies the involvement of not only the client himself, but also of his representatives, his relatives, in coming to that decision and in explaining the background to that decision. If you are going to oblige the disabled sector to make a written notification or whatever, then that really ignores the implementation practice. I really don't think that's gonna add value to the clients.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u174	I am thinking in particular of situations where certain forms of coercion have not yet been included in the healthcare plan, but where they have had to take place for acute reasons. At those moments, I think it is very important that the client be fully informed about his rights. There are opportunities to appeal, opportunities to engage the client confidant. Then the Minister's answer is not satisfactory. In those situations, it is quite logical that you align the rights with those in the ggz.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u175	In that situation, it is an urgent matter. In that case, it is advisable to convene this consultation as soon as possible, to convene the MDO and to adapt the health plan. Then the client and the representative must be involved. I remember it again: it was Amendment No 2 which was adopted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 10. It was actually in a folder, but it wasn't until another folder, so I'm gonna join you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u176	I have a question following the Minister's response to Mr Hijink's question. Somewhere between the rules the minister said: this is a different situation than in the law mandatory ggz. Could he perhaps explain a little bit more about what exactly is different about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u177	A client who is multiplely limited or has a serious intellectual disability, or a patient who is severely demented, is already unable to read a letter. Then a letter doesn't add anything. That does not alter the fact that you take a client in a particular situation as well as possible in the measures you take, that you explain them well and explain the background to them well. But a written confirmation in a letter doesn't add anything to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u178	I understand that part. I argued that the legal protection of the clients and patients in those different laws is different. Then I get a bit of the argument back that we have regulated one nationwide and the other regionally. If you want to learn from each other, it's the question of how to put that more together. My question was also a little bit: how can you stimulate that a little more? Then I get the answer: at health offices, it always stays regional. I do not think we should allow too much light to emerge between legal protection in these different laws. How does the Minister view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u179	When it comes to the legal protection offered by a client confidant, I fully agree with you. In this respect, the Law on care and coercion is also not different from the Law on compulsory ggz. These two differ, in particular, in terms of who buys it and whether it is organised centrally or regionally. The answer is: the healthcare office buys in. Why was that chosen? Because that is more in line with multiple organisations that can offer this type of client confidant. That is already the case. Is there an absolute need to form a single national organisation for this? The answer is no. However, in terms of legal protection, namely access to a client confidant and the need to point that out, the Law on compulsory ggz does not differ from the Law on care and coercion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u180	The latter is simply not entirely true, because in the Health and Force Act a form of informing the client must take place which is understandable to the client. Only, the minister was just getting rid of it by saying: there are, of course, many situations where the client is not at all able to read a letter. That is why our amendment also states: see if you can inform the client's representative or family in that case. It is a bit silly of the Minister to take that off in this way, because also in the ggz it can of course be said that the client himself is not able to read anything anymore and that the family or the representative is thus informed in the same way. In my view, therefore, the argument that has just been used is not a pure argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u181	Even if you could not make that argument, the argument still stands: what is it really about? In my opinion, it's about involving a client, involving his family in measures that involve involuntary care, nevertheless, with good care, and that conversation is being conducted together between the team responsible for the treatment and the neighbors. That's what you want to accommodate. What you're adding to that is, please put that in writing. The healthcare plan is, of course, transparent every day of the year, and access to it also exists. That's where you made it clear. It's in the care plan. If I were to say, 'Okay, I will go along with your amendment', I would actually make an administrative obligation on top of that, to give some kind of written confirmation of that type of decision on paper each time. This is a heavy administrative burden, which really does not add much to the content.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u182	I disagree. It's about coercion, it's about involuntary care. Then you should at least inform the client, if you can, or else the family or a representative. I don't think that's crazy. Talking, discussing, that's fine, but I think there should be a formal moment because we're talking about a vulnerable group here. If my parents were in such a situation, as a representative or child, I would also like to know in writing the legal position of clients in what way and when that care is given and what it looks like. I do not think that is a strange request, nor a strange amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u183	But here's what I'm gonna do. This means a very substantial and additional administrative burden resulting from the law. The question must be whether this will provide additional legal protection. The answer to that question is, in my opinion, real: no. Because the care plan, the measure that involves a forced form of care, is discussed in the context of the adaptation of the care plan. The family is involved, the client is involved, as far as that goes. That's when you're having the conversation: what should we do? Do you think this is justified? Do you see any other ways of achieving the same thing? That's the conversation you're having. And then the family says, "Okay, let's do it." That's when you put that in the care plan, and then the care goes on like this. Legal protection is therefore guaranteed when the measure is taken. It is taken in consultation with the family, as this is required under the Roadmap. I do not see how writing a letter containing the text "we have talked about this, this has been the outcome of the discussion, we add this to the care plan" on top of that provides additional legal protection, except that it provides additional paperwork. I just don't see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u184	The Minister can and should look at this differently, but it is not the case that representatives look at care plans weekly or monthly. That's not gonna happen. We talk about "no, unless" every time. In that exceptional situation, involuntary care is chosen. Then, frankly, I don't think it's weird that you inform the person or, if you can't, the representative. Of course, that can be very low-threshold. It doesn't have to be a book, but at least you have to inform the family, the representative, about it. Again, we may think differently about that, but just when it comes to this group that seems to me to be a very important guarantee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u185	The fact that clients and representatives need to be informed is already in the law. This is stated in Article 13.2. The fact that the client and the representative should be involved in the decision taken in an appropriate manner in the situation is already in the law. That is just what the roadmap describes. What you want to add to that time and time again is like handing over a judicial authorization. That's the parallel you draw with the Wvggz. I say: be careful, because that doesn't really add much more than paper. I think it is okay to come back to this in the second term and to articulate the implication of a similar change a little bit better. I'm fine with that. I'll take my time. I could imagine, for example, that the President would suspend for a dinner break after this period. Then I'll take that time for dinner. It's a suggestion, isn't it, Mr. Chairman? We'd like to think along with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u186	My silent wish was for us to just finish him off. But, yes, you have something to figure out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u187	Yeah, I've got something to figure out. However, I could also return to it in writing before the vote. What I would like to do, if you will allow me to do so, is to look at the implications of this. As I now estimate, the law already states that the client and his representatives must be informed. The fact that the client has to be involved is already in the law. The question is what a written recap adds, except paper. I think that this implementation sequence is quite profound and the added value is rather low, but let me come back to that a little bit more slowly, in the second term or in writing. I shall come back to that in a moment in response to your amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u188	What the Minister describes is very much based on a situation in which the care organisation, the client and/or the family concerned are well in consultation and perhaps agree on what is needed. There are, of course, situations in which this is not possible and the healthcare provider, the care provider, says: we have to do something here, because there is serious disadvantage and so on. That's the whole foundation of the Health and Force Act. How is it now settled in those situations that the client and/or his or her family are informed at the time when the caretaker and the Wzd officer say "we are now going to implement the roadmap"? That's my first question. My second question is this. If I understand correctly, the family and the client always have access to what is contained in the care plan. Is what's on paper legal? Is that a ground on which you can rely and is the legal protection we seek also going to do its job with this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u189	The answer is yes, because you have, of course, the entire right of complaint at that time. You already have legal protection in the client confidant anyway. It may be that several children in a family do not all have the same view. Of course, that can be the case again. At that point it will be a little harder to do the reconciliation really to the full satisfaction of all children. It's possible. But the right of complaint is always open.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u190	That was my second question. The first question was how it is now arranged if that conversation between the care provider and the client and the family does not lead to anything, if they do not come to an agreement, but the concern says: we have to do something now. How are they informed? What is regulated by law to ensure that the family and/or the client are informed about starting the procedure or the step-by-step plan to achieve involuntary care?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u191	Article 13.2 states: "Before the involuntary care is provided for the first time, the caretaker informs the Wzd doctor, the representative and the client, unless this information would seem to raise serious concerns for the client. If the situation is so urgent that prior information is not possible, the caretaker shall inform all of them as soon as possible after the involuntary care has been provided or started." This situation is therefore foreseen. Then there's the registration. What should and should not be registered? The field is currently working that out. That is going to land in a ministerial arrangement, I say in the direction of Mr Hijink. The ministerial system must also be as practical as possible: to do the registrations, but in such a way that the people in the care do not all have to become half monks who spend all day rotting about what measures they have taken or have not taken. If you can sort it out a little bit, it should be possible. Similarly, work is currently under way on this ministerial arrangement. It has been asked whether or not children and youth psychologists are included in the BIG. That question came after we had said: if you want to broaden the person who can be the Wzd official, not only a doctor but also other officials, for example the orthopedagogic generalist, you will have to include it in the BIG. Why? Because this is subject to public discipline. This provides for legal protection similar to that required by the Law. That's where the choice was made. Then, of course, immediately came the question: what about the children's and youth psychologists? Why is it a wise idea to include them in the BIG? This has to do with the fact that you want to make the transition from 18-min to 18-plus care as much smooth as possible and would not want to apply a legally arranged cut. On the contrary, you would even like to facilitate in the law that it can be one and the same handler for 18-min and 18-plus. In order to assess whether or not a profession is eligible for regulation in the BIG Act, a number of policy criteria have been formulated: is the professional activity focused on individual health care, is the profession a basic profession including a national education, is it sufficiently distinctive and is legal regulation necessary to adequately protect patients? Given the increase in the number of applications for regulation and to further professionalise the assessment of these applications, a legislative proposal is in preparation to invest an advisory task at the Healthcare Institute for the admission of new professions. That's the BIG-II Act. You are, of course, talking to Mr Bruins about this. The Healthcare Institute tests new applications against those criteria. Following the opinion, I take the decision or Mr Bruins to regulate or not to regulate in the context of the inclusion of an appeal in the BIG Act. The request of children's and youth psychologists therefore stems from the broadening of the orthopedagogic generalist. No advice is requested on this matter from the Healthcare Institute because it is not a new request. In the note following the report on the Adaptations Act care and coercion I indicated that I am in conversation with the NIP, the professional association, about a inclusion of the profession of child and youth psychologist in the Law BIG. A recording in the BIG does require careful preparation. You have to have national training and training requirements. There is also a need for an internet consultation of the opening decision plus all the steps to be taken in a legislative process. In short, I am working on a proposal to include and include children's and youth psychologists in the BIG. Mr Slootweg asked whether the evaluation, the third step, would include the experience of clients and family. The answer is yes. Mrs Hermans asks if I can confirm that the Wvggz and the Forensic Care Act will enter into force in full on 1 January 2020. The answer is yes. Integrality also depends on the extent to which the Law enters into force care and compulsion and the integrality of those three laws. I'm assuming it's starting, but we have a transition year. We have discussed this in detail. I think that's what brought me to the end of this block. Then I have the block of the amendments, as far as they have been tabled. We have discussed in detail the amendment to item No. 10, Mr Hijink's amendment. I think you're expecting what I'm going to say about that. I am going to discourage that, because it is unclear to me what the added value is and because it is unclear to me what its implementation implications are. I have also said that I will come back to this in detail in the second term, and I am going to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u192	I would just like to point out that the amendment to item No. 10 has been replaced by the amendment to item No. 10 has been replaced by Amendment No. 10 has been replaced by Amendment No. 10 has been replaced by Amendment No. 10 has been replaced by Amendment No. 10 has been replaced by Amendment No. 10
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u193	Yeah, that's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u194	A question from Mr Renkema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u195	Let's talk about the varia cube. That was closed, but I'd like to ask another question about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u196	I think I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u197	It was just about the kids and youth psychiatrists. I've been asking you about social services. That doesn't fall under this law. However, I would like to have a response from the Minister on this point. More and more children and young people end up in closed youth aid. The word "closed" is, I think, the most obvious word when it comes to coercion. Today, in this law, we are dealing very comprehensively and precisely with how freedom limitation can take shape, with a roadmap and all kinds of experts. In the Youth Act it is actually described quite globally, namely that it is something in which the municipality has its responsibility. Could the glasses of this law and also of the law mandatory ggz in one way or another also apply to the situation of closed youth aid?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u198	No. I'm looking at something else. It is not the case that it is now very globally regulated in the Youth Act. That's not true. An authorisation must be issued for inclusion in a closed establishment. Any admission to an institution, against the will of parents or children, shall be subject to the issue of an authorisation for removal from the home with an appointment to the Children's Protection Board and a judgment given by the court. That goes for regular youth care. When it comes to Wlz institution care, of course, the Law on care and coercion applies. Then it's about applying compulsive measures in Wlz care. That's where the Health and Force Act applies. Where forced removal is concerned, i.e. with an authorisation to be placed under the Youth Act, there is always a need for a judicial decision. That doesn't change either. However, I understand your question. It concerns the legal status and legal protection of clients. This has also been asked in the process of examining the Health and Force Act in the First Chamber whether we should no longer harmonise it, because there are really differences in legal protection in the different legal regimes. Indeed, there is another type of legal protection for children if an authorisation has been given and a treatment is then carried out at that location. Of course, there is a tailor-made monitoring arrangement and the inspection is very critical of measures that are not well-founded. Nevertheless, there is a difference in legal status. Shouldn't you harmonise that? Mr Dekker and I are dealing with this issue. We're working on that right now. We tend to come up with a bill. I believe that it will be on the agenda for the first half of 2020 to come to the Chamber with it. So I understand the question. Mr. Chairman. I have arrived at the amendment to item No. 11 member of Bergkamp. That amendment says that the Chamber wishes to add a point C to the ministerial regulation, which lays down the level of education at which the caretaker can be appointed. That point regulates the veil for that part of the ministerial arrangement. I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber, because I do understand. The amendment in part No. 12 of the member of the Staaij asks to add: "If the client is incompetent and the representative and the client does not oppose the inclusion in the care plan of the measure which has the effect of restricting a client's freedom of movement for some time on medical or physical grounds, Article 11a, first and second paragraphs shall be applied mutatis mutandis." The starting point is that everyone has the freedom to organise their lives. Although there is no formal involuntary care, the measures envisaged by this amendment are so far-reaching, and thus potentially a violation of one's autonomy and legal status, which cannot be satisfied with the simplified review by a Wzd official. After all, it concerns a client who is no longer able to express his will. In the situation of this vulnerable client, such far-reaching care needs to be carefully considered. By the way, you mentioned the bed fence as an example, I would stress that a bed fence is not necessarily a restriction of freedom. Maybe that could give a similar type of relief. There are bed fences that only prevent someone from rolling out of their bed and do not try to restrict them in their freedom. They're just trying to prevent a trap. Those are bed fences that someone can put down in the morning when he wakes up. There are also bed fences that have a recess at the foot end, so that someone can actually get out of his bed. That type of bed fences does not constitute a restriction of freedom, because they do not restrict freedom. They just prevent someone from falling. Maybe some of that lighting could come out of that. I predict that, if we start evaluating the law in three years' time, this type of example will really come up in the evaluation. You will then be given a more detailed explanation of the situation in which the roadmap is of added value. Oh, I hear Apple's gonna think along.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u199	We do hear the announcement on your phone: here's the App Store. What are you going to download for us, Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u200	I'm gonna put my phone away, because it's complicated enough without Apple interfering. I can therefore imagine that this type of issue will be addressed in the evaluation: in what situation, in what situation, and in what situation can you do a light test? But I would not choose to put this out of hand in advance, in the situation as you describe it in the case of willlessness.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u201	The concern that we hear from practice is that it is also a very light form, such as that wheelchair blade, which is a restriction when you are in a wheelchair.............................................................................................................................................................................................. It was this concern that expressed the wish for this amendment. Does the Minister also see the problem that this heavy regime can still apply to a number of forms of concern, which are not actually perceived as coercion at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u202	I can see it. That is why I think this is going to be part of the evaluation. But I am not in favour of putting this type of measure out of hand in advance. I think that the realization that something is a measure that involves coercion or a measure that can be against the will of people is a good idea and that it is wise that the roadmap brings that to the attention of people. Do I expect a very detailed meeting to take place here? I don't think so. In this case, I think it is a rather quick consultation on the content of the care plan, which should be taken into account. Frankly, I think that it is also a question of implementation which is somewhat ludicrous in its bureaucratic implications. You're gonna have to have the conversation about the care plan. And in the care plan, you write this down. It is good to exchange this: yes, there is a measure here that restricts freedom. It's good to be aware of that. Then you get a nod and continue with the other elements in that care plan. So it is not always a very comprehensive meeting where people from all over the world have to come to speak specifically about this one measure. Of course, you're just having the conversation about the care plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u203	But if you follow the roadmap, it's more than just putting something in the care plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u204	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u205	Then the question is whether you will actually pay sufficient attention to those parts that require much more that really emphasized weighting, if it becomes too much a kind of routine "let everything fall underneath."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u206	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u207	That's a concern I have if you stack this too much and if you make too little distinction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u208	That's the other side. It's also a trade-off. I understand the dilemma you are putting forward, but I predict that this will come back to the evaluation. I can see that. But what you are doing is putting that type of measure out of hand in advance. I would regret that again, because we are still not sufficiently aware of the fact that measures could actually restrict people's freedom. So I advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u209	Dissuade. That's what I was gonna say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u210	I shall go to the amendment on item No. 13.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u211	Can the following amendments be judged a little shorter and more pointy? I hear stomachs rattling in the plenary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u212	You wanted to finish, I just understood. But that's what you came back from.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u213	You are so compelling; you leave me no choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u214	Well, of course I'm hungry and thirsty. The amendment tabled by Mr Bergkamp and Mr Renkema is about 'I need to scan as quickly as possible', the combination of an authorisation under the Wlz and an authorisation under the Wzd and the question whether, if this happens in conjunction, it can also be requested by the family. That is actually the current practice of implementation. I'd like to leave that judgment to the Chamber. Mr Slootweg has in part No. 14 tabled an amendment re-introducing the external experts I had so skilfully removed from step one. We have just discussed this in detail, so I think I can leave it to the reference to that dispute. Then I would advise against that amendment. I would also like to respond to the other amendments which are still a bit in the air in the second term, if that is all right with you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u215	Then we have a nice cliffhanger for our millions of people at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u216	Oh, yeah. Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u217	Then I'll suspend until 8:00 for dinner. May it be for all of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u218	We will continue with the second term of the Chamber. The first speaker is Mr Slootweg of the CDA group. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u219	Thank you very much, Mr President. I think we have had a good debate, in which a number of points have been reviewed. I still have my assessment on a number of matters. In the first instance, we think that the transitional year proposed is a good form of getting on with it. What I think is important, and what I would like to emphasise, is that the Minister has indicated: "This is not going to be an empty law, in the sense that we are going to let him go in, but nothing else is going to happen. I really think that this law should have substance and that the field should also look at what that law aims to do, namely to apply care and coercion." The latter is not a light-hearted thing, so I repeat. The second point is the client confidant. I heard the minister right. He says: the legal protection in the Law mandatory ggz and those in the Law care and coercion are about equivalent, but are organised in a different way. If there is to be an evaluation, what is to be done in three years' time, would it help us to look at the question: what is going to happen with the legal protection and the guidance, and are they indeed the same? Because of course one is organized nationwide and the other more through the health offices. The third point is the Wzd official. If I may give an assessment, I find that a chaotic process. I think it was quite a novelty in the country's conference room. I think it has not happened many times that, even before the Minister himself made his own judgment, it has been said 'we will withdraw it anyway', as I heard in the discussion between Members of Parliament. But that does mean something. Since a number of changes have been made, I think it is very important for the Minister to ensure that in the field it becomes very clear who has the final responsibility. Because there have of course already been a number of pieces; that doesn't make it any easier to read back. It is, I think, really important that the field is well communicated: who is ultimately responsible when it comes to medical elements as a Wzd officer, and who is that about more behavioural elements? Then I will go into our amendment. I've seen the discussion, too. For us, however, it remains very important that you put those external experts at the head of the process. I understand the administrative burden and the considerations. For us, however, here is the point of principle that it is really sensible to let compulsion care take a look at it from the outside. You can say that's what you're doing over and over again, but that's really not the same thing. I do not know if I have been able to convince the Chamber in that, but we think it is very important that it should remain at the head of the process. Finally. Everyone stays looking, and I think that's good, too. That makes an evaluation very necessary. Before an evaluation is carried out, the CDA seems wise to send an outline of the evaluation to the House of Representatives. In this way we can see whether the elements that we in the Chamber consider important are taken into account. I hope for a commitment from the Minister. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u220	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Hijink of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u221	We're gonna have to bring it down half a meter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u222	- From the ER? - Yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u223	Yeah, 'cause I'm gonna stand here for 45 minutes. Mr. Chairman. It is no surprise that the SP is not in favour of the amendment as it stands. We have talked about this extensively today. I don't think anyone had the impression it would be any different either. We are not in favour of the removal of the responsibility for coercive care, for involuntary care, from a doctor and being deposited with a family psychologist or an orthopedagogue. This is certainly not because we have doubts about the expertise of these professions, but we note that they are experts in another field. It is precisely in disability care and in care for the elderly that many things do indeed have a medical component. You always want to rule out the fact that medical matters are the basis of, the cause of, problematic behavior. I would like to stress once again that this is not some kind of sting towards all those ggz psychologists, all those orthopedagogics, doing fantastic work in the ggz, in the care of the disabled and in the care of the elderly; that is absolutely not my concern. I am concerned that cooperation is good, that teamwork is being carried out and that the best care for clients is being taken in consultation. As far as final responsibility is concerned, we are only making a different assessment on this point. For all these different forms of care, you have to choose the one who has been trained as widely as possible and who has an overview of what is best in full width. Why do we think that's important? I emphasized that, because pain can sometimes lead to aggressive behavior. Think of an older man in a nursing home or not in a nursing home, but in disability care; perhaps that is a better example. An older man, intellectually limited, may at a certain time exhibit behavior caused by his limitation. But at some point it can also be the early stage of dementia or Alzheimer's. You want to rule out such a cause being missed. That is why we say: make sure that a doctor is always involved. Enforcement also has medical consequences. The imposition of coercive care, even if the cause is not medical, can indeed have medical effects in the aftermath, which makes it important to keep a doctor involved. In advance is even better, but certainly afterwards. Finally. We've had a discussion about the client confidence person. I find it difficult to say that it is regulated enough in the law at this time. I think so, but I can't say exactly. I'm not quite sure yet. I'm about to table a motion on that. At the moment, I would like to see the amendment on item No. 10, which is now the amendment to item No. Turned 16, moved in. 'Cause I want to file a motion now. If it turns out that it is still necessary to make an amendment, I will do it again. But right now, I'm choosing to file this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u224	The Heink/Bergkamp amendment (Doc. 16) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u225	Yes. Then I'll come to the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the interests of the legal protection of clients, it is important that clients and their representatives are promptly informed of their rights in situations where involuntary care is imposed;]] [[calls on the Government to explicitly emphasise this legal protection of clients in the communication and explanation of the Healthcare and Force Act towards healthcare providers and healthcare providers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Hijink and Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35087-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u226	Thank you, Mr President. I believe that this was a good and sometimes technical debate on an important law. This law is about the involuntary care that can be used if it really cannot be otherwise, after going through a careful procedure with all concerned. The core of today's discussion was about the Wzd official. The fact that we are having this discussion today is due to the Leijten amendment. I am deliberately saying 'thanks to the amendment', because for the VVD Group, the addition of what was initially the Wzd doctor now we are talking about the 'Wzd official' really is an improvement of the law, for good care and for the position of the client. Today, the discussion focused on whether the Wzd official should always be a doctor, or whether in cases this could also be a ggz psychologist or an orthopedagogic generalist. Mr Hijink rightly asked me whether a Wzd official with a behavioral background provides sufficient protection not only for the client, but also for the care provider. I promised to think about it, and I did. I'm sticking to my judgment. I believe that the Wzd official can also be a ggz psychologist or an orthopedagogic generalist. As Mr Hijink has just said in his term, I am making a different assessment. The staff member is ultimately responsible for going through a step-by-step plan, but he always decides after discussions in the multidisciplinary consultation, in which the caretaker is also involved; Mrs Bergkamp asked me for it in the first period. In my opinion, he knows the client. He can bring a client's medical background into discussions about involuntary care. That seems sufficient to me, for the position of the client and for the provision of good care. The amendment in part No. 15, which I have tabled, is therefore intended to remove the ambiguity caused by the letter of amendment, which meant to create clarity but which did not entirely work out in the way it worked out, and to go back to the text in the original amendment proposal. This clarity is important for the implementation and implementation of the VVD. In this context, we welcome the Minister's commitment to come forward with a plan for the transition year before the summer. I would ask the Minister to go into one more point in the letter he is going to send on this, namely a question from my first term, on which I have missed the answer. What will be the role of the GP if the Health and Force Act is applied in the home situation? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u227	Thank you. Then Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u228	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. It will be clear from my contribution in the first period that we support the substance of this bill. We think it is an improvement on the bill which has already passed through the First Chamber but which has not yet entered into force. I would like to return briefly to two points which I raised in my first term. That is first and foremost the amendment to item No. 12. I would like to give a precise answer to Mr Slootweg's question as to what is the difference with what has ever been tabled before. This amendment maintains the supervision of the Wzd Officer. That's just a supplement. I would like to table a motion on the possible deployment of district nurses as a Wzd officer in the future. That motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Government wishes to provide all forms of involuntary care, including by home care organisations;]] [[Whereas a care plan in home care is assessed by HBO-skilled district nurses;]] [[Whereas district nurses, apart from the lack of academic training, meet all material criteria for assessing a district nursing care plan which includes involuntary care;]] [[calls on the Government, together with the sector, to examine the conditions under which district nurses can be designated as Wzd officials in the future,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35087-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u229	I have just asked the Minister whether, with this amendment of the law, we are not taking the risk that we are going to start something, namely to gradually scale down the responsibility for involuntary care. That's not what I mean, by the way, in front of the district nurses. Mr Van der Staaij is actually already taking the first step, which is to keep the option open that the district nurse should also decide on involuntary care. That is exactly the point I made just now in the direction of the Minister. Then we're actually on a sliding scale, aren't we? How does Mr Van der Staaij react to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u230	I understand that from Mr Hijink's reasoning, but I myself indicated in my term that I am looking more closely at what is the domain where it belongs best. When it comes to assessing a care plan, I do not necessarily think that a doctor would prefer to a psychologist or a district nurse, who also have very far-reaching powers in terms of indication and such. But I realize that there is more to it and that this is not something you say: do it for a while. That is why I have now given up making an amendment. But in my motion I would ask the Minister to consider the conditions under which this might be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u231	I would just like to warn against the slow, little by little fragmentation of the legal protection of people affected by these very radical measures. I think we should be careful about that. I do not think it is wise to open the debate on whether or not it should be a doctor immediately after such an extensive discussion about whether or not it should be the district nurse and who knows who else to become.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u232	We are not so much opening a new battle with this. This was also just one of the points we were given. This is also requested from the field. So there were different discussions. If you say that this can indeed be designed in a different way, then the question is why this could not be done. I also spoke specifically about HBO nurses. If you look at any serious powers that have, I'm just having trouble thinking in which the doctor is the model for legal protection. All that is different about it is then less: that is scaling down or crumbling down. Once again, I advocate a more flexible view of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u233	I'm in favour of the Adaptation Act, so I'm gonna change it a little bit. In my view, Mr Van der Staaij shares what I have said in my speech, namely that the whole extramural, home care, is really still an unexplored area in terms of the area of care and coercion, the involuntary care. I am therefore a little afraid that this motion may raise expectations and perhaps a little more ambiguity. When it comes to the extramural, there's a lot of confusion. I do not want to sit in the role of the Minister, but I think the motion is a little premature. The Minister can take the point into account in the evaluation, but I would ask Mr Van der Staaij to keep this motion. I understand the approach, but during the debate we saw that the extramural is actually quite tricky and that we really need to see how that goes. In view of this discussion, I now find it very vulnerable to open the discussion as to whether the district nurse can do it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u234	I hear what Mrs Bergkamp says. We had raised this in writing earlier. The discussion was about whether it should always be the doctor or whether it could be someone else. Then I think it makes sense for you not only to say that this can be done in the disabled sector, but that it must be done afterwards, but that you do wonder where else it can be done and where it cannot be done. I thought this was a real question that was put to me. I indicated that I did think it was too soon to opt for an amendment now. So far I have only heard the argument: there is no academic education, point. I find it too skinny to say: that is true, then we should make it completely impossible. I would very much like to see a closer look at this and a better examination of it. If there are more qualitative arguments showing that this is really not possible, then I would be open to it, but I have not heard them so far. That is why I would be sorry to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u235	Short closing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u236	I understand that "no academic title" should not be the argument, but what can be an argument, is that the whole extramural when it comes to care and coercion is really unexplored territory. That could be an argument to say: let us first see how things are going, let us experience that in practice. And if we learn things in that year, maybe we can... That is the call I make to Mr Van der Staaij. That extramural area is unexplored, so it's really premature to start all that discussion right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u237	Yes, I understand Mrs Bergkamp's point, but I think it is too early to say now: let's do it this way. We're just gonna do it according to the law, and that's not gonna do it. It's not like that in the law, and I don't care about that either. But if you're going to get that practical experience now, you need to see if the district nurse could do the same. So what are the conditions to be met? If the conclusion is that they can't meet those conditions, that's just the conclusion, but I'm not getting it right now. Hence my need to continue with this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u238	Then Mrs Bergkamp of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u239	Thank you. Chairman. I thank the Minister and I also thank the Bureau of Legislation and the staff of VWS. This is quite a complex law and it is very nice that there are people who think along with it and make suggestions, which allowed us to do our thing in this debate. So a word of thanks to them. We had a good debate and exchanged a lot of things. I do not think it is necessary to start the debate again or to repeat moves. It's a complex law with a divided support in the field. Nevertheless, it is a good thing that we are putting this law into practice. The simple reason is that this law is better than the current law. I would like to thank the Minister for the promise that in a few weeks' time there will be a letter in which that transitional year will be very well implemented. What can people expect, what can clients expect? I would ask the Minister to pay particular attention to extramurals, home care, small residential initiatives, pgb. It is important that people, including the health professionals, know where they stand. I thank the Minister for looking at the CIZ. I suggest that we also look at the policy rules. We are going to introduce care and coercion into the law, even when it comes to the situation at home. It seems very good to me that the CIZ also looks at these indications in that way and can take this with it. It's nice to have the Minister come back to that in a few weeks. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u240	The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Agema, but she will waive her speaking time. Is the Minister already able to answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u241	Three minutes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u242	Then I'll suspend for three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u243	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u244	Mr President, thank you. I'm just running the questions and any motions between them by order of entry. I shall begin with the first question from the CDA on the transition year. Mr Slootweg asked for confirmation that the transitional year should not contain an empty law. On the contrary, I would like to say that the transitional year is going to be a transitional year in substance. On how we are going to shape this, I am going to send you a letter before 1 July, so that, if necessary, we could have another debate on it. Two. Could the client confidant be involved in the evaluation? I'd be happy to say so. At all events, you are asking whether the design of the evaluation could possibly be sent to the Chamber so that we can discuss it. Of course, I'd like to say; I think it's fine to do that. The Wzd official. You give a qualification to the process that I do not fully share, but apart from that you say that there must already be clarity about who is ultimately responsible. I believe that this has been clarified when you support the Adaptation Act, including the amendment tabled by Mrs Hermans. I'll deal with that in a moment. If you do that, it will give you clarity. I would also like to comment on Mr Hijink's reasoning as to why he is not very enthusiastic about this adaptation law. Until the end, I would like to keep the possibility open that I could still convince people. I just think that's a nice, hopeful thought to be in life. You disappoint me somewhat, Mr Slootweg, that you seem to want to stick to the amendment on the external expert. I would nevertheless like to invite you to consider whether a reconsideration of that commitment might be appropriate. You argue that you would be well advised to involve that external expertise earlier in that process, because you think that the decision that is then taken will benefit. I think I have given you a number of arguments as to why, after the Leijten amendment from the first reading of the Wzd, it does not make any sense at all. There was indeed very few strange eyes before. You had the caretaker, you had one person from another discipline in the organization and in medical cases a doctor was involved. That was the initial design of the Care and Force Act, but then the Wzd doctor, which we now adapt to become a Wzd officer, was introduced. That's how you've got those strange eyes. This gives you the strange eyes of the person who is ultimately responsible for the care decisions within the institution. Those are strange eyes. That was also the reason why it was a little double-up to hold on to that external expert at the first decision. At a second meeting, you'll get someone from another organization. Excuse me, someone who's not involved in the care. And in the third discussion, just when you need to look at whether or not that measure should be continued, you bring in that external expert. Thus, as the measure lasts longer, you actually have a kind of scaling up in heaviness. Then why do you need that outside expert? Well, a new pair of fresh eyes. You're actually saying it might be possible, but do it at the beginning anyway. I think that is wrong, including the implementation implications that that has for the field. Where, after the Leijten amendment, it does not really add anything more to the substance, it obviously means a lot. And the smaller the setting, the more it means. It just means that you are constantly on the phone for external experts. That tax is much heavier if you do it in front, while the added value is not greater if you do it in front. I would therefore like to invite you to consider whether there is any reason for reconsidering that amendment. Mr. Chairman. I am going to mention one more reason why perhaps we should reconsider. Of course, I would also very much like to have Mr Slootweg on board at this point. What we could do in the evaluation is to see if you're missing an outside expert somewhere in those case studies, somewhere in those MDOs. Is it now missed in coming to a proper consideration? It could be. So within three years we can see if we miss those strange eyes somewhere, which we do have after a month or six. Do you miss them in the initial decision on the use of forced measures? Do you miss it? We can do that. That too could help. Mr President, that should be enough, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u245	We're gonna listen to it. Mr. Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u246	Let me begin by thanking the Minister for the explanation he has given. In any case, I will be very grateful that the evaluation looks at the question: do you miss him? I would like to make another point. The minister's giving us a whole step-by-step plan. I think that is important, and that is why I take this review seriously. I am also listening to the clamp on which the Minister asks: pull it in, because I think we can solve it in a better way. However, I believe that there are situations in this whole step-by-step plan where some of the functions indicated by the Minister come together in one person. That was our fear. We didn't come up with that on our own at the drawing board. The question really came to us: look at that. But I am listening very carefully to the Minister and I am also listening to what he has to say about this. When the Minister states that he will take this with him in the evaluation and see if that is missed, and when he says that the example I am raising will undoubtedly come forward, I can live with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u247	And so we withdraw your amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u248	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u249	The Slootweg amendment (Doc. 14) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u250	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the same spirit I would like to emphasise once more in the direction of Mr Hijink... No, I don't want to be silly. I don't think I'm gonna convince you. I heard you very well in first and second terms. However, I would like to add that the reason why you are not enthusiastic is a reason that I understand. That reason, to my taste, does not find any basis in the law as it stands. I'll try to explain that. Your concern is in here. For example, if pain is a background for behavior that a behavior expert might say he would actually like to take a forced measure, you would like to have the eyes of a doctor to rule out the fact that this is based on a medical background. I understand that one very well. It is precisely for this reason that the law lays down that, in the case of medical treatment, in any case, of course, but also in the case of the restriction of freedom of movement and the inclusion of a client, there must always be the involvement of a doctor. So just in those cases where Mr. Hijink says you need a doctor to do it, the law says you need to get a doctor involved. That is stated in Article 10, third paragraph, of the Wzd. If the caretaker is not a doctor, a doctor must always be involved in the case of medical treatment, containment or restriction of movement. It is precisely in those cases for which you consider it necessary that the law also provides for it. My point is that in the examples we have just discussed in the first term, namely where purely behavioural matters are concerned, it is really not necessary, so there really would be no added value. Mr President, I do not have any more arguments. I thought it was a pretty good story myself. You withdraw the amendment on the client confidant, but then you table a motion on it. That's the motion in part No. 17, which asks the government "to explicitly emphasise this legal protection of clients in the communication and explanation of the Healthcare and Force Act towards healthcare providers and healthcare providers." I understand that very well and I wholeheartedly support it. I should therefore like to leave this motion to the House. The VVD has tabled an amendment to the much debated subject. In fact, this amendment corrects the ambiguity which I inadvertently, but nevertheless, caused by the letter of amendment which I sent over the Adaptation Act. We've talked enough about that. I therefore support this amendment. In addition, the VVD asks about the role of the general practitioner. Does that doctor have a role to play? The answer is yes. The general practitioner has a role to play if the general practitioner himself is the one who dictates a forced measure. If this is not the case, the responsibility for the forced action will of course lie with the organisation involved in the care in the outpatient situation, which is responsible for the forced action. When it comes to medical treatment, the general practitioner will always be involved, because he always has a role to play when there is a measure in the home situation, especially when it comes to medical treatment but also when it comes to containment or restriction of freedom of movement. The GP will then be involved in one of the steps of the roadmap. I think it would be a good idea if I could go back to this more precisely in our description of what that transitional year is about. I think that might be helpful. Then the SGP. In the Van der Staaij motion, in part No. 18, the Government is invited to examine, together with the sector, the conditions under which district nurses could in future be designated as Wzd officials. I have just followed the debate on the interruption. I understand that Mr Van der Staaij is not looking to have this settled tomorrow, but that he is saying that he can imagine that this role could also be played by the district nurse. Is the mere fact of the academic degree sufficiently distinctive not to want that? I look more at this from the point of view of implementation and then I am more on the line already outlined by Mrs Bergkamp. I would not necessarily like to see the level of education as the most important distinction, but I do see that when it comes to forced care in the home situation and another than a doctor who has the role of the Wzd officer introduced by Mrs Leijten, who is actually already very exciting about the field. I would therefore like to propose that this issue be included in the evaluation. Then we are three years further on, we have been able to practice the implementation practice and we are also further into how exciting we all find it, I think. That is a better time to think about whether there could also be a broadening of the role that the Wzd official could play. For that reason, I would like to discourage the motion. Or you should want to keep her for three years, but that seems to me to be such a long time, then I ask for a great deal of patience.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u251	I'm tasting the Minister's spirit to get out of anywhere tonight, so I'm gonna try again anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u252	Just do it! Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u253	I get it when you say this is actually too early and uncomfortable. But don't we miss something when you say, "I'll get back to you, put the motion in the fridge for three years, and then we'll look into the evaluation"? In the meantime, towards the evaluation, could we not look at what we see in practice that is really necessary and useful for that Wzd officer? For example, during the evaluation you have material to determine whether a change is needed. Could that be a possibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u254	Well, look, we don't have to put the motion in the fridge. We could put her on the fruit bowl, too. I'm okay with that. There is never a ban on thinking, of course, there is no ban on thinking. But in a part of the field, a limited part, certainly not in disability care, the broadening of the role of the Wzd officer is already seen as quite exciting. I would therefore like to prevent us now radiating to the field where we are going to hink-step-jump another professional group. For the implementation now and for the rest of the implementation I would not think it wise. Is it prohibited on the way to that evaluation to consider whether there would be other officials in that role? No, there's no ban on thinking. But you're asking for something else here. You are asking for a genuine examination of the conditions under which nurses can be appointed as Wzd officials in the future. When you ask it that way, it almost seems like you're planning it and just looking at the conditions under which it can be done. I'm not saying it couldn't be done forever. But let's do it in the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u255	With this explanation and hearing how this subject lives in the Chamber, I am prepared to withdraw the motion. However, I would like the Minister's undertaking that this point will then be the subject of particular attention during the evaluation and that he will also gradually monitor what we see in practice. What requirements and conditions are important there for the functioning of this Wzd official?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u256	Yeah, that sounds like a really good deal. We have already been asked whether we could discuss the design of the evaluation. It seems to me a good time to include that we should also consider what other officials might be able to play the role of Wzd official. That also obliges us to keep that thinking going until the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u257	Since the Van der Staaij motion (No) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u258	Mrs Bergkamp also stressed that it would be good to speak again in a few weeks' time, but in particular under what conditions that transitional year could be a meaningful year of transition. That letter will be here before 1 July, with all the ingredients you have also named. (NL) Mr President, that's what es dann is all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u259	It's beautiful.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-9.u260	Thank you to the Minister for his presence. On Tuesday we shall vote on the law, the amendments and the remaining motion. I'm closing the meeting for today.
