ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-5.u1	Finally, on behalf of D66, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Belhaj for her question to the Secretary of State for Defence, whom I would also like to welcome, about insufficient money for reserveists. I call Mrs Belhaj on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr President, thank you. Today there was a very special message in De Telegraaf, namely "Defensie recruits reservists and sends them away at the same time." D66 believes it is very important that the armed forces recover as soon as possible. I also think it is a good thing that this coalition is making so many extra investments to get the armed forces back on their feet as soon as possible. The sad thing is that the armed forces currently have 8,400 vacancies. That's an incredibly high number. We are working very hard to ensure that as many people as possible find their way back to the armed forces. One of the ways to let people find their way is to appoint reservists. Those are people who may have a different job, but find it extremely nice to employ themselves in addition for the armed forces. In fact, all the political parties in the Chamber have indicated that this is important. That's why this message surprised me. I was thinking, on the one hand, how can you be so active and happy, with money, recruiting people and, at the same time, letting people walk out the door? Two. If I also have to read in the newspaper that there is a lack of money or that money had to be put away to make sure that you can get reservists, then I think: Secretary of State, how can that be?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-5.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-5.u4	With the emphasis on short, I saw you beckoning, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for Mrs Belhaj's question, too. I think she's a good judge of the importance of reservists. That is why we have made extra money available for them during this cabinet period. At the start of this cabinet period, we had 32 million. We're at over 50 million now. This means that there is a strong use of reserves, both because of their support and because of the specialities they take with them. So we also see that we have many more reservists. I reported to you in September about the increase in hours and the number of reservists. So that means that the success we thought we had achieved with that increase from 32 million to 50 million has become much greater than we initially thought. However, it is not the case that we have sent reservists home because of a lack of money. It might be good to name that. We know two kinds of reservists. We know reservists who are deployed at the NATRES, at the army, and reservists who are deployed on the basis of an individual deployment. That is always for a certain contract period, for a certain duration and a certain number of hours. That's agreed with the reservist in advance. This summer, it has been explicitly examined which projects are going on and which projects we would like to continue. But no one was removed from his contract prematurely, no one was sent home prematurely for lack of money or whatever, precisely because of the importance that Mrs Belhaj indicates. We think it's important to tie reservists to us and deploy them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-5.u5	I was hoping that we would be out in one round, given the time. But I find one thing a little unclear. If it says that people have been sent away, I think: couldn't we have put them in for something else? It takes a lot of time to recruit those people, get them in and organize all these bureaucratic things, and then we just let them go. I still don't have an answer to that. I still have no answer to the question as to how you think you have reserved enough money, but have not actually done so and then have to move something somewhere. I would like an answer from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-5.u6	Mr. Chairman. I tried to answer Mrs Belhaj's question. I replied that individual reservists are being deployed for a project and for a certain period of time. No one was taken off that project because of the contract that ran. That contract's just been properly served. We have 3,000 of these people. It always ends at some point. Then those people either do something different within the Defense Department or they go back to their own employer. But they'll always be reservist anyway. That is also the core: they are individually appealable. It is a flexible shell, in which people are called on on the basis of certain projects and certain expertise. At some point it stops and then people go back, they becomezzp'er again or they do another job within the Defense Department that is asked for. I have answered the first question. The second question concerns the budget. This is partly because we have more success in both recruiting and retaining reserves. The way we work towards an adaptive force, where we connect more people from business and education, scores more than we thought. We have also had this debate in the budget. We need to get to a more flexible organization anyway. That is why we want a different model of personnel, in which, as far as I am concerned, there is another position of reserveists. This is part of the broad discussion on what contracts we offer our people. You call for a much broader view than just the age of 18 to 28. That's part of the discussion. We're gonna find out what budget is necessary for reservists. I imagine that could be your follow-up question. What is needed, given the flexible shell we think we need? What budget does that include? Then we can indicate what that means and then we can debate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-5.u7	I understand that the Secretary of State says that this is also a long-term issue and that much remains to be done. Nevertheless, I think it is also an art to catch the short successes. I find that answer a little unsatisfactory, but perhaps the Secretary of State can come back to it later in a letter or something like that. If you have people whose contracts have expired and who have worked for something, it makes sense to me that you don't let them walk out the door, but that you try to put them in one of the other many places where we need them as soon as possible. If you don't have those spots yet, you need to create them as soon as possible. There are 8,400 vacancies and there must be all kinds of changes in the armed forces to solve this. In my opinion, you have to think about the long term and at the same time make sure that you take short blows, otherwise we simply cannot make sure that the armed forces can fulfil our constitutional task, namely to ensure security in the Netherlands and internationally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-5.u8	The core of being a reservist is that you are available on call. So it's not like people are being sent away. Either way, they're gonna be reservist, except their job's done. You are hired because of your purchasing expertise or because of your legal knowledge, because certain jobs need to be done. That's gonna end at some point. Then it may be that you say: I'm a reservist, but I don't do jobs for the Defense Department, because I'm just going back to my employer or to myzzp-ship. But the core of being a reservist is that you're not a regular employee of the Defense Department, but that you're just on specialty call. So that's the point. They remain reservist however; only it is not always the case that there are continuous jobs. But people don't want that either. That's why they're reservist and say: I love that organization, I love Defence, and I want to do something in the context of social interest, but not continuously; I don't want to be constantly military, but to provide a certain expertise. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-5.u9	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs Belhaj. That brings us to the end of this Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments, after which we shall vote.
