ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is oral Question Time, and we shall begin today with Mrs Marijnissen's question on behalf of the SP to the Prime Minister, whom I would also like to welcome, on his statements on wages. I call Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u2	"The profits of large companies are plotting against the boards, but the only thing that is really rising in these big companies are the salaries of the top men, not the collective agreements. They do not go up enough and I do not think that is acceptable." Mr. Chairman. It's not my words. Believe it or not, I am not quoting from my own work or from the SP election programme. I quote our Prime Minister last Saturday at a party meeting of his VVD. Welcome to the new VVD! You know, that party that always so passionately defended the interests of multinationals and shareholders. You know, the party that defended here for months to the depths of its fibres that the dividend tax should be abolished, otherwise it would be at the expense of our economy. And now this VVD suddenly has a new story: an unadulterated plea for higher wages in the workplace. Mr. Chairman. It may go a little far to say that I could not have said it better than the Prime Minister, but honour who deserves credit: these were fine lyrics.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u3	Well, then I'll go!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u4	And it would be about time, after 40 years! Last Thursday we organised a symposium on the need for higher wages, with speakers from Rabobank, CBS and De Nederlandsche Bank. In fact, everyone agreed that wages in the Netherlands should and can be raised. But it got even better on Saturday. There was even a threat from the Prime Minister. If wages do not rise significantly, the Prime Minister will not reduce the tax on profits for the same companies. Mr President, you will understand: by now there was applause in the Marijnis house. But you will also understand that today we would like the Prime Minister to clarify exactly what this beautiful muscle language means. That is why my question is: how much should the wages per when increase before the Prime Minister turns his threats into action?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u5	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u6	Mr President, thank you. I made this point at my conference last Saturday. Mrs Marijnissen has put that perfectly and not shopped in my words, but quoted neatly. I understand that she thinks this is about bread robberies, but that is by no means the case. The differences between her party and my party can't be greater, and bread robberies, none of us are for that. This is a very fundamental post-war agreement. That agreement is that if the companies are doing well, people are doing well; and if the companies are doing less, then we are all taking this into account. We are now seeing that on average the top men of these companies have twice as much wage growth as the people working there, and that in most cases salaries are rising below inflation. That means that this deal, this post-war agreement, which is crucial to keep the space for these companies in the Netherlands to continue to undertake, we give them as a society the right to do their good work here, to create innovative power and jobs, is actually under discussion at the moment. That is why I said: I think it should be different. I think those salaries should be increased. I am not going to mention a percentage here, because I think these companies know very well. When I look at what those top men get, well, that's a direction they can think. The second is: if they do not, then as foreman of my party I will be in a rather special position under state law, I am here as a VVD leader in the coalition suggesting that we should indeed continue to reduce the top rate of corporation tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u7	The Prime Minister refers to an old deal, as he calls it, that if things go well at the top of the big companies, people will be fine. The point is that it doesn't turn out to be. That's what he's right to find out. That is why my question is very specific about what he is going to do, because I still hear very little about what he is going to do. I would like to make some concrete suggestions to him, things that the government could do to promote wage growth. For example, the Prime Minister could choose to raise the minimum wage in the Netherlands. That is laid down by law here, so we can decide how high that is. This would prevent more and more Dutch living in poverty. This can also ensure that there is a driving effect on the rest of the wages. The Prime Minister may also choose to increase the salaries of care staff, officials, police officers and teachers. Because if salaries go up in the government, then the market can, of course, then those big companies of the Prime Minister cannot be left behind. If he doesn't like all that, he can also choose to tackle the insecure contracts, to give employees more control through a gold share. He can choose to introduce profit sharing to those same companies. They make billions of profits, and the people who make sure that profits are made, namely the workers, see so little of them. In short, just a few ideas that I am putting to the Prime Minister, and he can now say what he is going to do to actually increase wages. I'm kind of curious which one he's gonna start with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u8	The last one was?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u9	Which one he's gonna start with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u10	Of your ideas?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u11	For example.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u12	Well, look, some things we do and some things we won't do because we just disagree. Of course, we do a number of things. For example, look at the investments made by the government in the public sector, 6 billion to 8 billion, depending on how you calculate it, i.e. in education and in health care. Look at the wage increases over there. Look also at the need to put public finances in order. The cabinet does a lot and I'd like more. As a cabinet, I would definitely like to do more than we are doing now, but we must ensure that the economy continues to grow. That doesn't look bad right now. The economy also seems to continue to grow at a significant pace in the coming years and unemployment seems to remain low. I hope that this will allow us to continue investing in the public sector in the coming years, reducing the burden and also putting public finances in order. However, the agreement is that the companies concerned are the larger companies which play their part. Mrs Marijnissen and I both know that we all know that these big companies are very trend-setting about what happens in collective agreements in the Netherlands. If, in the end, there are collective bargaining increases which are in many cases below inflation, then that also says something about what is going to happen in other sectors. So the trend-setting of these companies is very important. Why am I so attached to this? Because I am fighting for that large group of Dutchmen with a very normal salary that is increasingly sometimes under pressure, not because now the salary is the first problem, but because the buffers run out to a lot of people. If there is then a divorce, if there is a job loss or if there is a large investment to be made for one's own company, then you actually find that those buffers are not enough to cope with that. That is why it is so important that now that we are coming out of this crisis, especially to set the tone of the big companies and ensure that there are significantly higher wage increases than they currently offer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u13	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u14	I agree, but the question is, of course, what is the Prime Minister going to do? I still hear so little about what he's going to do, and unfortunately that gives so little confidence. The Prime Minister could also choose to do something right now that improves people's income position, for example to reduce the burden. I would like to make some specific proposals to him. He could lower the energy bill. He can reduce the cost of care and rent. He doesn't choose any of that. Mr. Chairman. You will understand: a VVD man who makes beautiful promises but doesn't keep them, we know them by now. But a VVD guy who keeps a SP story on a VVD congress, I don't know that much. So you can imagine that we will start reminding them of these words every day until it is settled.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u15	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u16	Mr President, a very brief response. We have, of course, already announced that next year we will significantly reduce taxation on energy bills for households. This year's income tax has been substantially reduced and continues over the next two years. A reduction in income tax is now foreseen for three years, also approved by the Lower House and the Upper House. And yes, I'd like more. That's what I'm saying. It's very special, isn't it? We are a country that is being ruled in a stable manner and has stable economic growth at the moment. That is an exception in Europe. The next few years seem to continue to be the same. Of course, we hope very much: a decent growth of the economy, slightly lower than at the summit, but really so that unemployment remains low. The main goal we need to have here is to ensure that the very broad group of Dutch people we sometimes call the middle class home, for lack of a better word, that many people, many people in this country, really experience that things are going better and not only because of what the government is doing, but also because those big companies that are so trend-setting take their responsibility. And indeed, I said that I also think that if they do not, the cabinet should look again at the reduction of corporate tax in top rates. That will then represent the VVD in the coalition, because that is not yet a cabinet policy; it is a thought from the VVD that we will then propose in the coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u17	Thank you, Mrs Marijnissen. I shall then give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Many people are in financial difficulties, and that is not only because of employers and low wages, which, of course, have to be raised. This is mainly due to the policy of the gentleman there, Prime Minister Rutte, who spent one charge after another on the Netherlands, from a higher energy bill to higher rents, a higher health insurance premium and, of course, that VAT increase. The messages have never been as expensive in the past ten years as they are now due to the VAT increase of Prime Minister Rutte. And then his Minister for Agriculture says: there can be a few more, those messages are actually far too cheap and there has to be some more. Mr Rutte, at the same time the Netherlands has a surplus of about 10 billion euros, overpaid tax money. Meanwhile, you are giving billions of dollars in development aid in Africa and asylum seekers in the Netherlands. My question to you is: choose those Dutch. Give a purchasing power gain to the Netherlands now. Don't give it to abroad and don't look at the employers, but come with relief yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u19	After Mr Wilders ran like a Zoef de Haas from the Catshuis in 2012, in the midst of a serious crisis, the cabinet and the PvdA continued to pursue this policy of recovery, and the current cabinet continued to do so. We see that at the moment, because we have intervened in our economy, the Netherlands has one of the fastest growing economies in this part of the world, that it also has economic growth in the coming years far above that of neighbouring countries and that our unemployment is now historically low and is, in all expectations, historically low. Imagine, as I say to Mr Wilders, what happens to someone who is unemployed and gets a job and how many people that has happened. Hundreds of thousands, literally hundreds of thousands of people have come to work. There's a record number of jobs in the Netherlands, because we got out of the crisis, after the Wilders ran away because he didn't want to take responsibility for that recovery policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u20	Then Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u21	Mr. Chairman. A good story from the Prime Minister, sincere. Very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u22	Now I'm getting worried.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u23	Yes, and rightly so. Very good words from the Prime Minister. I hope that big business will see that there is now a very large majority here in the Chamber saying: this corporate tax, it is not really certain anymore. The Prime Minister states that wages must rise and that if they do not, business must start to pay. There is a very logical moment for us as politicians to intervene on this, and that is Princess Day. Does the Prime Minister also set a deadline for all these big companies, for them to come forward with a wage offer before Princess Day, and otherwise we will take away the benefit we would give to corporate tax and give it to citizens?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u24	Those companies, Mr Klaver, also knows very well what needs to be done in the near future, and if they do not, I will not hesitate to make such a proposal. But what he wants to do now, namely to say that at a time when we have to talk about it in accordance with the Hague agenda, I do not think it is appropriate. I think it would be wise to put this pressure at the door of these large companies, to lay the responsibility there and not now fall into the reality of our own planning in The Hague. If we want to do so, if we want to intervene, for example, in reducing corporate tax, there are plenty of opportunities to do so. I find it unwise to link that to a certain date here on a parliamentary calendar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u25	Second question, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u26	This is a bit of a retreating movement. First of all, there is a lot of aplomb that the big companies have to make salary increases and that otherwise we will come and get it. I think it's a nice picture, Mark Rutte, who goes like a Robin Hood to those big companies. We set the tax rates once a year. We don't do that halfway through the year. That's what we do with Princess Day and the Tax Plan. This means that there is a natural deadline for these companies to deliver. Let me put it this way. If these companies do not come up with a good wage offer before Princess Day and say 'we increase those wages' and if the Prime Minister does not come up with a proposal, then we ourselves will come up with a proposal to ensure that the reduction in corporation tax does not go on and that the money goes to citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u27	This weekend I also saw the reaction from the VNO and other employers' organisations, who wanted to talk to me about this. I told you, I'm not gonna do that at all. I don't need to talk to a dome about that at all. My objection is precisely that these big entrepreneurs do not appear on television or on the radio and that they no longer tell their story. So we can no longer be proud of those great men and women, as in the 1980s, when people really took part in the social debate. I'm talking to VNO about pensions or the right to dismiss, but we're not talking to VNO about collective bargaining. This must be done by the companies. Those companies, I say to Mr Klaver, know damn well what's wrong. If a top man can apparently explain that his wage rise is sometimes three or four times higher than that of the secretary, while this is a matter now addressed politically, also and precisely by the VVD, the middle class party, then they know damn well what's going on. Then it is important to give these companies a chance to recover. Then I find it unwise to fall back into some kind of The Hague logic of our calendar. I don't think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u28	A new, beautiful term was just used by the Prime Minister: the "home middle class."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u29	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u30	Yeah, you just said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u31	I said homely called the middle class.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u32	But that means that the Wajangers, the pensioners and the new employees at the HEMA, who have to work 30% less, are all excluded from it. We've just had a few taps. I see the Minister of Finance also sitting in box K because we have such a large surplus. When does this cabinet itself draw the wallet? After all, all these other people aren't gonna take advantage of it? You can say 'these companies must do it', but what are you going to do now to ensure that pensioners and the Wajongers will also benefit?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u33	Every day I enter the battleground for all those people in the Netherlands with a very normal salary. That includes the welfare mother who wants to get out of that benefit. There are also those who have worked hard their whole lives and rightly enjoy a good pension. For me, these are the people who hold this country up, who are the backbone of our society. It's also the people who are champion volunteering. It is the people who ultimately get people to join sports associations, political parties, trade unions, so that people take initiatives again. The middle class is the reason why there is still a belief in progress in the Netherlands, as it actually only exists in America in that form; one of the reasons why we are so transatlantic. This belief of progress that the next generation will get it better than the present one, threatens to fail if, after a serious crisis, wage formation is insufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u34	The reason those top men don't go to the talk shows is because they have Prime Minister Rutte here telling their story. That is the man who last insisted that the dividend tax should be abolished. In fact, still, to this day, he considers it an unacceptable risk that we have not done so. Indeed, it is time to force the companies to share their prosperity with the workers again. We will come up with a proposal to include this conditionality in this Spring paper. About the moment you call it in, that timing, we're gonna talk later, but it's important that we all accept that proposal so you didn't give away the gift and never get it back. But my question is this. All those people who were being addressed, all those people who see this... Does the Prime Minister understand why he is the least credible interpreter of this sound, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u35	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u36	...they've heard and seen the opposite all these years?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u37	[[Sentence could not be parsed: Het vorige kabinet kon niet anders dan in een ernstige crisis vergaande lastenverzwaringen door te voeren.]] That's inevitable. That is where Mr Asscher and I have been shoulder-to-shoulder. That is why, I think, this country is coming out of the crisis so strongly. My point of view has always been: I think Mr Asscher shares this with me. If things get better, you want people to benefit from it as well. What the government can do is to invest about third to 40% of the Dutch economy in the public sector such as education, care, safety and roads. We can invest in higher salaries, for example in areas of education where there was too much lag, such as primary education. We can make sure that state finances are put in order. That too is important, so that you have buffers again for a next crisis. At the same time, you can see that the policy of the previous cabinet has made us champion of job growth and the number of people working at all. We have historically low unemployment. We also have economic growth in the coming years, which continues to be about 1.5% by diesel and is therefore well above the Western European average. I think we can both be proud of that. That is what you are achieving, but now it is the question: how does that translate into passing on that prosperity profit, not only through the government, but also through the large companies? If some of these big companies can finance huge stock buy-in programmes and if the top men get two to three times as much increase as the workers on a very normal salary, then I think we can say something about that and we can find something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u38	Secondly, Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u39	That wasn't the answer to my question. What the Prime Minister says about the history of the different periods and the economic crisis is all true, but in the last two years the Dutch have actually only heard the Prime Minister tell one story. That story was: "The profit tax must be reduced, the dividend tax must be abolished. That is of the utmost importance. In fact, we are running an unacceptable risk here if we do not do so."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u40	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u41	I repeat my question. In fact, it is still the first question. Does the Prime Minister understand that the Dutch will not soon believe him on this point? Unless the coalition, the Prime Minister, agrees with the cabinet that we now include that conditionality in the Spring paper, because then it is serious. It is so diametrically opposed to what he was defending earlier. He didn't stand to defend that with others at the time. He mostly did it himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u42	Mr Asscher and I crossed swords about this during, for example, the General Reviews. And yes, they were partly about abolishing the dividend tax. That didn't work out in the end. It wasn't about money going to businesses. Companies didn't get that money. It was intended to ensure that the Netherlands remains attractive for the establishment of headquarters. In the end, however, there was no majority in favour of this and it simply did not go well with the companies that would make use of it. Sometimes things fail. Mr Asscher and I both know that. Not everything you want can work. I have also argued in the General Reviews that the abolition of dividend tax and the reduction of corporation tax coincide with a huge reduction in income tax...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u43	That debate has taken place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u44	... and with investments in education and care, police and roads, and in putting public finances in order. The cabinet has to do everything at once. It's supposed to provide a good locational climate. It has to do something about the incomes of hard-working people by lowering income tax. We do that in three steps, and that goes on. That has already been politically approved. But it must also put public finances in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u45	The Prime Minister presents himself here today as the middle-class man for the people on a normal salary. But the point is that that's not true. Last week's research showed that people with a moral income can get by more and more difficult. In fact, they are living increasingly in poverty. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister once more: become concrete. It's not credible. Last Saturday, at your own party congress, you spoke fine words about the need to raise wages and the fact that the salaries at the top are not good. You can't do that. Of course, that has been said a hundred times here. Everyone's already made that call. So some kind of moral appeal to these companies isn't gonna work. The belief "if it goes well at the top, then people are fine" will not work either. So my question is: what exactly are you going to do? I dare you to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u46	That's what I said on Saturday. The companies know very well who it is and what to do. If they do not, the VVD will propose in the coalition to reduce or not allow the reduction of the top corporate tax rate. It can't get any more concrete. That's what I said on Saturday. I can't be any clearer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u47	Just a brief addition.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u48	Second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u49	But the Prime Minister isn't getting concrete. When are you going to do that? What raises are you going to do that at? What's to be done? You say you're gonna propose that as a coalition partner, but that's not gonna help the people at home right now, is it? People have been hearing for so long "you're going to benefit from economic growth" and "you're going to share in the big profits of companies," but it just doesn't happen. If the Prime Minister, while wearing his VVD coat, does such words as he did last Saturday, then he can't make it to stay so vague here in the Chamber. I really do. I mean it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u50	Thanks to the fact that the economy is growing and unemployment is falling very rapidly, the government is able to invest 6 billion to 8 billion in the public sector during this period. That's what we're doing right now. The cabinet is able to reduce income tax and it is also able to do something about the tax for companies. On balance, it is not a significant reduction, but a shift, which can ultimately also reduce corporate tax. At the same time, it is able to replenish the buffers so that we can take the hit if there is ever another crisis. We hope that this crisis is as far away as possible, but you must always be ready for it. That is why we are putting public finances in order. We all do that at the same time. I would love to do more, for example when it comes to reducing income tax, but it has to be prudent. Now, if you look through your eye hairs at the growth of the economy in the years to come, I hope that those opportunities will come again. At the same time, the government does not do more than 40% of the economy. The rest is done by the companies. There's a terrible amount of work going on in these companies. These very large companies are very leading in the development of the economy and in the development of collective agreements. That's what my speech was about Saturday. In that I stood up for the hardworking Dutchman, including the people who have worked hard and now enjoy their pension well, I say to 50PLUS, and also the people with a benefit who want to get back to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u51	The Prime Minister is almost slipping through this file like an eel. He does say that people should benefit from it, but people don't benefit from it. You promised the Netherlands that people would benefit from economic growth, but they do not. Everything's getting more expensive. The groceries are getting more expensive. Health care is getting more expensive. The VAT has gone up. The rents are about to go up again. For those people, you have to do something. You can say all kinds of nice things about employers at your conference, but do something about it. Why don't you do something for the people? Then it is the first time in your life that you keep a promise and that you don't fool people because you just say "I'm going to abolish your own risk," "I'm going to reverse the VAT increase" or "the energy bill is going down tomorrow." I'll tell you what. Not talking, but down, those burdens!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u52	The cabinet does that. The government reduces income tax on balance by more than the increase in VAT, including the increase in health insurance contributions. The cabinet invests a lot more in matters such as education and care, in roads, police, defense. These are all public sectors that have had a hard time in the crisis, which have been affected. Now that things are going well, it should be invested in again. I'd love to do more. At the same time, putting public finances in order is also crucial, so that if there is ever another crisis, I hope it is far away and preferably not at all, you will be able to cope with it again. The promise, the core promise I made with the Labour Party in 2012 was to make the Netherlands emerge stronger from the crisis. The Netherlands has emerged more strongly from the crisis. It's time to make people feel that, too. The government does a lot and will like to do more, but also companies, especially the large companies, have to make their contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u53	Mr. Azarkan, given the way you walk, are you okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I listened with interest and understood that I should have been at the conference last Saturday to discuss what we could all do to achieve a fair distribution of wage and purchasing power development. I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether he is also prepared to reflect on and come to, for example, a wage measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u55	No. I would not like to intervene in collective bargaining. In the Netherlands, wage formation is a matter for employers and employees. But I do have an opinion on it. If it turns out, when we come out of such a crisis, that certainly those big companies, which are so leading, are not making their contribution, the government has other means to express their views on it. This is not by intervening in wage formation, but by intervening in the burden relief that is provided for large business, as I suggested at my congress and may have to propose in the coalition if wage formation is not improved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u56	Second question, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u57	But then it remains very vague talk, that the Prime Minister shows to the public that he stands for wage development because it is currently a problem for a lot of people, while in practice he does nothing at all. The question is why he's going to intervene now. We've just been asked when he's gonna intervene. The answer was: with a wage growth of half a percent. I believe that the President of De Nederlandsche Bank said three years ago that wage developments are lagging behind. Then the Prime Minister didn't say anything either. It was reported last year. So I don't really understand why this minister is going to do anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u58	I just tried to answer that question. I will try again by saying the following.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u59	Very briefly!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u60	These companies know very well what to do. The top men get on average more than twice as much increase as the usual earning staff. There have even been cases of three, four times as many and much more. At the same time, there is so much money for stock buy-in programmes. If the classic agreement in the Netherlands that prosperity is passed on to its own people when things get better, then those companies know very well what to do. I would say: let's start orienting ourselves, a little bit towards the point of view of the people of Europe, then it doesn't even have to be exactly the same. That would be very neat.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-2.u61	Thank you.
