ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is the proposal for a law of Members Bergkamp, Özütok and Van den Hul declaring that there is grounds for considering a proposal to change the Constitution to include disability and heterosexual or homosexual orientation as a non-discrimination ground (32411). I would like to welcome the initiators. These are, of course, Mrs Bergkamp, Mrs Özütok and Mrs Van den Hul. They are supported in box K by Youri Rijkhoff, policy officer at D66, Mr Jaap van der Heijden, policy officer at the GroenLinks group and Mrs Anjel Punte, policy officer at the PvdA group. And there's another policy officer from the Home Office, who has supported the initiators. His name is Gerard Boon. He's an official of the Ministry of the Interior. I would also like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. He will act as advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u2	Today we are discussing the first term of office. The continuation will be planned as usual in good consultation with the initiators. I shall now give the floor to the first speaker, who has now arrived. That is Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP Group. Sounds chic, doesn't it? Arrived by now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u3	That's right, Mr. Chairman. That's all we're gonna talk about at the NS. Let us move quickly to this debate, the initiative law of D66, the Labour Party and GroenLinks. This deserves compliments, because making a law is always a lot of work. In this case it is a law that was tabled nine years ago by my former colleagues Boris van der Ham, Naima Azough and Mrs Timmer. After all these years, it is even more extraordinary that we are discussing this law today, on 5 December! I ask the proposers why this has lasted no less than nine years. Mr. Chairman. This proposal is sympathetic; no discussion on it. The aim is to supplement Article 1 of the Constitution with the terms "disability" and "heterosexual and homosexual orientation." Article 1 now reads: "All those who are in the Netherlands are treated equally. Discrimination on grounds of religion, belief in life, political orientation, race, gender or on any ground shall not be permitted." The present law explicitly adds that discrimination based on your sexual orientation or disability is not allowed. I fully agree with the message from the proposers. Discrimination is not allowed, not even on these grounds. The question is, what exactly does this law add? Article 1 already prohibits discrimination on any ground. So to what extent is your law symbolic policy? Can the proposers clarify exactly what is changing in a practical sense? Does this have concrete consequences for those involved? I would like to hear it so that my group can make a proper assessment at the end of this debate. When I read the text of the law, I thought: there is another solution. You can also delete all the categories already mentioned. Then you have the core, namely: discrimination is not allowed on any basis whatsoever. This is also in line with the sober nature of our Constitution. Do the proposers share that view? A great advantage of this solution is also that the list of categories does not become infinitely long. Because if we're gonna expand, we're gonna miss a few things. For example, how about discrimination on grounds of nationality or civil status? These are mentioned in the General Law on Equal Treatment. And how about age discrimination? Also a very persistent problem, but not mentioned in Article 1, nor in the present law. There is, however, an amendment tabled by Mr Krol, in part No. 11. What do the authors think of that amendment? Do they think that the argument of their law applies precisely to Mr Krol's amendment? And then there's discrimination on the grounds of origin. For example, look at regional discrimination, the so-called Randstadial arrogance towards people from Friesland or Limburg, or not to forget Brabant. How do the proposers respond to these groups? I can see the Minister laughing, perhaps out of recognition. But he can always explain that later. How do the proposers look at the argument that mentioning all kinds of categories can give rise to the suggestion that there is a ranking, so that the former is more important than the latter? I'd like a response. I note that we now have at least three laws that deal with discrimination, the Constitution, the General Law on Equal Treatment and the Code of Criminal Law. All three formulate the prohibition of discrimination in their own way. For example, the General Law on Equal Treatment refers to nationality or civil status, whereas the Constitution does not. How do the proposers view these differences? Shouldn't you be streamlining this? Could you do that by saying in all laws that discrimination is prohibited, on whatever grounds? I'd like a response. I also ask for a response to Bas de Gaay Fortman's article in Trouw, dated 8 August. He calls the current Article 1 a strong article that you should not change but celebrate. Adaptation is unnecessary and counterproductive. In his response, former chamber member Coos Huijsen also acknowledges that it would be logical to delete all categories from Article 1. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. During the debate on the General Equal Treatment Act in July 2018, my motion 34650-11 was adopted to examine whether the words "hetero- or homosexual orientation" can be changed to "sexual orientation." The Minister's conclusion was that it was desirable to amend the General Law on Equal Treatment on this point. I ask the Minister when this change will come. The authors also agreed with my motion and therefore sent a letter of amendment on 2 August. This is therefore an amendment to the Constitution. I thank the authors for that adjustment and await their answers to my questions with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mr. Jasper van Dijk. I now give the floor to Mr Renkema on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u5	Thank you, Mr President. I'll start with Thomas Jefferson, one day from the other side of the ocean. He was perhaps the spiritual father of the United States, at least of the fundamental rights enshrined in the United States. He had a decisive influence on the Constitution and the Declaration of Independence, inspired in particular by the enlightenment and the French Revolution. That led to that very well-known phrase "We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal." And then there are some of these self-evident truths.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u6	And the translation is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u7	This means that these truths, these realities, are self-evident: everyone is created equal. It's a time frame, because he was still assuming a creator and he's talking about "men," not people. He was talking about civilians at the time. "Self-evident" is a beautiful word. Indeed, it should be obvious that everyone is equal, whether you are male, female, straight, gay, religious or non-religious. It is forbidden to discriminate against people on the basis of their characteristics. We are discussing a very special initiative proposal today. It's always a special moment when MPs are co-legislators. We do indeed have the power to submit an initiative law, but in this case it is, as far as I am concerned, quite special, because it is an amendment to our Constitution. That is why it is worth a compliment in advance that the three Members of Parliament, together with the supporters, have put a lot of work into this. On behalf of our group, I would also like to wish them every success in the further examination of the initiative proposal. Then there is the content of the proposal for an initiative. The initiators propose to adapt the important Article 1 of our Constitution, the article that contains the principle of equality and protects all who are in our country from exclusion and discrimination. You will not be surprised that we, as a group, are positive about this bill. In particular, I will state in my speech why we think it is a good proposal. When we talk about tackling discrimination in this Chamber, we will all agree that discrimination is unacceptable and does not belong in our society. This is also apparent from the written round on the initiative proposal. But when we look at day-to-day practice in our society, we see that a lot of people don't feel entirely part of it because they feel discriminated against. As a government, and therefore as a constitution, we must therefore try to combat discrimination through legislation as much as possible, but also through policies. Today we are discussing the most important standard in our legal system, namely the Constitution and specifically the prohibition of discrimination. The current text of Article 1 lists a number of specific grounds and also a general type of residual category. In addition to discrimination based on religion, belief, political orientation, race and gender, the initiators propose to add discrimination based on disability and sexual orientation. We think that is a good explicability of the article. The draft law is not intended to add two new grounds to the article of the Constitution, but it is intended to explicitly name them because these two non-discrimination grounds have gained increasing attention in recent years since the current form of Article 1 was introduced. Also in the early 1980s, this discussion had already taken place, both on sexual orientation and on disability. At that time, also in the light of the spirit of the era of the early 1980s, it was chosen not to explicitly include these grounds in the Constitution. In the opinion of our group, the objections raised at the time are no longer the same. Society has changed and, as far as we are concerned, these objections are therefore no longer present. Mr. Chairman. The grounds already mentioned in the Constitution, as the initiators also write, share the view that people with these characteristics may to some extent have been victims of social exclusion. And that has always been due to a history of stereotyping, prejudice and stigmatisation. As far as we are concerned, it always affects very important universal values of human dignity, autonomy and integrity. That is why the constitutionalist chose to refer specifically to the grounds in Article 1. We believe that inclusion of these specific grounds can be seen as confirmation of core values that we consider important in Dutch society, and also of the emancipation of these groups. The Constitution is a document with many social values and authority. How we deal with each other in society has been codified in the Constitution. Precisely because people in practice still experience discrimination on grounds of disability and sexual orientation very often, my group is convinced that it is a good thing to clarify this in Article 1. I have two more questions for the initiators and also for the Minister. The first question is whether the initiators and the Minister can comment on the non-discrimination ground sex currently referred to in Article 1. Can this also include discrimination based on gender characteristics, gender identity and gender expression? I would also like to ask the initiators to explain in their time limits why age is not explicitly included as a non-discrimination ground. I also refer to the 50PLUS amendment. In the foregoing, I have always mentioned the non-discrimination ground of sexual orientation. In the original bill, it has been remembered for a while: that was a long time ago "hetero- or homosexual orientation." That was changed by letter of amendment. This was also the result of a motion by Mr Van Dijk and investigations commissioned by the Minister for the Interior. In the award of these investigations, the best term for Article 1 was explicitly requested. The conclusion is that "sexual orientation" is a more comprehensive term. We welcome this adaptation because it is more inclusive, but it is also a term that is consistent with international terminology. On this point, I have another question for the Minister. In addition to this bill and the general law on equal treatment, are there any other areas in the legislation where this terminology may also need to be adapted? I look forward to the reaction of the initiators and the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u8	I think we are in complete agreement on the intention of the proposers. Discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation or disability is out of the question. But what does Mr Renkema think of my questions to the authors? Does this list have to be renewed over and over again? For you said it yourself: age is not mentioned now, origin is not mentioned and nationality and civil status are not mentioned, whereas these forms of discrimination are also wrong. How do you look at those questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u9	I think it's good to be sober in a Constitution. I think you should not add a lot of things to a Constitution all the time. It is not for nothing that since 1983 nothing has changed about this article, so we do not just do that. You have to be very careful about that. However, it is very important for us to realise that when we talked about disability at the time, it was said that you should treat people differently because they are different, and that we have now started to think very differently about it. The same applies to sexual orientation. That was when Article 1 was formulated in 1983 apparently still socially taboo, or a subject that was considered differently. That is no longer the case, yet we see discrimination on the basis of these two grounds. That is why we believe that this change of law is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u10	I understand that reasoning and we will wait for the vote, but of course the question is: what if the law is adopted and Mr Krol's amendment is not? Thus, age discrimination would be excluded, and it would be strange enough for this addition to give you some form of discrimination, because people who are discriminated against on the grounds of age are not included. How does GroenLinks view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u11	That is the question I expected from 50PLUS, to be honest. I think it's a very interesting idea to add age as well. I think that's an interesting thought. I would very much like a response from the initiators and also from the Minister on this point. In addition, a constitutional change is fundamental. In this case, therefore, an opinion from the Council of State would also be appropriate, but I await the response and then the debate we are going to have on this before I can say definitively how GroenLinks stands in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u12	No, we're not here to label thoughts as interesting, we're not here to hide behind the Council of State and we're not here to hide behind the three proposers. We're here to have an opinion. GroenLinks is a supporter of listing all categories. Well, then you open your own trap, because then, of course, everyone's gonna say: why not that category and that category is? Why should Henk Krol be discriminated against on account of his age and not on account of his disability? Why don't you explain that to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u13	Interestingly, another person considering moving to 50PLUS, I notice. Well, I've already responded to that. I think the Constitution should be sober, so adding a lot of categories is not what GroenLinks wants. That is not what we are proposing either. The two categories mentioned in this initiative proposal have received our attention through social developments. That is why we have drafted this initiative proposal. I have said that age can be very interesting. Moreover, in a number of laws, such as discrimination in the labour market, there is also a great deal of discrimination. I'd like to wait for that reaction. So I can't commit much more to you right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u14	Huh? It is becoming more difficult and difficult, because now Mr Renkema says that these groups, which are now mentioned in this legislative initiative proposal, have received social attention. That seems to be a criterion for adding these two groups and not adding the group 50-plussers. So the GroenLinks criterion is not justice, but social attention that one manages to organize in society. That's as crooked as a hoop, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u15	That's what we call emancipation. In 1983 the debate on disabled people and homosexuals took place and the legislator said in the Constitution that we are not going to do so explicitly. That says something about the spirit of the time of the early eighties. I think so, and I wholeheartedly support the views of 50PLUS; look at this: age, and in particular age discrimination, is something that we are getting better and better on the retina in recent years. But a constitutional change is fundamental, so I am not going to speak explicitly today about whether we are going to vote for or against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u16	But then GroenLinks sees the Constitution as a sort of disposable article, because it is now relying on the spirit of the time of 1983. Firstly, the debate on the Constitution was much earlier, namely at the time of the Den Uyl cabinet, but Mr Renkema starts quoting Thomas Jefferson. So he indicates that a Constitution must have some kind of eternity value, otherwise you don't make a Constitution. And now he says, "Yes, we base ourselves on the spirit of time." In 1983 disabled people apparently fell under the age group but 50-plussers did not. What is the importance of a Constitution when you say that it must constantly adapt to the spirit of the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u17	That's the opposite of what I'm saying. I don't think you should quickly change the Constitution. We do not do that in this house either, because the Constitution is not often amended. It is quite unique that we are doing this through an own-initiative proposal. I can very well imagine that the element of age I do not think that was very much on the agenda in the eighties and nineties has now become more relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u18	Thank you, Mr Renkema. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u19	Mr. Chairman. Following the adoption of the women's quota this week, it feels a bit like a state-law party to stand here today on this initiative legislative proposal on the adaptation of Article 1 of the Constitution. I would therefore like to thank the initiators very much for this initiative and congratulate them on having taken the trouble to pick up this glove. You will not be surprised that my group is positive about this constitutional change. With the amendment of the Constitution, the proposers want to add the following grounds: sexual orientation and disability. My colleague Renkema van GroenLinks said it very nicely: in 1983 there was actually a lot of thought about whether it would not be wise to add these two grounds. Because of the spirit of time that may not have happened then, but we are now more than twenty years away, so I think it is good that we are going to do so at the moment. It is a strong signal, it confirms the explicit value of the Constitution, it confirms that we want to be very precise, and it has a legal added value, as the Committee on Legal Protection has also indicated. It is also no surprise that the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau has indicated that it is wise to do so. So there are many reasons why the time is right. I therefore hope that this initiative can reach a majority. At the same time, I have to ask some questions, because that is my role. We see that not only homosexuals, lesbians and bisexuals are victims of discrimination, but also transgender persons and intersex persons. Also protects sex discrimination from Article 1 of the Constitution against discrimination based on gender characteristics, gender identity and gender expression, I want to know from the proposers. A second question I have concerns discrimination against Ibti and people with disabilities. It's persistent. That's what we saw today. The UN does not say that we are doing too little for nothing. We also see it in recent examples of discrimination in something as simple as finding a home. That is why I have a question for the Minister. Can he indicate what additional measures are being taken to combat them actively? What does the government itself do when it comes to inclusive employership? Because we can lay down a lot of things in the Constitution, but if we do not make a supplementary policy of our own, prevent the government itself from discrimination on an institutional level and the exclusion is not actively combated, then this bill will not win us anything. That is, of course, the intention. A final question concerns positive discrimination, i.e. preferred policy. Not everyone is in favour of that, we are. It is not for nothing that the women's quota is now being proposed. But when I look at the legislative proposal and the labour market opportunities of people with disabilities, I wonder if this is still possible on the basis of this constitutional change. Mr President, I will conclude. I am positive and I look forward to hearing the answers from the proposers, whom I wish very much success in the further follow-up to this bill. I'm looking forward to that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Molen, on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u21	Mr. Chairman. A number of interesting questions have already been asked by my colleagues, so I am looking forward to the first term on the part of the initiators, whom I, of course, also know to be tradition, but traditions are very much grateful for the work they have put into preparing this bill. Mr. Chairman. Already in 2001, the CDA supported a then initiative of the Christian Union to add disability to the Constitution as a non-discrimination ground. At the time, the D66 Group voted on that proposal in a split vote. In any case, I am pleased to see a petitioner of D66 on this point, who at least considers it important that disability should now be added to the Constitution. In 2012, we had the last round in the discussion of this proposal. At that time, my colleague Mrs Van Toorenburg, on behalf of the CDA Group, did ask a number of critical questions, which actually come back to me in the contributions I have heard from several colleagues. This is particularly in the direction of the austerity of our Constitution. The statement made by the CDA Group at the time was that the Constitution is not an instrument for achieving anything in society when it comes to listing, but it should follow on from a kind of broad social acceptance that is already there and which the Constitution could then be a translation of. I would very much like to have a reflection on this point from the authors in the first term, because I think that is one of the arguments for adding a number of things to the Constitution. In this respect, it is important that we use this article to express the equivalence of people in the Netherlands. I heard Mr Renkema say something about that. He referred to Thomas Jefferson, if I've listened to him correctly. That's what he said about Jefferson saying that the Americans are talking about "endowed by their Creator inalienable truth." Mr Renkema called it a time frame called "Creator." I would like to say from the CDA that this is a timeless image: there is indeed a Creator who has put in our people an (equal) dignity that is also reflected in Article 1 of the Constitution, even though we say in the Dutch context that people are equal before the law. In any case, I should like to make that point in that context. The CDA Group therefore notes that support for this proposal is part of our electoral programme and that there is indeed broad social acceptance that discrimination on grounds of disability and sexual orientation should not have a place in society. That is the reason why it is wise to bring fundamental rights up to date even after 1983, as my colleague Mr Renkema said. It follows from our vote in 2001 that I also want to place the emphasis on people with disabilities. Recently, we read news in the press that we are not doing enough in the Netherlands in this area. So I would like to ask the authors, in their first term, to comment on the point of criticism that you can write it down in the Constitution, but we are not there yet. Do we perhaps not expect too much of each other that, if we put it in the Constitution, we will improve the actual situation for people? I would very much like to hear a reflection from the proposers on this point. I myself, on behalf of the CDA, indicated in the course of another initiative on the Equal Treatment Act, which I believe is about the same applicants, that the fight against discrimination also stems from the way you look at people. This is a matter of human dignity, and it is of benefit to all of us. We always emphasise this type of change from the point of view of the person discriminated against, but from a Christian-democratic perspective, it is also a question of failing ourselves as a society with discrimination. We are all losing out at the moment that groups in society are being pushed to the edge of society. Once again, I am referring in particular to people with disabilities, who are very often referred to by people as people with disabilities, whereas it is precisely a restriction for Dutch society if we do not give these people a full place in Dutch society.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u22	Mr Van der Molen says very strongly............................................................................................................................................................................... In doing so, he places the emphasis twice on the group of people with disabilities. I would also like Mr Van der Molen to reflect on the same emancipation of, in this case, people with a very diverse sexual orientation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u23	I think you yourself said something about this in your speech. That would also apply, for example, to the amendment tabled by Mr Krol. The Constitution expresses something that is currently seen as a major social handicap. In this context, this means that certain groups are discriminated against. I think you were right. During that period there were whole discussions about race, for example about mixed marriages and the like. That was an expression of what lived then. The expression which Mr Krol's amendment seeks to give to age discrimination, for example, is also an expression of the fact that, in the composition of the Dutch population, it becomes a more pregnant part when there are more and more people of advanced age, so to speak. I would like to mention the point made by Mr Van Dijk. We can, of course, create an endless line of points that express a certain recognition of groups in society. I would also like to respond to the amendment that is being tabled. As things are added to it every time I have already indicated that I think sexual orientation and disability are good additions and we continue to do so endlessly, I think we will get to the variant that Mr Van Dijk mentions. Let us simply fall back on the variant of non-discrimination on any ground. I think there is a limit to how many Christmas balls you can hang in the same Christmas tree, just to say disrespectfully in the context of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u24	This answer broadens it, quite frankly, while I wanted to make it more concrete. My question was actually very explicit. The CDA now mentions people with disabilities twice with emphasis. If we look back on the past 20, 30 or 40 years, how do the Christian Democrats now look at the emancipation of people with a different sexual orientation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u25	We look forward to that. That is why we can support that part. This is also reflected in voting behaviour, for example when it comes to the adoption of children by couples of equal sex or otherwise. I think that's an expression of broad acceptance. I note, however, that this is discrimination on all grounds. Also people who would have different views about the desirability of life forms or could otherwise be united in the view that we do not want these people to be pushed to the edges of society.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u26	The CDA uses the metaphor that new balls are always being hung in the Christmas tree, but then does a lot of work by wanting to add new categories. I do not know whether Mr Van der Molen has taken note of the discussion of this amendment of the 1976 Constitution. Then Piet van der Sanden, member of the Catholic People's Party, said a party that is still missed every day as far as I am concerned: just limit it to "everyone is equal before the law." But we've been set up to name categories. Then everyone arrives with a new category. Everyone says "my category is not mentioned" and is absolutely right about that, but this is how new Christmas balls come into the Christmas tree. Why doesn't the CDA just say: look at 1976, that must be our position?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u27	We live in 2019 and no longer in 1976. I'd like to put that first. But in 1976 the same argument applied as now, and that also applies to us: the Constitution must apply a degree of austerity. That is exactly why I referred to our support at the time for the Christian Union's initiative to include disability as a non-discrimination ground. That is therefore consistent. It would be crazy to step away from that now. 2001 is a little bit closer than 1976. But as far as we're concerned, that's over. And that also applies to what Mr Van Dijk has talked about. At some point you can say to each other that everyone can feel included, if the degree of recognition plays a role here, in a rather sober sense in the Constitution. However, I would like to point out that I can understand these two additions very well and that we have also submitted them to our electorate. Perhaps that was also a reason to vote for the CDA. It would be crazy to be doing something else in Parliament right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u28	Thank you, Mr. Van der Molen. Right? Oh, no, you weren't done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u29	Well, I think the point is made enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u30	For the sake of clarity, do I understand from this that the CDA is inclined to support the bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u31	That was just my last paragraph. Yes, I had already indicated that I am positive about the principle of the constitutional change, so it is also reasonable that we should vote in this way. But, of course, the first deadline with the proposers is also important. Look, if they're gonna give some really crazy answers... But I'm not assuming that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u32	Thank you, Mr. Van der Molen. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP. What year are you going to quote, Mr. Bishop?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u33	Mr. Chairman. Let me start by saying that a colleague who, when I was still teaching, noticed that I was ill last year was also playing that and on 5 December I was sick and said to his other colleagues: see, Bishop is working black. That has become a very loaded joke by now, but I only share it so that I have aired my mind. Mr President, thank you for the floor. Let me begin by congratulating the initiators on their commitment and unwavering zeal to put another initiative proposal on the table. That deserves to be appreciated. And I'm going to talk to you all about the content now. Mr. Chairman. How far do you have to go with the definition of all kinds of specialities of the article on equal treatment in the Constitution? That is the key question for us in the discussion of this bill. The proposers choose to include disability and sexual orientation as a non-discrimination ground. What does that mean in concrete terms? The list of grounds in Article 1 of the Constitution will then be extended to include two additional grounds, but it does not make it clear whether the list is complete and whether we may have to add other grounds in the long term. In fact, anyone who reads the General Law on equal treatment sees that it also refers to nationality and civil status. Mr Van Dijk has already pointed this out. We also know the Equal Treatment Act based on age in work. Article 21 of the Charter of the European Union states that discrimination based on "colour, ethnic or social origin, genetic characteristics, language, [...] belonging to a national minority, property or birth' should not be a grounds for discrimination. If you let these kinds of rows get through to you, you realize that in the future there will be a lot of opportunities for expanding that provision. We're seriously wondering if that's what you want. The current Constitution already states the well-known formula: "or on any ground." Mr Van Dijk also referred to this formula. This includes all these situations. Anyone who makes the choice for two additional grounds and does not explain why other generally accepted grounds are not included makes a choice. It is precisely after about 36 years of changing the well-known wording that it appears to be a further confirmation of the fact that these grounds are apparently less important. We cannot hide behind the argument that it has become more important in society. That has a degree of arbitrariness in it. It's about justice and justice. The question is how best to give it shape and words. Mr. Chairman. Let me be honest with you: the SGP feels very strongly about choosing a general wording rather than a collage of more or less arbitrary grounds if you are going to amend this article of the Constitution. This would lead to the wording that discrimination is prohibited on any ground. That's a little in line with what the SP fraction suggested. Can the proposers explain why they did not choose to do so? We have an amendment in preparation on this point and hope to submit it in good time. If you choose to add these two grounds, it raises questions of interpretation. I think that we should take a serious look at this, because it is a constitutional provision. First of all, there are questions of interpretation regarding sexual orientation. The research reports that have been published on this term refer to different forms of over-inclusion, with certain issues falling under the constitutional heading that would not belong to it. In concrete terms, we then encounter examples such as pedosexuality and zoophilia, which, according to the current social standard, do not fit with constitutional protection. In the meantime, however, a general provision applies to such groups. Is our impression that the proposers do not intend to do so, but do not provide a solution to this problem in their legislative proposal? In the field of basic disability, there is a very different discussion. The SGP was genuinely pleased when we found in the documents that the proposers had an eye for discriminatory legislation in this area. He's still here. In response to the opinion of the Advisory Section of the Council of State, it states that "in our present society there are still laws and regulations which, on these grounds, constitute unjustified unequal treatment." In response to our questions, the proposers no longer know what rules that would be. But look at, for example, the Embryowet and the possibilities of prenatal screening for disability. Do such rules fit with today's society? The answer to our questions was not satisfactory. "This bill has no relevance to the issue of prenatal selection." Yeah, you could say that, but it's inherent to it. Now suppose we could select on the basis of man or woman. Surely the world would be too small if doctors were to cooperate in eliminating male or female fetuses? And rightly so. Then, suddenly, we would value equal treatment before birth, and rightly so. That is why we do not cooperate in the Netherlands. Or suppose it would be possible to select by sexual preference. Even then, the country would be too small. We don't want discrimination based on sexual preference, not even before birth. In the case of disability, the thesis is that we do not find the selection for birth under the law. Mr. Chairman. This can't be happening. This is not careful legislation. Honestly, the word "short-sighted" kind of dawned on me. I withdraw that word immediately, but that indicates how sensitive this point is, purely from the point of view of legislation and constitutional and constitutional principles. The applicants rightly state that all grounds deserve the same degree of hardness and protection. The SGP believes that those who take the ground "disability" seriously should also be prepared to adapt legislation and regulations that make it possible to select on the basis of disability, as is the case now and for which I have given an example. Otherwise, this Constitutional proposal cannot be taken seriously. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. In conclusion, I would like to say that the proposal is not sufficiently substantiated by state law and that it is more a form of symbolic policy. I understand that this makes certain groups of people even more visible. That can of course be a good starting point, but until now the authors have not convinced the SGP of the reasonableness of this direction of thought compared with a more general constitutional formulation that could be developed in other organic legislation. For now, that last route seems to be a better one than this one. I hope that I have also made clear which pitfalls, foot-angels, clamps, lions and bears are on the way to this legislative initiative. That does not affect the appreciation I have for the effort. But the contents? I'd say he could do better. We are, by the way, willing to cooperate in this. Hence our amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u34	That is precisely what my question is about. The SGP announces an amendment to this. I have not yet seen that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u35	You will.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u36	You will. If I understand correctly, the SGP actually opts for further austerity of the Constitution. At present, the Constitution sets out as specific grounds for non-discrimination in the Netherlands: religion, belief, political orientation, gender and race. Does the SGP intend to remove all these specific grounds from the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u37	It would then become a phrase if "discrimination on any ground is prohibited', point. In addition, of course, you have a number of fundamental rights, such as freedom of religion, freedom of belief and so on. They are enshrined as fundamental rights. Therefore, the fundamental rights that we consider important enough to specify are mentioned in a separate article. Therefore, in organic legislation, legislation resulting from and building on the Constitution, you can specify. This also makes it easier to move with social changes. So it has great advantages.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u38	I think that the SGP understands that I would be very sorry if these specific grounds were deleted. I do have one more question about it. People may feel discriminated against for all kinds of reasons. On the basis of a very general statement in the Constitution, someone with blond hair or red hair could say: I am discriminated against. It's not for nothing that these are there. So how does the SGP view the concept of "codification" as one of the functions of the Constitution as a definition of what we find with each other in society?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u39	The Constitution lays down the basic principles of law. A fundamental principle of law is that there is no discrimination in the Netherlands. Firstly, it has a vertical effect, from government to nationals, but to some extent we want to develop it in a horizontal sense. Once you have established the fundamental principle, you look from there at what is needed to anchor it in legislation and regulation in such a way that people have the guarantees that they will not be discriminated against. That could be more or less time-bound and place-bound. That is why you need to work with this in legislation. This prevents you from having to go back and forth to adapting the fundamental rules of law. They must be formulated as timelessly as possible and as clearly as possible. On that basis, you then formulate laws and regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u40	Thank you, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u41	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u42	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Martin Bosma on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u43	Believe it or not, Chairman, but when I put on my shoe this morning, there was a note in there. Let me read it to you. "The St. St. St. St. St. St. St. St. St. St. St. St. St. St. St. St. St. St. St. St. St. St. St. St. St. St. St. Because an own-initiative proposal always deserves a big plume. That MPs do that. Worth a big kiss. The proposers deserve it, because we are co-legislators according to the Constitution. However, the question is who should take credit for it. It could look like... that these three ladies do the dirty work, But that would mean that we're conning history. Whoever's familiar with the past, Knows that this bill is almost ten years old. As a House of Representatives, we're always up to date. But sometimes we take a decade. This company without gentlemen Knows: it is showing off other people's feathers. They left us ten years in suspense. Was that the MPs or their crew? You see, I'll get my gram. But I do so on behalf of Boris van der Ham." Boris van der Ham is one of the original writers. It's been noted. Mr President, on a point of order. The 1983 new Constitution breathes the spirit of the most left-wing cabinet ever, the Den Uyl cabinet. It is a reflection of the ideals of May 1968. Article 1 in its present form is thanks to the CPN, a party that sought to destroy our national sovereignty and destroy all our freedoms. An amendment by Marcus Bakker led to the current form of Article 1, in particular the slogan: on any ground. Marcus Bakker was a pure Stalinist, who stood up for Russian intervention in Hungary in 1956 and Poland. He stood in that debate against Piet van der Sanden of the KVP. He said: let's keep it simple and just put it in the Constitution that everyone is equal before the law. But thanks to Marcus Bakker we were all going to add categories. We didn't stop doing that. Today we are happy to continue there more. There's no end to that. When Pim Fortuyn proposed to abolish Article 1 in 2002, D66 leader Thom de Graaf became completely wild. The Count started screaming and screaming about Anne Frank. For him, Article 1 was the foundation of the rule of law. What a monkey. It is strange that the people for whom Article 1 is sacred stand at the front with its disprovement. If everyone is to be treated equally, how can you commit to a female quota or an immigrant quota? After all, that discriminates, no matter how you turn it or turn it. Roger van Boxtel of D66 once said: quotas are for fish. So now we have to establish that D66 considers women to be fish. This seems to me to be a collective act, which is punishable by Article 1 of the Constitution and Article 137c of the Criminal Code. Men are therefore excluded, Article 1 or not. Not the contents of your head, but the contents of your underwear. In practice, we already see where that quota for women leads. In Amsterdam and The Hague it was not the best candidate to become mayor, but the best woman. We see how that turned out. D66 Minister Van Engelshoven believes that staff in toy stores should not ask: is it for a boy or for a girl? Everyone has to play with dolls. The Dutch Railways, where there is also a D66 driver behind the wheel, no longer says "dear ladies and gentlemen," but "dear travelers." Everything has to be gender-neutral. But sex suddenly plays a major role when it comes to dragging in well-paid jobs in business. If a university announces that it will no longer accept men, Article 1 will not prevent it. Minister Van Engelshoven is very enthusiastic. And then Anne Frank won't be called in. GroenLinks wants to abolish sex registration in civil status in his election programme. After all, there is no such thing as Genders. GroenLinks, however, wants a female quota. Then, all of a sudden, genders do exist again. In the light of Article 1, it is quite strange that these three parties openly advocate racial policy. D66 states in the budget handling of the Interior that too many white people work in the government. The number of whites should be reduced. So people have to be judged by their skin color. D66 wants a slavery museum in Amsterdam, built on racial preferences. The slavery by Muslims of white Europeans, including thousands and thousands of Dutch, should remain unnamed. A D66 alderman tells us that the museum needs to be built from the point of view of black. Blacks therefore have a certain opinion that is related to their skin colour, one considers. That is strange, because many left-wing people always call out that race is a social construction. It does not exist, therefore, but in the context of the discrimination, which they call positive, it does suddenly exist again. Let's be honest: diversity is just a good word for anti-white racism. The Labour Party openly uses the word "disknowledge." Too many white people. A PvdA alderman says: I walk here in the city hall of The Hague, a beautiful white building, but unfortunately this applies not only to the outside, but also to the inside. The leader of this party here in The Hague notes that there are too many white people working in the city halls. Even now, nothing is heard of Article 1 or of Anne Frank. In Amsterdam, these three parties finance the Black Achievement Month. People are selected for their skin color, after which they are exhibited on a stage. Mrs Özütok reports on this on Twitter. The NPO, led by a D66'er, counts immigrants, because apparently you can recognize them by their appearance. Broadcasters must show sufficient non-whites. PowNed calls that "the nigger because he has to." Artists must sign loyalty declarations, which state that they will respect diversity and strive for fewer whites. 75 years of freedom is celebrated with a cozy round of racism. The Dutch are being discriminated against in their own country. Muslims are allowed to celebrate their Ramadan and massacres. Their parties are always fine. Our party, Black Piet, must be destroyed by government. In Amsterdam, the saint should not even have the Christian cross on his miter anymore, because that hurts Muslims. It was demolished by then Alderman Asscher. Islamic symbols, on the other hand, are all fine. See the cat cry that now sounds from the mosques, or their headscarves. They're never hurtful. The Dutch are discriminated against, Article 1 or not. They don't get the homes, asylum seekers do. In many places there is discrimination. In the police, immigrants are openly promoted, even if they do not meet the conditions that apply to native Dutch people. The police are doing ethnic profiling of their own staff well to understand. It's called diversity. D66 even wants an immigrant quota for politicians. Now that women are fish, why not immigrants? Strange: if PvdA's Marcouch says he doesn't want PVVs in the police force, the good man can move on to the mayorship. That his opinion is contrary to Article 1 of the Constitution....... no discrimination on the grounds of political orientation...................................................................................................... Nor does Article 1 of the Constitution come from a judge who says that PVVs should not become judges. PVVs are often fired or not hired, for example as teachers. And often it's D66s who do that. What do the proposers think of that? My group leader is threatening to be convicted because he said something about criminal Moroccans: do you want more or less? According to the judge, Moroccans are now a race. Do the three parties who are so enthusiastic about Article 1 of the Constitution, which is, after all, explicitly called race, agree with that? And how do they feel about the notion of race being stretched out like this? What I also find strange is that these three parties are in the front row screaming for a state of emergency. They do so in Amsterdam, their home base, where they have already declared the climate emergency, in Brussels, also with the climate emergency situation, and they demand this here in the Lower House, where the Labour Party, GroenLinks and D66 voted on Tuesday for an animal motion to announce the state of emergency. State of emergency? What's that? Well, that's that the Constitution and Parliament are being put out of operation. There is no climate crisis - the climate always changes - but the left use that non-existent crisis to abolish Parliament and the Constitution. At the Hannie Schaftlecture, Minister Al-Qaq-Kaag of D66 pushed my party into the corner of national socialism. But I note that it was the National Socialists who declared the state of emergency in 1933. Kaag's party, D66, wants that state of emergency and my party is fighting it. In 1933, the national socialists in Germany took the first steps to ensure that organisations reflected the population. The Nazis also committed positive discrimination. So many percent Jews of the population, so many percent students and later also positions in education and government. It was called "das Gesetz gegen die Überfüllung deutscher Schule und Hochschule" of April 1933. Can I hear from the esteemed authors why they are so craving the state of emergency and at the same time want to change a constitutional article? If you want to abolish the Constitution, why do you want to change it? To the Stalinist Marcus Bakker we owe the cry "on whatever ground." That means something like: et cetera, et cetera. It's actually already locked everything in. So you don't have to mention everything explicitly. It was also mentioned in the parliamentary debate in 1976, at the time of the Den Uyl cabinet. Then why would you add anything to it? Why are these three parties suddenly so concerned with the fate of homosexuals? Last week, a D66 MEP was very angry because a party in Eastern Europe seems to have said something about homo-free zones. Oh, she was so outraged! But I thought: we also have homo-free zones in the Netherlands. We call them Islamic neighborhoods. Those zones are getting bigger and bigger. A realtor warns gay people openly: don't live in the neighborhood or the neighborhood, because if you're gay you're in danger. Anyone recognizable as a homosexual walks around the Netherlands, plays with his life or at least with his front teeth. Allah's supporters are always willing to take corrective action. And who let them in? These three parties, who are now posing as the great friends of homosexual Netherlands. Ask the proposers: what good is an entry in the Constitution if you have to fear being beaten up in the streets by people who have been imported by D66, GroenLinks and the Labour Party? Do the proposers know Article 137c of the Criminal Code? It says: "He who, in public, verbally or in writing or image, intentionally insults a group of people for their race, religion or belief, heterosexual or homosexual orientation or physical, mental or intellectual disability, is punished..." It is already in place, just as the ECHR, the EU Treaty and the General Law already offer many guarantees of equal treatment. Why do they come up with this and why after ten years of silence? Do they just want to score with a target group? Is it a piece of populism? The election's coming up. Do you want to get a white foot? Mr. Chairman. My party is traditionally opposed to Article 1 of the Constitution, because we want to treat unequal cases unequally. Article 1 is a very strange article anyway. It speaks of discrimination, but it is clear, for example, in Mr Bovend'Eert's booklet that there is no definition of discrimination. Discrimination is also explained in the sphere of freedom of expression. If you say "I think that and that," it's seen by judges as discrimination. That's bullshit, because that limits freedom of expression. Article 1 has had a strange side effect. Femke Halsema rightly states that Article 1 is not intended at all to regulate the movement of opinions between citizens. The term "discrimination" is also interpreted as having a certain opinion. Politicologist Meindert Fennema rightly states that discrimination does not mean that you cannot say anything unkind. Can the proposers reflect on this horizontal explanation of the law? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That was my term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u44	Well, if I understand correctly, the PVV says that we can get rid of Article 1 and that discrimination does not actually exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u45	No, I'm not saying that. Don't put words in my mouth.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u46	In any case, it is debatable what discrimination is. It is not a clear concept, let me put it this way. If the concept is not unambiguous, how can Mr Bosma say that PVVs are discriminated against?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u47	Practice simply teaches that a lot of PVV people are fired, for example in education, because they become a PVV worker. My esteemed colleague Alexander Kops has given an example of this. He just stood in front of the classroom and was a very popular teacher, but when he came out as a PVV'er he could immediately pack his things. Many PVVs have been allowed to experience that they are being dismissed for their political beliefs. That is the reality for today's PVVs. This is a violation of democracy and of freedom of expression. It would be nice if GroenLinks, the former Communist Party of the Netherlands, the RaRa party, the Duyvendak party, would also worry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u48	I find it interesting in itself to see the case law of all PVV's who have been dismissed as teachers or police officers because of their membership of the PVV. But would it not be very good for that reason, if that were the case, to maintain discrimination based on political conviction in our Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u49	Well, no. I am in favour of simply listening to what Piet van der Sanden said in 1976, if you want to say something about this matter in the Constitution. He suggested to limit it to: everyone is equal before the law; period. As far as I am concerned, in order to avoid misunderstandings, every Dutchman is equal before the law. Then we'll be there. Now we see the trap we've fallen into. New categories, new people, new people, new people, new people, new people, new people, new people, new people, new people, new people, new people, new people, new People say I'm Category X, I'm Category Y. Thus we can continue forever, while many of those categories that you can invent have long been laid down in the law. The General Equal Treatment Act talks about origin, about marital status, about age. You'd be covered up a long time ago. So why would you start such a potpourri of categories?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u50	Finally. There is quite a fundamental difference between "everyone who is in the Netherlands" and "everyone who is in the Netherlands." I think that's already discrimination.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u51	No, that's the essence of the rule of law, I think. The Dutch have different rights than people who are not Dutch. If you're Dutch, you enjoy equal rights. Then it's very clear to record that. Piet van der Sanden was right in 1976,
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u52	I shall return to an earlier part of Mr Bosma's speech. That's what bothered me for a while. That was a piece of history forgery. Mr Bosma suggested that his party leader would have said: do you want more or less criminal Moroccans? But that's exactly what he didn't say. He said, "Do you want more or less Moroccans?" Of that you can very well defend that it is discrimination. I just wanted to make that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u53	Nor have I said it as Mr Van Dijk has said it now. The question was about more or less Moroccans. That was about criminal Moroccans, as my party leader in the court explained several times. It is Mr Van Dijk who is making history forgery.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u54	No, you can just listen back to your own term and then you hear that you are suggesting that your party leader would have said: do you want more or less criminal Moroccans? That wasn't exactly what he said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u55	I didn't say that. Listen to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u56	Good. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Now that the amendment has been mentioned so many times, I was wondering if I had to start my speaking time at all, but I am doing it anyway. For over 40 years I have fought with many others for the lhbt target group. You will understand that I wholeheartedly support and support the efforts of Vera Bergkamp, Kirsten van den Hul, Nevin Özütok and their predecessors. Groups in the Netherlands who are discriminated against or threatened with discrimination in the Netherlands must be able to count on our Constitution. For 40 years I have been fully committed to this target group. I have been doing this for ten years now for another target group, which sometimes threatens to suffer equally badly: the elderly. Just as I now believe that sexual orientation as a non-discrimination ground should be added to the Constitution, I believe that this should also be done with age. Unfortunately, older people also experience discrimination. This is another aspect of the Constitution. The designation of specific forms of discrimination as a non-discrimination ground is necessary despite the generic provision in Article 1. The generic provision prohibits all forms of discrimination in principle, but the designation of specific grounds has an important significance, both nationally and internationally. This is convincingly explained by the initiators. The appointment indicates that society finds those forms of discrimination particularly objectionable and wants to prevent and combat all the means at its disposal. 50PLUS does draw a clear line when it comes to pedosexuality. In particular, I am not talking, like Mr Bishop, about pedophilia, but about pedosexuality, which could possibly be called sexual orientation. This limit should, according to the belief of 50PLUS, also be explicitly excluded in this debate. I'd like to get a response from the initiators and the minister. The proposed amendment of the Constitution is a special opportunity for the 50PLUS Group to make a plea, but I almost did not have to do it anymore for the explication of age as a non-discrimination ground in Article 1. It is a long-cherished wish and we see the necessity growing. I will devote the rest of my speech to this. Madam President, here we have a great compliment to the Bureau of Legislation, which has been very helpful to our group. I closely follow the explanatory memorandum of this bill, which, of course, is our framework here. The pleading fits like a glove and I also hope that colleagues here in the Chamber will give a sympathetic ear. The impact of age discrimination on the victim and society as a whole is as bad as other forms of discrimination already mentioned in Article 1 of the Constitution. Not getting a job because you're too old is as bad as not getting a job because you have a certain religion, a certain skin color or a certain sexual preference. The extent of age discrimination in the labour market is enormous. Over 30% of employers mention in their vacancies that they are looking for school leavers, novice staff or people with up to three years' work experience, while this is prohibited under the Equal Treatment Act on the basis of age in employment. The Human Rights College states, I quote: "A young candidate is still too self-evident and the disadvantage of older applicants is widely accepted. This has to be different." In 2017, the case was of a large supermarket chain, where the college ruled that that chain had been guilty of age discrimination. The conclusion of the College was that prohibited distinction was made on the basis of age. Although age discrimination may be the most acute in the labour market, age discrimination is also taking place in many other areas. While older people are rediscovered as consumers, it is common for older people to be excluded from products or services or to have access only under stricter conditions or at a higher price. The consequences for the victim are obvious. But there are consequences for society as well. Exclusion of services can ultimately lead to social and social isolation, with all its consequences. The debate on the designation of age in Article 1 is certainly not new. The former Equal Treatment Committee delivered an opinion on its own initiative in 2004 following the 2001 Rouvet motion. The Committee called for age to be included in Article 1. It was argued that the court would be less rigorous when recourse was made to a non-expressly appointed ground. This was supported by a reference to case law. The cabinet stated that the case law cited was pre-2000 and therefore pre-established the European directives against discrimination based, inter alia, on age. This would sufficiently secure age as a non-discrimination ground in the caselaw. The cabinet also concluded that the committee did not take into account social views at all. That was the second reason why age did not deserve a place in the Constitution. No urgent legal or social need was given for amending Article 1. In 2005, it was stated that age is not a suspicious form of discrimination in advance and would therefore not belong in Article 1. However, we have been years and years and a lot has changed. Thinking about discrimination and fighting it has gained wings at national and international level. Age discrimination is a prominent part of this. Those international and national developments, which I shall mention later, confirm that age does indeed belong to a form of suspicious discrimination. The more age discrimination becomes part of national and international legislation, the more protection is justified in the Constitution. That is why there is increasing public support. Although the explanatory statement states that age is strongly related to its changing character, it remains a fact that it is a personal characteristic that you cannot change. Your age is a given. She's inextricably linked to your identity. Your age changes logically throughout your life, but you can't influence it. Your birth year will be your birth year. That's what Emile Ratelband found out in court. In international terms, age as a non-discrimination ground is included, inter alia, in Article 21 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 21 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, Articles 10 and 19 of the EU Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and in the Council Directive establishing a general framework for equal treatment in employment and occupation. Although age is not explicitly included in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the High Commissioner for Human Rights explicitly mentions age in the introduction. He states that the rights of the declaration belong to everyone, regardless of matters such as race, origin, gender and also age. It really is a universal explanation. In the Netherlands, much has been achieved in the field of age discrimination, in particular the Equal Treatment Act based on age in work. Organisations such as the SZW Inspection, the Human Rights College and anti-discrimination facilities play an important role in detecting and assessing age discrimination prohibited by law under national and international regulations. The report Discrimination figures in 2018 show that all reports on anti-discrimination provisions are based on 8% age discrimination. Then we're talking 367 reports. Of the reports that come to the College of Human Rights, that is 15%. There are proposals from the Cabinet to extend the tasks and powers of the anti-discrimination provisions in order to combat age discrimination more effectively and to combat age discrimination in the workplace. Labour law deals with many cases in connection with suspicions of age discrimination in the fulfilment of vacancies. All these things have shown that age as a non-discrimination ground is widely used in society and is a crystallised core value. I use the words of the initiators. The Constitution is a special law in which there is certainly no place for fashion phenomena or short-term whims. Only broad-based social values and standards belong to this. This is confirmed by the way we amend the Constitution: in two readings and ultimately by a two-thirds majority. The Constitution is an important signal that strongly underlines the desirability and need to combat age discrimination. The designation of age as a non-discrimination ground in Article 1 is necessary despite the generic provision. The generic provision prohibits in principle all forms of discrimination, but the designation of specific grounds has an important national and international significance, as the initiators have convincingly explained in the explanatory memorandum. Explicit appointment indicates that society and the legislator consider age discrimination particularly objectionable and want to prevent and combat it by all means available to them. It is therefore entirely in line with the arguments used by the initiators of the present Constitutional Amendment to explicitly include disability and sexual orientation. naming age as a non-discrimination ground gives citizens protection against the legislator. It gives social protection and protection by the judge. Not only the national courts, but also international supervisory colleges, such as the European Court of Human Rights and the UN Human Rights Committee, make a difference between appointed and unnamed grounds in terms of the manner and intensity of tests.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u58	This is a long talk about age discrimination. I said something about it in my contribution, in response to the question...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u59	He's not done yet, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u60	I have a question about the procedure. The amendment has been distributed. However, I was wondering why an amendment to an own-initiative proposal seeking to settle a number of other issues was adopted, and not for an own initiative proposal that could have been passed by the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u61	The answer seems to me clip-and-ready, when you see how long this has lasted. This procedure seems to me to be a lot simpler.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u62	But is that seriously the reason for submitting the speed of an amendment procedure to another legislative initiative proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u63	Now's a good time to join us. I also welcome this initiative. I'm really happy about that. But you will not blame me, as the first man at 50PLUS, for my commitment to this target group as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u64	And being pragmatic sometimes helps. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u65	Inclusion in the Constitution sends out a signal that age discrimination is unacceptable. It also has an important symbolic value in further combating age discrimination in an increasingly ageing society. Don't forget, a lot of people know that dozens of countries were ahead of us. Among others, Switzerland, Sweden, Finland, Portugal, Serbia, New Zealand, Canada and South Africa have already explicitly included age as a non-discrimination ground in their constitution. It is time for the Netherlands to join in that line, especially now that the discussion is also taking place in our neighbouring countries. Finally. As we know from a number of spokesmen, my group is working on an initiative law to criminalise age discrimination. I would like to have the debate on the need for criminalisation with you at another time. It is now clear that age discrimination is a persistent problem which the legislators at home and abroad rightly pay particular attention to. Our amendment on age is certainly not intended as a cuckoo cub, but as a necessary supplement to Article 1 as the grounds for disability and sexual orientation. In any case: may I end up here and then I'll save seven minutes of our time with the once again cordial, and from the bottom of my heart, complimenting the initiators? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u66	Thanks also to Mr Krol. Mr Van der Molen has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u67	I am suggesting that age discrimination, which I think Mr Krol is right to draw attention to, can, of course, include discrimination against people of young age.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u68	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u69	In that case, I have the following question, which was also raised in my speech and also with Mr Van Dijk. I'm just going to use the example of a lot of Christmas balls in the Christmas tree. If we explicate land every time and go to such a long list, then at some point you might have to have a big clean-up. Would you mind taking a look at that? For you add to two grounds that I think are widely supported in the Chamber, yet one more. As a result, the argument to keep clean-up may well be greater than we might want with each other. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u70	I've been having that discussion for 40 years. 40 years ago, when I was still editor-in-chief of the Gay Newspaper, this was exactly what we kept talking about. Do we have to do this or limit it or not? Ultimately, the explicit designation of these grounds has a number of advantages. I have appointed it in my speech and I am convinced of it. If you look at abroad and in how many countries age is now mentioned in the Constitution, I would say: you don't have to be so afraid of a Christmas tree that is going to be crooked because of the Christmas balls. The more Christmas balls in the tree, the more beautiful the tree is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u71	Thank you, Mr. Krol. I now give the floor to Mr Bouali on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am very pleased to discuss this initiative proposal in this Chamber today. Let me begin by thanking former Members Van der Ham, Azough and Timmer. Thanks to their commitment, we are discussing this issue in the Chamber today. We're not just discussing anything here. It's a constitutional change. Such a change rightly involves a very careful process. The pieces show that these initiators didn't go ice over one night either. My compliments on that. But also my very special compliments I look back a row for the employees who have made this possible. That is a very special effort. It is also a very special experience for them to sit here. Mr. Chairman. The coalition agreement states: "Emancipation and the protection of our values need our attention all the time." This proposal for an initiative is a practical one. It is also included as such in the coalition agreement. Why is the time ripe to amend the Constitution in this respect? First of all, the long list of countries included in the explanatory memorandum currently lists only two countries that have not included disability in the Constitution as grounds for non-discrimination. Unfortunately, the Netherlands is one of them. I'm gonna be honest with you, that scared the hell out of me. The Netherlands is a country of freedom, equality and tolerance. The Netherlands is a country of equal opportunities for all. The Netherlands is also a country where everyone should have the chance to participate. In a society that wants D66, there is room for diversity. In my view, it is a logical step to include disability in Article 1 of the Constitution in the Netherlands. In 2016, the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities was ratified. It took the Rutte II cabinet four years to do this. Let's not wait so long again with the next step. The aim of this Convention is to improve the position of people with disabilities. The inclusion of the term "disability" in Article 1 of our Constitution is a major, beautiful and highly desirable step against discrimination against people with disabilities. As far as I am concerned, it is a step in the right direction. Mr. Chairman. In 2001, the Netherlands was the first country in the world to open civil marriage to equal-sex couples; a law amendment that D66'er Boris Dittrich had been fighting for for six years. In the meantime, almost 30 countries in the world have followed this example. The Netherlands served as an example country at the time. That's very positive. It fits with the values of freedom and tolerance that are very important for Dutch people. That is why we would like to remain in charge of this. At present, there are nine countries worldwide that offer constitutional protection against discrimination based on sexual orientation. D66 considers that the Netherlands should join these countries. Article 1 of the Constitution is so important that it may be printed on the façade of the House of Representatives. How nice would it be if everyone who walks outside this building could see that the Netherlands does not tolerate discrimination on grounds of disability or sexual orientation? Mr. Chairman. I have a number of questions to ask. In order to create equality of opportunity, it is sometimes necessary to provide additional protection for certain people. People need different opportunities, just because everyone is so different. My colleague from the Labour Party already brought that up. I am thinking of a temporary female quota to get more women in top positions. Then I'm thinking of promoting diversity in the police. I am thinking of a preferred policy to create equal opportunities in the labour market for people with disabilities. It is in the interest of the Netherlands that society is inclusive and that everyone can participate in the workplace and at social and cultural level. That is why I would like to ask the initiators whether they think that after this constitutional change it is possible and will continue to apply a preferred policy. Will it remain possible to create opportunities for disadvantaged groups? In that case, the law could be unintentionally contradictory. Mr. Chairman. It has also been noted that our Constitution has a sober nature. Do the initiators think that this constitutional change could harm this sober nature? Mr President, I conclude. D66 wants to actively create opportunities for people to take advantage of their talents and apply their knowledge. For D66, the fundamental values of our society are freedom and equality, the freedom for every human being to develop in their own right. This amendment of the Constitution will ensure that this objective, which we are all committed to in today's practice, is incorporated into Article 1 of our Constitution. That is why it is receiving our full support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u73	Mr Bouali says that the Netherlands is the country of equal opportunities. But D66 just stands for discrimination. If the University of Eindhoven says "we don't hire men anymore," then D66 Minister Van Engelshoven, who deals with higher education, is very enthusiastic about that. Men have zero chances there. Is zero opportunities the same as equal opportunities? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u74	No, you don't understand. I'm almost afraid to use an English word, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u75	Well, let's go.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u76	Level playing field. In the end, it's about us...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u77	A level playing field: that is a very nice Dutch word.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u78	I do think we should create a level playing field. The chairman always comes to my aid. In the specific case of your question, it is indeed about creating equal opportunities. If that has not been the case for a long time, I think it is very good that you ensure that that level playing field is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u79	No, there is no level playing field, because men are not allowed to apply. We have also seen this in the selection of the mayor of Amsterdam. That wasn't supposed to be a man either. We also saw this in the selection of the mayor of The Hague. It wasn't supposed to be a man there either. It is very orwellian to argue for equal opportunities and to say that 50% of the population should not participate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u80	We can talk about this for a long time. You are now giving two examples. I think I can give you many more examples of towns or villages where male mayors swing the scepter. Let us indeed ensure that everyone gets an equal chance at a job. If we find a suitable man or woman, we have to appoint them. There are just fewer women in certain places. We can all see that. In this respect, I am also very pleased that we have set up this quota for women, so that we can ensure that we all align and thereby create equal opportunities for all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u81	I'm gonna use a few words of English, too, but I'll translate them right away. At the time of the war in Vietnam there was an American general who said, "We had to destroy the town in order to save it." In other words, we had to destroy the village to preserve it. If you argue orwellian for equal opportunities but at the same time say that half the population is not allowed to participate, are you going to destroy your own argument? Surely you can't insist that it's about equal opportunities if half the population doesn't participate?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u82	I don't know. I think you're just gonna sit around. I want equal opportunities. I want to ensure that both men and women, as well as people with disabilities, can participate equally. If that hasn't been the case for a very long time, we need to fix it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u83	Thank you, Mr. Bouali.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u84	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u85	I now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate and congratulate the authors of this bill, the representatives of D66, GroenLinks and the Labour Party who have defended the proposal in the past and the staff of these groups. It is not just an initiative law that is before us. This is an amendment to the very first article of the Constitution, which was put into effect more than nine years ago. Others have also recalled this. Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union attaches great importance to our Constitution and the values that inspired it. From the Christian tradition we name as common values of our society: human dignity, equality, charity, tolerance, care for creation and freedom of faith. This also translates into the various constitutional freedoms, such as freedom of faith, freedom of expression, freedom of education and the right to equal treatment. These freedoms are dear to us. These freedoms have no order of precedence. They're all of value. In practice, you will always have a weighting between the different freedoms. As a society, we must continue to account for the origins of the Netherlands and its bearing values. The Constitution and the Statute of the Kingdom play an important role for the Christian Union. Given the nature of the proposal, it is not just an article of law that we are dealing with here, but the Constitution is my first question to the authors as to what their view of our Constitution is. What role does this Constitution play in our society? Mr. Chairman. Our Constitution begins with the right to equal treatment and the prohibition of discrimination. A non-limitative list of grounds for discrimination has been chosen. The initiators propose to add two grounds to this list: disability and sexual orientation. I will not be secretive about it and I will not leave the initiators in suspense for long, because they may have read our electoral programme and then they know that we will wholeheartedly support this proposal. As early as 2001 the Rouvoot motion called for the inclusion of disability and chronic illness in Article 1, and it is good to see that many others have recalled this. Mr. Chairman. There is, of course, a dilemma that is already present in Article 1. On the one hand, we are committed to naming specific grounds such as religion, gender and race. On the other hand, we want to avoid improper discrimination on other grounds such as civil status or nationality. Can the initiators argue why they consider it valuable to use these two specific grounds? How is it prevented that discrimination on other grounds - and I have just listened very carefully to Mr Krol's speech - is unintentionally seen as less serious? What is, for example, the relationship between Article 1 of the General Law on Equal Treatment and the Code of Criminal Law and the grounds for discrimination laid down in Article 137? I also ask the Minister this question. Mr. Chairman. The initiators rightly say that the position of people with disabilities is not yet good. That also became painfully clear in the last week. It is not easier, but it has become more difficult for people with disabilities to participate fully in our society. Can the initiators indicate why only disability has been chosen? Is it true that this can also be understood as a chronic disease? What were the reasons for not explicitly including this, a chronic disease? Mr. Chairman. Lhbti'ers often don't feel safe in our country. And in schools, "gay" is still the most commonly used swear word. Last summer, a transgender couple from Heerlen felt forced to move, because they are systematically bullied and threatened. The Christian Union believes that everyone in our country should feel safe, including minorities. The commission of a crime because of who someone is, because of who you are, must be severely punished. That is also the reason why the Christian Union is working with GroenLinks with a sanctioning ground for committing so-called hate crimes. Civil society organisations and initiators express the hope that the inclusion of disability and sexual orientation will promote awareness of equal treatment among public authorities and encourage continued care in our legislation to eliminate inequality of opportunities. The Christian Union supports this aim and it is one of the reasons why we started the initiative legislative process with the PvdA and D66 to recognise the Dutch sign language. I have two more questions for the Minister. Can the Minister indicate whether he shares the expectation that this change will promote awareness of equal treatment among public bodies? Does he want to keep a personal eye on this, too? Finally, I have a very practical question. I do not see him right now, Mr Bouali, suggesting that the new rights, the new Article 1 of the Constitution, are written in large letters on the House of Representatives. Now there is already the Constitutional Bank outside the Courtyard. How do the initiators foresee that the new rights in Article 1 may also be placed on this Constitutional Bank?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u87	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. I now give the floor to Mr Van Gent on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u88	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate my colleagues and thank them for their legislative proposal. It has had a very long history, but fortunately we can deal with it now. I particularly thank them for giving us the opportunity to talk about the Constitution and, in particular, Article 1. All articles are precious to us, but the principle of non-discrimination implies recognition and respect for human individuality and is one of the foundations of our rule of law. The last amendment to Article 1 took place in the early 1980s; reference has already been made to it. At that time there was also a huge discussion about the wording. We owe the present text to no one less than Mr Bosma already gave it to Marcus Bakker, who pursued the broadest possible scope of the law and who was able to adopt an amendment adding that discrimination on any ground is not allowed. In addition to Mr Bosma, I believe that Mr Bakker was not responsible for the categories that were also mentioned, but this aside. Sometimes it's good to dive into history. If you look at the treatment of the bill, you will see a lot of elements that are still very substantial today. At that time, too, we were aware of the shortcomings of the law. It was stated quite freely that a constitutional article of someone who discriminates does not yet make a civilized person. But it was also said that the opening rules of the Constitution would provide guidance to those who are discriminated against and would also give them the assurance that they are and could claim to be in the law in their opposition. Therefore, the VVD fully understands the need to extend Article 1 with the explicit statement that discrimination based on disability and sexual orientation is not allowed. It has an important symbolic value and a strong signal for the acceptance of citizens in our country who feel excluded by their disability or sexual orientation. They deserve our attention and support. The VVD is therefore in favour of the bill. Mr. Chairman. At the same time, this raises a question. There are more people and groups who feel excluded, but whose grounds for discrimination are not explicitly mentioned in Article 1. Mr Van Dijk has already referred to this. I have also come up with some other grounds for discrimination; there are, of course, many more. Does not the principle of equality also apply to them? I'm very curious about the reaction of the proposers. Finally, Mr President. My colleague from the Christian Union has already referred to the Constitutional Bank. This is the first reading. There's still some time left before the final reading. I think it would be wise to send a warning to the local authorities, because in many county halls and council halls Article 1 is on the wall. That will have to be changed in due course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u89	Maybe that's something for a motion from the VVD, but that aside. What exactly is the VVD's position on this law? Do you share the view that the article should be supplemented or do you say: no, then you get the so-called Christmas tree effect, then there will be an infinite range of categories and we should not have that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u90	We are in favour of the legislative proposal, but we do see the risk that others will be able to claim it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u91	Are you going to support, for example, the 50PLUS amendment which also allows age to be added to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u92	If you have read the note on the basis of the report, you will have seen that we have asked that question explicitly. I received the amendment yesterday. A constitutional change must be done carefully, of course. I'm also very curious about the reactions. I can say that, of course, you should not distinguish between grounds for discrimination.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u93	If that amendment is adopted, Mr Krol himself must chisel the Constitutional Bank outside. Looks to me like he deserved it. We are seeing a number of trends. We see that there are always new categories. Everyone comes up with another group where they want to make themselves popular. Another trend is that these groups are becoming wider and wider. Breed also means nationality, because according to the judge, Moroccans are already a race. We are already coming to Mrs Dik-Faber's question: what is a handicap? Well, says Mrs Dik-Faber, chronically ill should also be included. Can Mr Van Gent, who is enthusiastic about this addition, define "disability" for me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u94	I would first like to reflect on what Mr Bosma said earlier. The making up of groups, I think that's quite something. There are groups that actually feel discriminated against on certain grounds; you don't make that up. "Handicap" could also be described as: physical condition. That is also a very broad definition. Of course there is much more to this than just a physical disability in the sense that you can't see or move properly, for example. You could say that if people have gray hair, that's also a form of physical condition, or without hair.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u95	Then, of course, Pandora's box is nicely ripped open. Suppose you can't move and you still want to play in the Concertgebouw, or you have all the demands and you say: yes, but wait a minute, I'm being discriminated against, because that's because of my handicap. Well, then you can go to trial in full. Apparently, that's what the VVD wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u96	This can be done on the basis of what has already been said, at least in the Constitution, but it has its translation into criminal law, as Mr Bishop also said. But that can be done on any ground. So, in theory, that's all there is to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u97	My group has really struggled with Mr Krol's amendment. In fact, I do see that the provision of cumulation is included in the Constitution. In my view, it is officially termed as such that discrimination on any ground is excluded, and that this provision of cumulation loses meaning at the time the list of grounds for discrimination becomes longer. That's what the Council of State said. So I'm struggling with that. I hear the same struggle with the VVD group. Would it be an idea to submit Mr Krol's amendment to the Council of State, so that it can respond and we can involve the Council of State in the debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u98	I think that a constitutional change is so essential that I would indeed like to hear the opinion of the Council of State on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u99	Okay. Were you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u100	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u101	Thank you, Mr. Van Gent. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u102	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank the members of D66, GroenLinks and the PvdA for submitting this initiative legislative proposal to include disability and sexual orientation as a non-discrimination ground in Article 1 of our Constitution. It takes a lot of time to write an initiative proposal, to adapt it several times and to weigh all the pros and cons in such a way that there is a sound initiative proposal. I would, of course, like to thank the authors and their support for this. Mr. Chairman. I am very pleased with this proposed constitutional change. It should be obvious that we do not discriminate on grounds of disability or sexual orientation, but the sad reality is that people in the Netherlands are still discriminated against on these grounds. People still have to deal with prejudice, stigmatisation and sometimes even hatred. It is important to protect them and to provide additional support with the explicit mention of precisely these grounds for discrimination. Discrimination on grounds of disability or sexual orientation should have absolutely no place in our society. Mr. Chairman. It has already been said that this initiative proposal has long been awaited. I agree with the question that has already been asked as to why it took nine years. I would like to ask the proposers to put a real rush on this right now. In the case of a constitutional change, it is long enough in itself for it to come into force, so please pay attention to that. Mr. Chairman. I understand the thinking of previous speakers who argue that we should not include many more non-discrimination grounds in the Constitution. People are discriminated against on the basis of everything: nationality, marital status, age, wealth, everything. Shouldn't we delete more? The Constitution should and should remain sober. Mr Bosma called it a Christmas tree with more and more balls. It would indeed be better if we had a general prohibition of discrimination and had enough of that, because no one should be discriminated against on any basis whatsoever. Period. Clear. That would be great. I fully agree with that, but that is not the current state of the law we are dealing with. After all, a number of balls are already hanging in the Christmas tree. I therefore wholeheartedly support the inclusion of non-discrimination grounds for disability and sexual orientation. By the way, I am also opposed to the fact that people are becoming more and more divided into groups. You could say: we live with about 7 billion people on this earth, each with his/her own identity; let's talk about individuals and say that they should not be discriminated against on any ground. That's like some kind of sidestep. I do agree wholeheartedly with the initiative of the proposers. It is a very strong signal. It confirms a core value in our society and its legal relevance has been confirmed on several occasions. Precisely the explicit mention of a non-discrimination ground in Article 1 of the Constitution, as is already the case with regard to religion, belief, political orientation, race and gender, is legally seen as an explicit reference to the legislator. The inclusion of these non-discrimination grounds in the Constitution is a guarantee that legislation, policies and provisions for people with disabilities or disabilities and those with disabilities will be maintained, extended and improved. It is also necessary, according to the interest groups, to safeguard the hard-won rights in the Constitution, although it may also be clear that safeguarding rights with the inclusion of a non-discrimination ground in the Constitution is not ready. Even then we cannot sit back, but it is an important step. Mr. Chairman. I would like to point out to the authors that it is also important to clarify that the prohibited grounds of discrimination for sex in Article 1 Constitution also protects against discrimination based on gender characteristics, gender identity and gender expression. It seems very important to me to confirm this once again. Would the proposers also like to say something about this? Would the proposers like to explain how transgender and intersex individuals are given constitutional protection? Is it perhaps possible to make additional proposals for this, or are their rights already sufficiently protected at the present time? Mr. Chairman. I also wonder whether positive discrimination for the vulnerable groups who need it will still be possible if this bill is adopted. It has already been asked by D66 and GroenLinks, but I also wonder. I am sure that the authors will have thought this through, because some vulnerable groups whose struggle for emancipation has not yet been fought sometimes need positive discrimination, however unfortunate that may be. This is necessary, for example, in the labour market, at the top of the business community. I'd like an explanation of that. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to wish the authors every success in continuing the procedure and preparing them for their first term, and again, thank you very much. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u103	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I would like to thank the Members of Parliament and, of course, the initiators. They still have to prepare everything, so a real word of thanks comes to the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u104	I'm about to suspend the meeting. Then we're gonna vote first, and then we're gonna have the deal.
