ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the debate on an extended Bahraini asylum seeker sentenced to life imprisonment. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Justice and Security and the members. Before I give the floor to Mr Voordewind, I will give you some details of this debate. The last interplay debate, which we held here in this House, dates back to 5 September 2013. Mr Voordewind will give an explanation of the questions he has put. It is not common for the interplelant to be interrupted at this stage. The Secretary of State will then reply. Here too, I do not allow any interruptions. Following the reply of the Secretary of State, Mr Voordewind was given the floor again, after which the other spokesmen followed. In this time-limit for the other spokesmen, the tabling of motions for resolutions is discussed and may be interrupted. I now give the floor to Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union. If it is correct, all Members have received the 25 interview questions. I hear from Mr Voordewind that they have all had them. Fine. Mr Voordewind has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u2	No, Mr. Chairman, I'm not gonna read them to you. I'll try to summarize them. Mr. Chairman. A rejected asylum seeker from Bahrain is deported to his country of origin. That was early January this year. Then the message will follow that he was arrested as soon as he arrived. Together with Mr Groothuizen, I asked written questions, but with reference to the privacy of the data subject, only general answers followed. About two months later, it was reported that the person in question had been sentenced to life imprisonment and possibly even tortured or abused. A Bahraini source reports that a Dutch diplomat has been denied access to the trial. Mr Groothuizen and I once again asked questions about how the Netherlands could have expelled an asylum seeker who was immediately arrested and then sentenced to life imprisonment. The IND says that it always carries out a test, in accordance with Article 3 of the ECHR, or that people are at risk after returning to the country of origin. Mr. Chairman. The decision on an application for asylum may, in the extreme, be a matter of life or death. It is therefore very important that an assessment is carried out very carefully. No one is infallible, but precisely because the consequences can be so serious, it can be expected that all available information will be weighed. And if something goes wrong, as seems to be the case in this case, after all, the man has been sentenced to life imprisonment, then at least an investigation will have to be carried out to see if something has actually gone wrong here. The key question is therefore whether it was foreseen that he would be in danger and prosecuted after returning to Bahrain. There are indications that there were reasons to doubt that at least. I would like to mention briefly three. The man's brother was seen by the regime as a leader of a terrorist organization and we know from Bahrain that family members may be at risk. Mr Al-Showaikh had himself designated to be involved in an opposition group in Bahrain and he would be on a list of 54 members of the opposition groups. Then you'd think there'd be reasonable doubt at least. Mr. Chairman. The questions I have asked, which I hope the Secretary of State will answer, are summarized in three questions in the first term. How can the Secretary of State say in his written reply that there was no reason to believe that Mr Al-Showaikh's human rights would be violated upon return? "No reason to foresee this" sounds very clear, but at the same time we read that the Secretary of State is taking diplomatic steps to clarify this matter. He is therefore concerned, and he acknowledges this in the written reply. It is true that there was no reason to doubt that he had to fear for his life and that he had to fear persecution, so I ask the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. Bahrain's asylum seeker's case follows some expulsions to Sudan. In any case, in one of these cases, there has been a serious signal that the person concerned has been detained and abused for a number of days by the Sudanese authorities. We have also asked questions about this matter. I now ask the Secretary of State to include Sudan in this case. Mr. Chairman. Finally. Can the Secretary of State explain how he will allow the Chamber to carry out its controlling task, while he often invokes the confidentiality of the asylum procedure of individual cases? I'd like to hear his answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u4	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Although the reason for the debate we are having today is an annoying one, I appreciate having this debate with your Chamber. If there is any doubt about the care or accuracy of Dutch asylum decisions, it is appropriate that I, as a ruler, should account for them at this place and explain the system and its implementation. At the same time, it is also clear that there can be tension in the way in which we can have that debate today. For the sake of respect for privacy, I am not free to disclose individual facts and circumstances from an asylum file. Each asylum procedure shall emphasise the confidentiality of what the applicant puts forward in the procedure. To be precise: every asylum seeker is explained at the beginning of the Dutch procedure of the IND that he can speak freely and that everything discussed is treated confidentially, and that therefore the information in the file is never provided to the authorities of the country of origin, nor to third parties without his express consent, unless this is necessary for the implementation of the Dutch law. Mr. Chairman. This is not only a national choice; the requirement of confidentiality also derives from the international right of asylum. For how can one ask asylum seekers to be open and honest about their asylum grounds when they have to fear their revelation by the country where they ask for asylum? So that could also be in a public debate like this. More generally, I also believe that restraint is in place when it comes to public disclosure of facts and/or judgements on individual files, especially when the person concerned has no or less good opportunity to express his own image. Apart from that, I must also bear in mind that what I report in public may become known in the country of origin. This could play a role in the criminal proceedings in which there is still an appeal. I think that too is undesirable. On the other hand, there is a prison in Bahrain and has been sentenced to life imprisonment, which is also so confirmed in criminal proceedings. That that gives rise to concern, I understand. I share that concern too, but the Netherlands does not have its own information about torture and I can neither confirm nor deny reports about it. The prison sentence imposed does not make it possible to establish a relationship with the Dutch asylum procedure. This requires access and insight into the criminal proceedings and the taking of evidence in this case, and the Netherlands does not have that access. Nor can it be concluded that the expulsion was contrary to the principle of non-refoulement, since that conclusion assumes that the return treatment was foreseeable and that the application for authorisation in the Netherlands was nevertheless rejected. However, the IND and the judge had no reason to foresee that. I believe that, on the basis of the information available at the time, it was reasonable to consider that it was not likely that Mr Al-Showaikh would have feared persecution on his return. However, a more detailed explanation of this position requires me to go into the details of this matter, but as I indicated earlier, I do not think I am free to do so. However, I can indicate that the IND has made an analysis of the decisions taken. On this basis, it has been concluded that the procedure has been carefully followed and that the negative decisions taken have been taken on good grounds. The court also concluded, on the basis of an abridged judicial review, that expulsion did not constitute an infringement of Article 3 ECHR on the non-refoulement. I do not therefore see any reason for the research requested by Mr Voordewind, which, if I understand Mr Voordewind correctly in the written questions, should be an examination of the substance of the IND decision. But that is precisely why we have the judicial review in the Netherlands. The comparison with the Dolmatov case is in that sense flawed by questions relating to the organisation of the proceedings and the fulfilment of existing procedural arrangements. On the contrary, the substantive asylum judgment was not part of the investigation in the Dolmatov case. In the present case, the safeguards to be observed in asylum matters have also been effectively respected. Although the developments that have occurred after the expulsion are cause for concern, I can only conclude that the causality between the rejected asylum application and the criminal conviction in Bahrain cannot be established. It has happened several times in the past that shortly after an expulsion there were reports that a rejected asylum seeker had been detained or otherwise treated inhumanely. In such cases, it is difficult, by its nature, to establish the accuracy of those messages. This applies, for example, to the Sudan case referred to by Mr Voordewind, to which I shall go even further in a moment. In addition, it is generally not possible to establish the causality of what has been said in the asylum procedure and the post-return events. It is possible that a person may be detained on return for reasons other than those raised by the person in the asylum procedure. The best way to judge the Dutch asylum procedure, including the judicial review that goes with it, is therefore, in my opinion, not by analysing individual cases here, but by discussing with each other today how the IND arrives at its verdict in a careful procedure. In doing so, we must be aware that we also have the guarantees of judicial review. Mr. Chairman. With regard to that procedure. Each asylum application requires an assessment based on the individual merits of the case. As asylum seekers are generally unable or at least not able to support an application in all respects, the statements made during the asylum hearing are an important source of information. In addition, the application is always assessed in the light of what public sources report on the country of origin. There is no exhaustive list of aspects that play a role in this. Nor is there a standard weighting on which these aspects are assessed. This is really a case-by-case assessment. There are, however, a number of issues that often play an important role in general terms. These are the following questions, and note that the list I am giving now cannot be automatically related to the case we are discussing today. These are the following questions. Did the stranger suggest that he had any problems prior to his departure? Can the stranger explain these problems in any case in general terms and with regard to relevant details? Is there any conflicting or summary explanations on points where greater consistency and/or detail could have been expected? Has the foreigner travelled his country of origin legally and in a controlled manner? Is the asylum story consistent with what public sources report on the situation in the country of origin? And have any documents been submitted that corroborate the individual account, and have these documents been found to be genuine? The answer to these questions will differ on a case-by-case basis, but the weighting of those answers will then differ on a case-by-case basis, not only because the context is different in each country of origin, but also because each case is its own context. That is exactly why a good picture of the case can only be obtained on the basis of the entire file of the person concerned in conjunction with relevant public sources. In general, much of this information comes from the asylum seeker himself and consists mainly of statements made by him, information that is usually not supported by evidence. This is often impossible, because people in a flight situation often do not have the ability to collect papers. In addition, there will often be no paper evidence on asylum risks. That makes the oral information all the more relevant, but it requires a weighting of that information and its credibility in every case. A weighting in the light of what is known about a country of origin, from different sources. There is also a limitation here, because especially when we talk about countries of origin where human rights are fragile, people's risks are not always unambiguous and can even vary from day to day. That's the context in which the IND has to do its job. In doing so, each asylum decision is a weighting, a substantiated assessment of the significance of soft information and often not of facts. Because of this context, within the work of the IND, the "benefit of doubt" principle applies, assuming that the asylum seeker's statements are consistent and plausible. There is, therefore, also an approach procedure within which the applicant has the opportunity to respond to a proposed rejection. Then there is the possibility to have the IND's decision reviewed by a judge. But all these guarantees cannot change that each asylum decision is a substantiated assessment, an assessment of what will happen in the future if the asylum seeker returns to the country of origin. Guarantees on their accuracy are not possible by the nature of the issue, however much we do our best to do so. I can imagine that feeling uncomfortable, but it is the inevitable reality. Then monitoring. The basis of our system is therefore the careful assessment and judicial review prior to expulsion. Monitoring after return is not part of that. As far as I am concerned, follow-up monitoring would miss the core of the asylum protection system, which is precisely about the ex ante review. Monitoring of nationals of other countries in those countries would also not be acceptable to countries of origin. However, following the media reports on the case of the person concerned, in which a possible link was made with the Netherlands, a representative of the Netherlands, in this case from the Embassy in Kuwait, who was co-accredited for Bahrain, tried to attend the trial of the person in question. The very first time that representative was not granted access because it would not meet the formal requirements for attending a session. The Netherlands brought that up with the Bahraini authorities. In general, attending a court hearing is a way of monitoring the human rights situation and that is again an integral aspect of Dutch foreign policy. At a later session it was possible. The Dutch government cannot take any action to recover the person concerned if he is not of Dutch nationality and the Netherlands has no jurisdiction to take such action. However, as has been said, the Netherlands has transferred concerns about this matter several times to the Bahraini authorities. The Dutch Government continues to appeal to the Bahraini authorities on the importance of ensuring fair trial in this case, but also in general. In this speech I have already tried to deal with many of the questions, but there are a few that I would like to highlight. Mr Voordewind asked why the person was expelled to Bahrain and not to another country. I answer that question in a general sense, by outlining what policy in this area looks like. So again, I cannot go into the content of the specific dossier. The general line is for a foreigner who has been refused access to the Schengen area, the carrier is obliged to return the person to a place outside the Schengen area. The carrier is then an airline in this case. In the Netherlands it is the Royal Marechaussee who refuses access and also gives the transporter the instructions to lead someone back to the boarding point or to another destination where access is guaranteed. The foreigner then resides in principle in border detention until the claim on the carrier has been settled. If the alien refused entry lodges an asylum application, the detention shall be lifted. Then the person is transferred to an azc. If the application is rejected and the return is on the agenda, the Return and Departure Service asks the Royal Marechaussee to still effect the return claim on the airline. First of all, an asylum seeker is required to comply with the obligation to leave after the decision rejecting the asylum decision has been adopted in law. If an asylum seeker responds to that duty of his own accord, expulsion is not the issue. How the asylum seeker leaves and to which country is his choice. He can take care of that himself. Therefore, the DT&V first relies on the foreigner's cooperation for the return to the place of boarding or to another country where he or she thinks he or she has guaranteed access. If the carrier considers that the alien refused entry cannot have access to the country of the place of boarding, the carrier may request the court order to turn the claim to another country where access is guaranteed. This is the case, for example, when the foreigner is in possession of a valid passport of that country. If a stranger expresses a desire to return voluntarily to another country, the possibilities for doing so can be considered. However, it should also be noted that such a return can actually take place by guaranteeing access in the country desired by the foreigner and also that no departure option is lost with the claim on the carrier. Mr. Chairman. Mr Voordewind's last questions were not about the newspaper article about someone from Bahrain, but about Sudanese asylum seekers. As I communicated to the Chamber by letter last February 1st, I did not receive a concrete and substantiated signal of serious irregularities following an eviction from the Netherlands to Sudan. One signal I verified, but it turned out to be unfounded. I reported that to you last year. Last year, I spoke twice about Amnesty International's research with Amnesty International Netherlands, in May and November. In those talks I also explained why I saw no reason to change the return procedure to Sudan. Mr Voordewind then referred to an opinion of the ACVZ, entitled "Spores from the past." However, this advice takes into account the role of medical examination in the assessment of asylum applications, not post-return situations. I have received no evidence that mistakes have been made in the asylum procedure in the Netherlands of foreigners returning to Sudan. On the question of a report from the NFI, my answer is that, without going into the details of the individual case, I can confirm that the IND has received a request for information from the agent of a returned Sudanese alien. That request has been answered and the information requested in it has been sent to the authorised representative. So I don't follow the statement that requested information has not been received. If the authorised representative wishes to receive additional information in the case of his client, he is of course free to carry out the relevant investigation. I have been asked if I am aware of the UNHCR report. Of course, I am aware of the case and the documents inserted in it. In the case, the IND's decision to reject the foreigner's repeated application for asylum has been confirmed on appeal and on appeal. Again, each case is dealt with individually and assessed on its own merits. The circumstances of the case in question have therefore not been taken into account in the proceedings of other Sudanese foreigners. As I said, I have spoken on several occasions about Amnesty International's information. I have explained why I see no reason to change the return procedure to Sudan. Mr Voordewind probably knows the answer to the question as to whether it should be included in a new letter of office. The responsibility for writing a notice of office lies with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We have also tried to invest that responsibility as independently as possible, on the basis of all available sources. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has indicated that it is expected to publish the new statement of office on Sudan around June 2019. On the basis of the terms or reference, I can ask the Ministry to consider specific topics in the notice. And, as with all the general reports of office, I have asked the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to pay attention to the security situation of returners when drawing up the forthcoming statement of office. Mr. Chairman. I think I've responded to all 26 questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u5	Mr. Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u6	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his detailed reply. I would also like to thank him for that last point, for his reply that the requested message takes the security of returning asylum seekers to Sudan. We will then wait for the post, particularly on that point. Mr. Chairman. I understand, of course, that the Secretary of State says 'we must be cautious in passing on or publicly sharing information on asylum seekers' processes and matters being dealt with', because that may indeed not be in the interests of the asylum seeker. At the same time, it is good to talk about this tonight, to have some form of accountability from the Secretary of State when it comes to this and other matters. Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State says that he made a decision on the basis of the information available at the time. I appreciate the fact that the IND has made its own analysis, but it is of course a bit of an investigation in which the butcher approves his own meat. Mr. Chairman. In the Dolmatov case, the Secretary of State also refers to the investigation of the Safety and Justice Inspectorate. At that time, the Chamber discussed this in detail and debated it at length. What remains, of course, is the remarkable statement by the Secretary of State: 'Despite the procedure, we are concerned about the fate of this asylum seeker, and we have also expressed these concerns several times towards the Bahraini authorities'. That leaves me with an important question to the Secretary of State. I understand he's saying that if there's an investigation through the inspection, that's gonna be a process investigation. We know that even these investigations may be important in order to see whether the procedure has been carefully and carefully carried out. We know the same thing about the Dolmatov case. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State if he is prepared to ask the Justice and Security Inspectorate to carry out an analysis and investigation into this case. I'd like to hear his reaction on that point. Let me ask you a second question. It's about monitoring. I understand, of course, the reluctance of the Secretary of State on this point, but I would like to ask him, in view of the various signals we have received and the case we have before us this evening, whether he is prepared to see whether we could, perhaps on a limited scale, follow cases of returning asylum seekers with limited resources and towards a limited number of countries, namely only countries at risk. I would also like to hear his reaction to that, because we could learn lessons from that in relation to subsequent expulsions. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to ask the Secretary of State if, if he is prepared to conduct an investigation, he is prepared to make the ongoing investigation a mark on new deportations to Bahrain and Sudan. Is he willing to do that? Mr. Chairman. I would like to hear the answers to these questions from the Secretary of State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u7	I now turn to the Secretary of State. No, I'm gonna have to get used to an interplay debate, too. Mr Jasper van Dijk is already ready for his contribution. He has the floor on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u8	It takes some getting used to, an interplay. Mr. Chairman. "They tortured me, and not only during the interrogations," said Mr Al-Showaikh in yesterday's NRC, from prison. Mr Voordewind explained: this is a serious matter. This gentleman was detained without trial after he was deported. According to Amnesty, there is torture. It was known that Mr Al-Showaikh would be in danger in Bahrain. Yet the IND chose to be evicted. This is a violation of the principle of non-refoulement and of Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights. Does the government recognize that a major mistake has been made here? What is worrying is that this could also apply to expulsions to other countries, such as Afghanistan and Sudan. In fact, we have clues to that. Can the Secretary of State respond to disturbing reports of human rights violations in Sudan and Afghanistan? Are you not prepared to deport people to these countries? I'd like a response. The question is also how this careless expulsion could have taken place. Does it have to do with a shortage of personnel at the IND? Does it have anything to do with government muscle display? It is clear: the Secretary of State is also in his stomach with this. Otherwise, he would not indicate diplomatic steps in response to Parliament's questions. Can he say more about that? Mr. Chairman. As far as the SP is concerned, the Secretary of State is doing three things. 1. The government must make every effort to bring Mr Al-Showaikh to safety. 2. Research needs to be done on the way the IND works. 3. Until then, I think it would be a good idea to suspend deportations to Bahrain. The same applies to countries such as Sudan and Afghanistan. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the IND has deported an asylum seeker to Bahrain after which he was immediately detained;]] [[noting that it infringed the principle of non-refoulement;]] [[calls on the Government to conduct independent investigations into the working methods of the IND,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the IND has deported an asylum seeker to Bahrain after which he was immediately detained;]] [[noting that it infringed the principle of non-refoulement;]] [[calls on the government to make every effort to bring this person back to the Netherlands or otherwise to bring him to safety,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35169-1]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35169-2]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last autumn, Mr Al-Showaikh was sent back to Bahrain, after his request for protection in the Netherlands was rejected. He was immediately imprisoned, forced into a false confession by torture and sentenced to life imprisonment in a fake trial. He is now serving this sentence in a much too small cell with seven other prisoners. Something went wrong here, anyone who lets these facts get to him would immediately conclude. But in his answers to the 40 parliamentary questions that have already been written, the Secretary of State does not in any way show this either. On the contrary. He says this was unpredictable. There was no reason to believe that Mr Al-Showaikh had to fear persecution on his return. There is no causality between the facts that emerged in the asylum procedure and the events after return. And no, unfortunately, this is a Dutch citizen, so he does not have to count on consular assistance. Mr. Chairman. What really bothers me in the answers to all these questions is the total absence of any action following the event. That while we also know that the case of Al-Showaikh is not on its own. Bahrain is a notoriously unsafe country for all those who are politically opposed to the regime, as well as their family members. In a country such as Sudan, colleagues also spoke about "sacrifice" people who have been expelled from prison. This calls for an adjustment of the policy on expulsion. That's why I'm filing the following motions. I will do so partly on behalf of Mrs Kuik of the Labour Party, on behalf of whom I am speaking today. That's what I was gonna say at first. Two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, in some cases, expelled asylum seekers are at risk of being arrested and/or abused after expulsion;]] [[whereas the Netherlands has a responsibility to verify, after an expulsion, that there is in fact no breach of the principle of non-refoulement;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how diplomatic posts can be deployed to help ensure the security of returned rejected asylum seekers during the first period after expulsion, and to inform the Court as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Ojik and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35169-3]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u10	The second motion is actually meant to prevent us from learning anything from those cases where something goes wrong. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important to learn lessons from situations in which rejected asylum seekers fall victim to arrest or abuse directly or shortly after expulsion by the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to record and investigate any case in which a refused asylum seeker is confronted with arrest, detention or abuse after expulsion, so that it can be taken into account in future expulsion decisions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Ojik and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35169-4]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, we cannot do anything with this debate. We're discussing the case of an asylum seeker from Bahrain, but we don't even have access to this person's file. So we have no idea of all the facts and circumstances in this case. We don't know anything about the background of this person or his asylum motive. We have no idea what he may or may not have told the Immigration and Naturalization Service, what that service knew about him. We have no indication that the problems that this man has now faced in Bahrain with his application for asylum refused in the Netherlands. In short, there is no way in which we can establish that the IND has committed a culpable error. There's no beginnings of evidence of that either. Mr. Chairman. Apart from this, there are parties, not to mention government parties, which are asking not only for an investigation, but also for a freeze. The PVV actually finds it rather harsh, because if, for example, the IND gives residence permits to terrorists from Syria, and there are several concrete examples of............................................................................................................................................................................................. Then they're not asking for an investigation. Then it is not asked: how is it that this terrorist came through the screening, how is it that he has been granted a residence permit? Then no other policy is asked for. Then it is not said: is it wise to bring in half of Syria without a passport, when we have no idea who they are and what they are doing here? This is selective indignation, pure hypocrisy. I also hear the applicant for this debate say that it must be dealt with in substance, otherwise we will not be able to carry out our monitoring task. But the same applicant himself makes no secret that he discusses all kinds of matters behind the scenes with the Secretary of State, which also lead to residence permits. And then there is no problem that the rest of the Chamber is out of play and cannot carry out its controlling task. So this is all very hypocritical. In this way we do not deal with any matter that is at the disadvantage of Dutch society. I mentioned all those Syrian terrorists getting residence permits. We only deal with matters which are at the disadvantage of foreigners and which are brought forward by Refugee Work. That's impossible, isn't it? So I have a bad feeling about this debate. I have no further questions for the Secretary of State and I can leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u12	I'll just leave all the accusations on Mr Fritsma's behalf. I shall deal with the substantive arguments. That is why I am also asking Mr Fritsma about the asylum procedure. Mr Fritsma is well aware that if an asylum procedure is concluded, it will be checked once again to ensure that Article 3 of the ECHR is applied and that people can safely return to the country of origin. If it turns out that this gentleman is being picked up directly from the airport, sent to prison and sentenced to life two months later, does Mr Fritsma think that there is a causality between the fact that he has gone through an asylum procedure here and that he is then arrested again and sentenced to life imprisonment? Has Article 3 been properly considered in his view, namely whether he has to fear for his safety when he returns?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u13	This is not the case at all. I have listened carefully to the answers given by the Secretary of State and no link has been demonstrated or established between the rejection of his application for asylum here and what happened in Bahrain. What you do is purely speculative. You say the IND made a mistake, but that is not at all the issue. I haven't seen a start of evidence myself that the IND made a mistake. Normally refugees work leaks a file with certain pieces, but I haven't even seen that. If you have the file and can prove 'look what a scandal, look what went wrong', I would like to discuss it with you, provided, of course, that we are going to discuss all the other individual cases where things may have gone wrong, such as terrorists who get residence permits, but that is never mentioned. The one-way traffic really bothers me in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u14	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u15	To answer Mr Voordewind's question, that is not what he is asking. I don't have any proof that anything went wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u16	Apart from the content of the case itself, we should not talk about it, but we have facts here that we know. The man was arrested and sentenced to life imprisonment. Surely Mr Fritsma can't deny that he didn't end up in a safe home? If we had done that test in a thorough and well-considered way, wouldn't this gentleman have gone straight to jail? Why does Mr Fritsma deny the procedure we should go through so that people are not sent back to unsafe areas, non-refoulement? You are tearing up the Refugee Convention, I know that, but you will still have to follow a procedure for asylum policy somewhere?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u17	Well, it doesn't happen often, but I would like to point out the answers of the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State has just described in detail how the review of such a case works. He also made it clear that it was not established at all that there is a causal link between the asylum motive, what happened in this case and what is happening in Bahrain. You're standing here accusing IND employees of blundering on the basis of air, and you shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u18	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u19	Once again, Mr President, I think this debate is a waste of time, but I am standing here because it is a very ugly form of hypocrisy that we are talking about this case now, but we are never talking about a lot of other things, which are seriously at the disadvantage of the Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u20	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Grothuizen, on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. An asylum seeker from Bahrain has been deported and, following a process of concern from various sides, sentenced to life imprisonment and a number of colleagues have established that, and the Secretary of State also gave that to Mr That doesn't feel right. The question that arises is whether this rejection of his application for asylum was justified and whether the Netherlands acted correctly. But that is also a question that we cannot really answer today. As a room, we don't deal with individual matters. We cannot repeat the asylum procedure or the course of justice here. At the same time, however, as a Chamber, we must be able to control the Secretary of State in the performance of his legal duties. This implementation is largely a matter of taking decisions in individual cases. I think it's a pretty tricky split. I don't care about that. My first question is about the gap. How does the Secretary of State see his role when it comes to information to the Chamber in the performance of those legal powers? Of course we can talk about the procedures and they have been well described by the Secretary of State, I think, but the proof of the pudding is how they are applied and how it is implemented in practice. Don't independent supervisors and inspections play a major role in informing the Chamber, so that we can stay away from the case but still control the Secretary of State? I'd like a response. A number of general questions on the role of information in the asylum procedure. I understand there's a separate department at the IND that collects country information. The question is whether this information is always up-to-date. How is it analysed and weighed? How does that information, if there is, end up with the final decision-makers? Do you have to ask or does the department spontaneously come up with alerts so that people know they have to pay attention to something, for example about a change of circumstances in a particular country? Please provide an explanation and any improvement that the Secretary of State sees. There are cases where questions arise after an eviction. More colleagues have talked about it. If there is a concrete and substantiated signal, the Secretary of State must investigate it. If the Secretary of State finds it unfounded, he will reject it. But what exactly does "concrete and substantiated" mean? Can the Secretary of State explain that? Is my assumption that there is "unfunded" relatively little control on the judgment? It seems to me that the Secretary of State is the only and last instance. Mr. Chairman. I hear the Secretary of State say that in future he will call for specific attention to be given to information about returners in official messages. If I understand correctly, this was the message from Sudan. I think that's good. But I also think that, and I shall come back to the issue with which it all started, it is good to have the Justice and Security Inspectorate look at this matter, of course not at the course of justice, but at the action of the IND. I think the question is: what information was available now, what information could have been used, what information was used and did it all go well? I think that's all we can learn from that. Mr. Chairman. One final question. In the written questions I asked, I asked about the added value of an interpreter in the presentation that happens when someone is deported. Honestly, I couldn't quite follow the answer. The Secretary of State writes that he does not see anything to have an interpreter there, because observation is the only reason for being present at that presentation. But how exactly can you perceive if you don't get what's happening right? I would like to make another comment on that point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u22	The debate is clear. The Secretary of State insists that he has acted lawfully. Part of the Chamber says things have gone wrong here. Let's just say we don't have any certainty about what's going on. But it may be that a horrible mistake has been made and that someone is now in prison for life and being tortured. What does D66 do to correct that possible error?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u23	I think that's why we're here. We all have the feeling that at least some people have that feeling; I have that feeling that something may have gone wrong here, as you say, but that we are not quite sure. That is why we are holding the debate. That is why I think it is right that the inspection should have seen what could have been done better. I'm afraid it's very difficult to find a solution to the situation that this gentleman is in right now. That is what I heard the Secretary of State say in his answers in the first term. I don't think you can do much more than use diplomatic channels to see if you can improve that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u24	So, Mr Groothuizen wants the inspection to look at the matter again. And he says the Secretary of State must use diplomatic means to see if this man can be helped. Is Mr Groothuizen satisfied with this commitment or does he say: no, we really need to use this debate to get the Secretary of State to step up? What does Mr Groothuizen want the Secretary of State to do in concrete terms after the disturbing reports we have all seen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u25	I'm not a diplomat, so I don't know exactly how these things work, but of course you can't go into a sovereign country from the Netherlands and get someone out of prison. I think you can at most establish that we have concerns. I believe that these are widely shared concerns. Then we convey those concerns. In what way exactly is that done, I leave it to the cabinet. That's not my role or my expertise. But I think it is a good thing that we convey those concerns. I think it is often the case that this has some influence on what happens next.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u26	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u27	Can Mr Groothuizen give a more precise explanation of what he intends to do with the investigation into this matter? What's to come of that? Is that meant for the future? Or could that still influence this case, if it were up to Mr Groothuizen? What should the inspection do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u28	If something has potentially gone wrong in a particular case, I think you are always doing an investigation to learn from it for the future. Unfortunately, mistakes are often impossible to fix, and in this case, I think, that is even more complicated. If it's wrong, I don't know; it's going to have to prove that and maybe we'll never find out, then it might be very difficult to fix that. I think that the added value of an investigation by the inspection should be found, in particular, in the aspects of information: do we have this properly dealt with in the procedure or do we need any measures to prevent this kind of problem in the future? I say this in the knowledge that 100% guarantee is never possible and that prevention is probably not possible either. But I do think we should always try to do the best we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u29	Mr Groothuizen, together with our colleague Mr Voordewind, has already put 27 written questions to the Secretary of State. All 27 have been answered as well. I have concluded that those answers make it clear that nothing changes. The policy just stays the way it is. It's annoying and nasty that this has happened, but the policy is not changing. I would like to ask whether Mr Grothuizen agrees with me. And if so, I ask him what we're going to do to get what he, Mr Voordewind, Mr Van Dijk and others, want anyway. Because I was just telling Mr Voordewind that I thought he would table a motion to ask the Secretary of State for something concrete. I do not think Mr Grothuizen is making a motion either. Of course, he's free to do that, but what are we going to do to get the Secretary of State to come our way?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u30	But I think Mr Van Ojik is confusing two things. I want the Secretary of State to put the inspection to work to see what might have gone wrong here. I believe that Mr Van Dijk has tabled a motion on this too. I would like to put another motion to that effect, but that does not seem to me to be very useful. For the rest, Mr Van Ojik talks about 'policy'. And I do not know very well what he means by that, but in my opinion, this is the policy and procedure that we assess every application for asylum on its merits and that the IND does so carefully. And that we then have a course of justice that people can use, is an sich fine. In my view, the question is: is everything in order within this procedure, which focuses on the provision of information? In my view, this is not so much a question of policy, but rather of policy implementation. And I think that's what all the questions are all about. Maybe I did not understand Mr Van Ojik's question correctly, but I do not see the policy aspect as such.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u31	Well, you can of course... I mean, I myself have tabled motions saying, for example, that we should use our diplomatic posts more to protect people who have been expelled as much as possible. That's never gonna work out for a hundred percent, but you can do better than that. Anyway, that just happens to be what I think is important. Mr Grothuizen believes that independent research is very important. The Secretary of State just said in his answer to the questions: I'm not going to do that, because I've already done something. Mr Voordewind then said: well, that looks very much like the butcher who approves his own meat. I'm curious about something. This is the second term, so this is the time to do something. That is my question: what is Mr Grothuizen going to do to achieve what he very much wants, namely an independent investigation which the Secretary of State has already said he is not going to do? Because that is what I believe we have this debate for. I hope my question is clear now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u32	Yes, that question is crystal clear. I think it's two different things again. I told you, I really want the Secretary of State to do that investigation. And should the Secretary of State persist, I note that there is a motion from Mr Van Dijk asking for it. That motion has all my sympathy. You are making another comment. You say, "I have tabled a motion myself. Get a good look at that. That motion is more at the back." I only have two problems with that, at least I have two questions. Firstly, is that really feasible in the end, especially when it comes to the countries we are talking about? And the second question: I think it's a bit like putting the horse behind the cart. I would prefer to avoid situations like this. Then I think you should focus on the front of the road.What goes wrong there and what could possibly be better there? Repair any problems instead of repairing them at the back. So in that sense, I don't think it's the most logical step.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u33	Finally, Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u34	Yes, to avoid any misunderstanding: my interruption was not so much meant to hear from Mr Groothuizen now whether he is going to vote in favour of my motion, because I am also very curious about the reaction of the Secretary of State. However, I was curious to see what this debate we have here tonight should bring in its vision. But I am very pleased to see that what Mr Van Dijk is asking for must come out at least. That was my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u35	Yes. Mr Voordewind has also asked for this. That would be my move. And I understand that Mr Van Dijk agrees. Actually, you do. I do not believe that Mr Fritsma thinks so, but we still think that the inspection within the possibilities and limitations that exist should look again at this matter in order to see what lessons we can draw from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u36	Thank you, Mr. Groothuizen. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Becker on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm standing here tonight with the greatest inconvenience. It is not politically appropriate to talk about an individual asylum case, which the Secretary of State cannot speak about in public. The VVD has therefore not supported the request for this debate, but I have decided to take part in it in order to make a few brief comments. A few general remarks on my part. An asylum seeker is not just sent back in the Netherlands. In accordance with carefully agreed procedures, all safety developments in a country are involved in the assessment by the IND. Where an asylum seeker makes it plausible that, in the light of his or her individual claim, there is a real risk of a degrading or inhumane treatment upon return, asylum shall be granted. Apparently, the IND concluded in this case that this was not the case. Why exactly, the Secretary of State cannot explain in public because of the privacy of the data subject. And that's a good thing. It is not up to politics to interfere with individual asylum procedures. That's what we have the judge in the Netherlands for. If the conclusion of the full process of IND and judge is that a person is not entitled to asylum, then so be it. After all, we do not know what the circumstances are in an individual case or what anyone may have on their own. Mr. Chairman. So I don't need any more information on this case. I also have no reason to believe that the IND would not have followed the proper procedure. I also have no need for an independent investigation by the inspection, because once again, in the Netherlands, the judge tests. But if other parties seem to have that need, I will not lie down for that either. Hopefully that will be the last time we have a debate in this Chamber on an individual asylum issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u38	Mrs Becker uses a very formalistic attitude, but she cannot ignore the fact that there have been many publications showing how serious this matter is. Today there were reports in the NRC about this gentleman's torture. His brother got asylum in Germany. This gentleman got no asylum in the Netherlands. In fact, it's turned off and now it's stuck. Isn't that a reason for the VVD to say: we need to look carefully at this again?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u39	This is not a formalistic view because it would suit me; this is true of all asylum matters. The VVD thinks we shouldn't be discussing them in this house. You are basing yourself on a news report, but you have also heard that the Secretary of State says: I cannot go into the background, the factual circumstances and the causality that would exist between the facts that are now taking place in that country and the asylum case that has taken place here in the Netherlands. I can only agree with that. You can try to trick me into going into the matter anyway, but I won't. I do not think this is appropriate in the debate and I am not cooperating in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u40	But it's not that black and white. On the contrary, this is a matter for discussion. The Secretary of State has the right to take up his position, but we hear very respected MPs saying other things here, let alone the media, who come with serious reports. Then there is not much wrong with saying as a party: okay, here may have been a carelessness; let's look at that again. What's against that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u41	I think there are only respected MPs here, but there is also a very respected Secretary of State here. He's got information. There's information at the IND that we don't have and that the media don't have. So I can't go into what you're saying right now. You say: I suspect that it is not right on the basis of those facts. The Secretary of State has all the facts and says that is not the case. We are not just discussing this today, but several sets of parliamentary questions have already been tabled on the basis of which he has also confirmed this. I trust him in that, but I have just said that if you do not have that confidence and need the inspection to look at it again, I will not lie down for it. But I do not need that because we also have a judge in the Netherlands who can check whether the IND has followed all procedures properly. The whole process of justice has gone through and this is the outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u42	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u43	Mrs. Becker is still inexcusable. Let me try again. How, then, does Mrs Becker explain that the Secretary of State, in reply to colleagues' parliamentary questions, says: yes, I am going to use diplomatic means on this matter? Why would he do that if nothing's wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u44	I think that's also a question you asked the Secretary of State. So we're gonna wait and see the answer to that. I think it is often the case that the Netherlands uses diplomatic means when there are certain cases and suspicions of human rights violations in a country. This does not necessarily have to do with an asylum procedure that has been conducted here in the Netherlands and where there is a certain outcome. So again, that causality doesn't have to be there. And since we do not know the facts, we should not make any suggestions about this either. I think we really fit modesty here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u45	Thank you, Mrs Becker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u46	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u47	Then we are done with the Chamber's input. I'll see if the Secretary of State can respond immediately. That's the case. I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u48	Thank you, Mr President. I will go through the questions in the order in which they were asked and then respond to the motions tabled. The first issue raised in Mr Voordewind's speech, and later in Mr Grothuizen's speech, was about research. I understand the questions that some of the Chamber still has on this matter, but part of it is also inherent in the asylum system and the asylum review. An asylum decision is taken by the IND on the basis of the entire file. In general, much of the information of the asylum seeker himself is so-called soft information. This does not make the information less relevant, but it does require a weighting of that information in every case. And what I already indicated in the first term: every asylum decision, such a weighting, is always a well-founded assessment of the meaning of the facts. Because of the importance of this assessment, therefore, we have it so anchored in the Dutch asylum system, there is the possibility of independent review by the judge who can review the assessment. I will continue to find it uncomfortable to have that substantive judgment of the IND and the judge reviewed in an investigation. What I indicated in the first term: I do not see any reason for it either. Nor do I have any reason, even after an analysis that we have done ourselves, to doubt the judgment given by the IND in the asylum procedure. I said in the first term that I also had the impression that Mr Voordewind's question was actually another substantive assessment. I take it from his second-term question that he also says: I understand that this cannot be done, but perhaps we can at least look at the process. We know the supervision by the Justice and Security Inspectorate of the migration chain. Within that supervision, the inspection may also examine the process in an individual case. That is therefore an assessment of the course of the proceedings, not an assessment of the substance of the review. That is how I understand Mr Groothuizen within the possibilities that exist. I have already said that I do not see enough ground in the facts before me to doubt the course of the proceedings. But in view of the question from the Chamber, I can also imagine that we should have another look at it. I therefore undertake to ask the Court of Justice and Security to investigate the progress of all proceedings in this case and to also pay attention to the information position of the IND within that process. For the sake of completeness, I note that the inspection is of course an independent supervisor itself about research questions and research design. However, I think I can say with a reasonable degree of certainty that the inspection will not find it its role to re-examine the substance of the assessment and thus take the role of the judge. As far as expectations are concerned, I do not think it should be expected that the investigation will focus on this, but I will ask the inspection to investigate the progress of all process steps in this case and to pay attention to the information position of the IND. For the sake of completeness, I also note that the inspection has no possibility to investigate abroad. That's the thing about the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u49	It's an interesting commitment. Can the Secretary of State say at what time we receive anything?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u50	No, I can't. I make you that commitment here, but it is up to the inspection to investigate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u51	Can he tell us what the possible results of the investigation are? Of course not, we all have to wait and see, and that is independent; I understand that. But can it lead to a re-examination of the case, or does the Secretary of State already say: that is out of the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u52	I can't speculate on an investigation that I won't do myself. But I just indicated that I will ask you to investigate the process. For the sake of fairness, I do not believe that this will lead to a substantive re-evaluation. I think that is the question that Mr Van Dijk is asking me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u53	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for this commitment. It was one of the reasons why I requested the interplay debate. The other colleagues have asked for the same thing, so thank you again. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if he is prepared to send this to the Chamber as soon as the inspection report arrives and to have it accompanied by his response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u54	In my view, that is just a stand-alone policy, so I do not have to admit it. The question was also whether I would like to take the place of expulsions, but I am not prepared to do so. We're just gonna do this investigation and see what comes out of it. It has also been asked whether you should not look at some countries on a limited scale at how people are going after return. I have already explained in detail in the first period why I do not wish to do so. It wouldn't make any sense. At the heart of the asylum system is the ex ante review. If people have to fear and can support it and have legitimate reasons for it, asylum protection is the issue. At the moment that story is not there and so the decision is 'no asylum protection', I find it illogical to start monitoring how people end up doing afterwards. That would assume that the ex ante review was not good. As I said in the first period, the principle of the benefit of the doubt applies here, just in the everyday assessments. So I find it really illogical and for that reason I would not go along with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u55	We have had this discussion before. My motion is about that, too. The Secretary of State will come up with that later. I honestly do not understand this answer. The Secretary of State himself says every time: it is, of course, always about an assessment. It may have been done very carefully, but we know from real life that it sometimes goes wrong, not from paper, but from real life. No one's ever wanted it or expected it, but it's gonna go wrong anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u56	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u57	Whether, by using your diplomatic posts, you can offer protection to people who are so totally unexpectedly and unintentionally and unexpectedly the victims of imprisonment, torture, detention. That's all we're asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u58	It's not all you ask, because this goes on. The essence is: at the moment we have established in the Netherlands that in our opinion someone has nothing to fear, it is really a strange figure to follow people. By "we," I mean not only that we or the IND have established that, but that someone has also had the opportunity to have the case examined by the judge and that the judge has also established that. I have said it to Mr Van Ojik many times before: in contrast, we would find it strange if authorities of a third country in the Netherlands came to see how Dutch people are doing in the Netherlands. That's a really weird guy. The essence of the system is that it is really black and white and that it is in the Netherlands that we check whether someone has the right to protection. If that protection isn't there, we're not gonna test again afterwards. There are a lot of facts tied together here today. The fact is that a newspaper says that someone in Bahrain has been put in jail and that someone has been evicted from the Netherlands, but finding causality is something other than putting all the facts side by side and saying that they are always automatically related to each other. This will always play a role in any monitoring process and therefore we will never be behind... Well, never: that often means we won't be able to find out the truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u59	Where to start? It goes wrong sometimes. Whether there is causality, wrong procedures or good procedures is, frankly, totally irrelevant to the person who happens to it. In the case of this gentleman from Bahrain, I think that's clear. The question then is: could we have prevented this from happening in any way by deploying our diplomatic posts? We have these posts all over the world and they stand up for human rights everywhere. This is a core task of Dutch foreign policy. Now I ask for them to stand up for the human rights of the people who have been expelled by the Netherlands. And then the Secretary of State says: no, we can't, because if they wanted to do that to us in the Netherlands, we wouldn't accept that either. We don't torture people. We don't throw people in prison without a trial. We do not take reprisals against family members of people who have applied for political asylum. That comparison, Madam President, makes absolutely no sense!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u60	I would point out what I said in the first term. It's not like we're always sitting still. In this case too, as outlined in the first term, we have, in response to media reports, in which a possible link was made with the Netherlands, conveyed our concerns to the Bahraini authorities. We also continue to emphasise the issue of human rights and the issue of the right to fair trial in liaison with the Bahraini authorities. But it is really different from what Mr Van Ojik is asking, namely a kind of structural monitoring mechanism. If we proceed with this, we would have doubts about the way in which we have set up our own asylum system, our asylum procedures and all the guarantees that are in it in the Netherlands. I mention the guarantee that you can object after the intention to make a decision, that you can appeal and that you can appeal. That is where the safeguards lie, including the substantive decision. But if that is established in law, then we have established in the Netherlands that there is no right to asylum protection in any case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u61	No, ma'am! Ma'am, you're not participating in the debate and you'll have to hold back for a while. Mr Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u62	I find it quite amazing what is happening here, because the Secretary of State himself says that there is no reason to think that a mistake has been made here. Now left-wing parties are asking for an investigation and the Secretary of State agrees with that! What's this? The Secretary of State says that we cannot always deal with individual cases in the Chamber. But does he think that's gonna stop if he gives an immediate commitment to an investigation at the first best individual case dealt with here? That's impossible, isn't it? That's how you, Secretary of State, keep walking all over you, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u63	No, because I am very keen that, as far as I am concerned, it is not a question of redefining the substantive assessment, because I consider that to be reserved for the courts. I have said that I have no reason to doubt whether the procedure has gone properly, but I would ask the inspection to make that clear to the Chamber once again. I very much agree with Mr Fritsma when he says that there is at least a somewhat uncomfortable debate when many questions are asked about an individual case. I said that at the beginning, and I also argued why I cannot and will not go into individual dossiers here in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u64	It is not just an uncomfortable debate, it is hypocrisy at the top! We're getting an investigation into this case right now. I took a list of Syrian terrorists, all of whom received a residence permit. For example, the Syrian who was found in De Balie. That Mr. Aziz has done horrible things, but he's got a residence permit. That Syrian who stabbed three random people in The Hague received a residence permit. Bergen op Zoom, two Syrian asylum seekers, suspected of being involved in terrorist crimes: residence permit received.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u65	Mr. Fritsma...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u66	I can go on for a while. Why the hell isn't there an investigation into this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u67	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u68	How is it possible that these people have been granted a residence permit? Then I can also say: what went wrong with the IND? How did these people get through the screening? Why did they get a residence permit? What did the IND miss? That way we can keep going! What this Secretary of State is doing is to go along with a selective, hypocritical outrage, which only amounts to one-way traffic. It's horrible!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u69	That is what you said in your first term. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u70	Then you should also look at this sort of thing! If you have an investigation into these cases, you should do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u71	No, Mr. Chairman. The essence is also that I will at least not focus the research on the substantive assessment, but on the process steps that have been taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u72	Finally, Mr Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u73	Let us look at these trial steps in the Syrian terrorists too! How'd it go with the screening? How is it possible they went through the screening? They've been identified as terrorists who slaughtered people! There's been a Syrian terrorist here who stabbed three people in The Hague. How is it possible that they got through the screening? Let's take a look at that, shall we?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u74	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u75	Shall we look at the process steps on all these issues, too? And don't go along with it all the time in matters that are only addressed by Left and Refugee Work, because that is hypocritical.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u76	In any case, if new information pops up, if there is cause for concern, that standard is considered by the IND, also with the intention of learning from it again for the future. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Dijk asked me if I personally think that a major mistake has been made here. I'll just mention it one more time; I just said it. I keep repeating what I said: that causality is really impossible to establish. Mr Van Dijk also asked not to deport to Sudan and Afghanistan. I don't see any ground for that either. In these countries, the human rights situation is fragile, but it can be justified by a careful assessment in each asylum case, including judicial review. Therefore, I do not think that there is a need for a general stop-off. Mr Van Dijk also asked whether the quality of decision-making was under pressure from staff shortages. No, on the contrary, I'd say. That insinuation is far from my point of view. On the contrary, the IND did not work less carefully to accelerate in response to rising stocks. Of course not, I'd like to say. By the way, it is also proof that if they had, we probably wouldn't have had any accumulated stocks and longer waiting times. Every asylum case is carefully examined and dismissed by the IND. Mr. Chairman. I believe that I have already discussed in detail the question of whether we are going to make an active effort to get the person concerned back to the Netherlands. I have already answered that question in the first period. We are not taking any action now that he is not of Dutch nationality and the Netherlands simply does not have the jurisdiction to take such action. Mr Grothuizen's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u77	Very briefly, Mr. Van Dijk. I have not limited the number of interruptions, but it is not unlimited either. So really short questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u78	I thought we had a debate without restrictions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u79	That's not how we do it. You know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u80	Question 6. Written questions Grotehuizen and Voordewind. Is the Netherlands currently undertaking diplomatic steps to clarify this matter? Answer: yes. That really is a very short answer and that raises a lot of questions. So the Netherlands is currently taking diplomatic steps to clarify this matter. What do you do? And why do you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u81	What I reported to you later. If there's such a media report, let's see what's going on over there. This has been the subject of contacts with the Bahraini authorities and, in any case, the diplomatic contacts have transferred the concern and asked for guarantees to ensure that there is a fair process there. That commitment of the Dutch government will then be transferred.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u82	But does the Secretary of State understand that this at least raises the question of whether the Secretary of State is aware that something has gone wrong here? Otherwise, he wouldn't have any reason to go after this, would he? Does he recognize that there may have been a mistake here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u83	No, because in any case, fair justice and the safeguarding of human rights in general are the main points of foreign policy in the Netherlands. If there are reports, we will therefore draw attention to them in diplomatic contacts, regardless of the history of a foreign court case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u84	I would like to come back to the little debate on the interruption which has just taken place with Mr Fritsma and the Secretary of State, because I can imagine his feeling. Isn't double standards here? Are there any other cases in which a permit has been granted that you can question? Now my predecessor, Malik Azmani, has already raised those concerns with the Secretary of State. I believe that Syrians, too, should be considered whether there may be a history of terrorism, even if a permit has already been granted, the so-called 1F project. So that too is definitely being kept under review again. Could the Secretary of State confirm that so that we can get these facts straight here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u85	That's right. In general, every signal is responded to, and this is particularly true for Syrians who have come to the Netherlands in recent years. Mr Groothuizen asked how I see my role, including in the accountability to the Chamber. I can actually see it in front of me as I have done, namely, by at least explaining policy: what is it like? But I would also like to make the point that I cannot go into individual dossiers, even in the knowledge that the substantive assessment, if people do not agree with the decision taken, lies in the possibility of independent judicial review. Then there's the country information. Within the IND is a Team Research and Expertise Land and Language. This is a team of country experts who are also in good contact with Foreign Affairs, who have been trained to collect information outside the State Department's posts and to indicate from a multitude of public sources, for the purposes of asylum assessments. In doing so, they have an important role to play. They fulfill it every day. Frankly, I don't have the right to look for improvement points right away. The team is available to everyone and is frequently consulted every day in many asylum matters. That is also good because, as I have often pointed out to the Chamber in the past, official messages are not static either. These are made at some point and after a certain period of time, after two or three years, there will be another. But in that intervening period, there is never only an act on a post, but always on the basis of everything that is available: the post and any information that has become available after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u86	A quick question, Mr. Groothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u87	Yes, Mr. Chairman, a brief question. It's a good thing we have that department at the IND, but do I understand from the Secretary of State that they really work demand-driven? In other words, should the person who makes the decision really actively approach them? Or do these people also say to the decision-makers: pay attention to land A or B, because we see a change in the circumstances, so were you aware of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u88	Both. In principle, every decision-maker knows that this team exists and that he can go there. At the moment the team has new information, it is also actively shared in the organisation. Mr. Chairman. An interpreter for presentations is not on the agenda, as I mentioned in the written answers. We give presentations as a way of asking countries of origin to identify and, above all, to issue a replacement travel document. It is important that this should only take place at the stage where a person is eligible for return. It is not rare that, even at the stage of forced return, we are always involved in arranging a replacement travel document. But that means that at that time it is already established in law that a person is not entitled to asylum in the Netherlands. In this context, of course, it is not appropriate to indicate that we do not fully trust the country of origin and send an interpreter along with us. It has already been established at that stage that there is no basis for fear. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the motions. I will try to go through that briefly, because I have actually already given a lot of the explanation. The first motion, the motion in part No. 1, by Mr Van Dijk. I leave it to the commitment I have just made. That is why I dissuade her, but also dissuade her because she finds that the principle of non-refoulement has been violated. I have already argued in detail in this debate that this causality is not given to me. The same applies to the motion in part No. 2. For the same reason, as I have just indicated, I do not even recommend that we should have jurisdiction to bring this person back and also because I do not think we have violated the principle of non-refoulement. Then the motion to part No. 3. In fact, I have just argued in this Chamber why I do not support this and therefore reject the motion. It was about monitoring. The motion in part No. 4 concerns registration. The investigation requested should, if I understand the motion correctly, be an examination of the substance of the IND decision. Again, for that we have the judicial review in the Netherlands. An investigation by the inspection may be obvious if there is reason in a case to look at errors in the process et cetera, but that is really different from what the motion asks. The motion calls for investigation in any future situation, without weighing the facts. I therefore also advise against that motion. Mr. Chairman. I therefore believe that I have answered all the questions and motions put by the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u89	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-10.u90	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I thank the Secretary of State, I thank the Members of Parliament, I thank the people who have followed this debate from the gallery and I thank the staff.
