ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the VAO Open House Election Assistance. I welcome the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport. And a warm welcome to the Members of Parliament, the support and the people who follow the debate here in a different way. I give the floor first to Mrs Ploumen, who speaks on behalf of the Labour Party. You have two minutes. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I have two motions and one question. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas women should be able to be sure of independent and non-directing choice aids in case of unwanted pregnancy;]] [[Whereas the Chamber wishes to be certain about the allocation of grant money;]] [[Calls on the Government to have an independent assessment of Siriz' compliance with the criteria for a guarantee for non-controlling assistance and to inform the Chamber of how this assessment is carried out;]] [[invites the Government to suspend the award decision until such assessment has been carried out,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Siriz claims to meet the criteria for independent and non-controlling assistance;]] [[noting that there is an administrative, financial and organizational link between Siriz and the Society for the Protection of the Unborn Child;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the conditions for granting the subsidy that it is necessary to repay it over the period when Siriz is not working independently of VBOK,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Ploumen and Mr Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32279-154]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Ploumen and Mr Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32279-155]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u3	Today I read a message that the organisation Scream for Life wants to park a bus in front of abortion centers. In that bus people want to have conversations with women who are unwantedly pregnant and who are on their way to the abortion clinic. They do so in response to the possible establishment of buffer zones. I find it very undesirable to address women at such a vulnerable moment. I also think it is a denial of the fact that women themselves are best able to decide about themselves and their own bodies. I would like a reply from the Minister and, preferably, a letter from the cabinet, because I may be a bit robbing him with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u4	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Westerveld. She speaks on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u5	Mr. Chairman. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, the choice of pregnancy is always about the importance of women. Its importance and not the importance of the organisation should be paramount. Choice aid is only independent if it is not linked to an organization with a very different interest, in this case the anti-abortion lobby. And although the Secretary of State did not answer my question in general consultation, he rightly indicated that he was not concerned with the form of organisation of private parties, such as Siriz and the VBOK. In other words, if we do not demand the form of organisation now, so before the grant of subsidies to these parties takes place, it is too late. So we must have voted on this before 6 May. If we do not do this in good time, we as the Lower House and as the government cannot guarantee the independence of choice support either. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Society for the Protection of the Unborn Child writes in its 2019 Policy Plan to investigate whether they can continue under one name with the selection support organisation Siriz;]] [[Whereas organisations wishing to influence positions on abortion cannot go hand in hand with independent and non-directive assistance;]] [[Whereas the importance of an organisation should never exceed the interests of women;]] [[Calls on the Government to grant a grant to the selection aid organisation Siriz only when it is clear that they will not continue under one name with the Society for the Protection of the Unborn Child;]] [[calls on the Government to indicate how this will be monitored and to inform the Chamber as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the responsibility and choice for carrying out or possibly breaking up pregnancy should lie with the woman;]] [[Whereas, in the case of questions and considerations concerning pregnancy, women should be able to rely on independent and non-directive assistance;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the criteria for public funding organisations providing choice assistance to pregnant women that these organisations are neither administratively, financially nor legally linked to organisations operating an anti-abortion lobby,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld, Mr Ellemeet, Mr Ploumen and Mr Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32279-156]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld, Mr Ellemeet, Mr Ploumen and Mr Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32279-157]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u6	Mr. Chairman. I've got a few points. First of all, I will discuss the administrative connection between the Society for the Protection of the Unborn Child, the VBOK, and Siriz. I would like the undertaking that the Secretary of State will inform the Chamber in the autumn as soon as there is clarity about the new administrative structure of both institutions. As I pointed out in the debate, the VVD remains very critical of the interrelationship between Siriz and VBOK. I would like to have another debate if this autumn shows that nothing has changed about this undesirable situation. Secondly, I asked for the review of this new subsidy scheme. Does the Secretary of State say in so many words that next year, around this time, he will look again at whether the subsidies that the three organisations in this open house construction are now receiving are being continued? I'd like to check that out. Finally, I would also like a response from the Secretary of State to today's news about the organisation Scream for Life. The organization has made up something new. She wants to go from buses in parking lots near abortion clinics to counseling conversations with unwanted pregnant women. Women who want to have an abortion should be free to enter an abortion clinic without being harassed. I think that the need to establish buffer zones to ensure that these women have unhindered access to abortion clinics is enough. I would therefore like to receive a response from the Secretary of State on this news. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u7	Thank you. There is another question from Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u8	Mrs Tellegen is right to say that she also wants clarity about the intertwinedness of the VBOK and Siriz, but she wants the government to give it in the autumn. Does she agree with me that we should make demands now because otherwise we're too late?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u9	No, I'm not. I have already made this very clear in the debate. All the conditions and requirements we have now imposed have been reviewed and strengthened. The requirements and conditions we have all formulated meet the three organisations that are now going to receive funding. It remains uncomfortable for my group that there is this intertwinedness. In his letter, the Secretary of State states very clearly that both organisations will discuss this with each other in the autumn. I therefore ask the Secretary of State to at least inform the Chamber about how that continues, so that we can keep our finger on the pulse.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u10	Finalizing, Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u11	If, in the autumn, it appears that both organisations continue under one heading, merge or otherwise have very far-reaching cooperation, what should the Chamber do? What would the Secretary of State do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u12	That's what I just said. Then we have a new debate, because I think this is a very undesirable situation. I also find it an uncomfortable situation. But I would like to show to the Secretary of State that I have seen his efforts, but that I will continue to follow very critically how things are going.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u13	Thank you. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Pia Dijkstra on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We discussed the choice-help talks and the organisations invited through the open house construction to hold these talks. The Secretary of State has promised that he will closely monitor whether those talks are indeed not directing and independent. After the possible reorganisation of Siriz and VBOK, because of the way in which they are connected, he will also check whether the criteria as stated in the Bergkamp/Tellegen motion are still being met. I'd like to hold the Secretary of State to that. I agree with Mrs Tellegen because I too would like to be kept informed. The Chamber wants to know what's going to come out of that and how we're going to proceed with that. Finally, I would also like to join what previous speakers have said about the bus called the scream bus, let us say. And as I have described it now, I also find it very intimidating and tasteless. It also ignores the freedom of choice of women who have themselves made a very difficult assessment before heading towards the abortion clinic door.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u15	A very short question. It's good to hear that so many colleagues are worried about that screaming bus. I hear Mrs Dijkstra say that she also finds this connection between Siriz and VBOK, and our ignorance of what that looks like in the future, uncomfortable. Of course, I share that inconvenience, but I ask her: where does she get the trust from? Because that is what I hear in her speech. Otherwise, she might be able to join our proposals to suspend the granting of subsidies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u16	I can also endorse Mrs Tellegen's remarks. We've filed the Bergkamp/Tellegen motion. It's accepted. It also requires that the independence of organisations holding selection-help interviews should not be undermined by the organisations to which such an organisation is linked. We have seen that VBOK and Siriz have withdrawn from the platform that deals with the Week of Life. They have indicated that they will not do such expressions. Furthermore, we will have to look at how the organisations wish to proceed, and this will be announced in the autumn. And I have stated that I assume that the Secretary of State will inform us about this and that we will see if a new situation has arisen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u17	Finalizing, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u18	And then Mrs Dijkstra agrees with me. Imagine that Siriz would still be organizedly linked to that screaming bus that is of the organisation Scream for Life, then that would be undesirable and then the subsidy must be stopped and recovered. Well, I guess she is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u19	It's really weird that I'm gonna explain this right now, but scream for life isn't a VBOK. So these are two different organisations. And it's good to make that distinction anyway. That is why I think we should look closely at how Siriz and VBOK proceed together. And I have already said during the AO: if VBOK and Siriz decide to become one again, they simply have to meet the criteria as far as I am concerned. That's what the whole organization has to do. But if they separate themselves from each other, then of course VBOK has a different responsibility and a different position.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u20	Mrs Dijkstra expressed herself in most stark terms about the support bus of the Scream for Life Foundation, but she herself indicated that it is not linked to today's topic, in the sense that it is not about funding for choice aid organisations. Is it not simply the freedom of an organisation to bring out alternatives to abortion if they feel that it is often inadequate? If that's what women want, shouldn't women choose to go into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u21	In any case, I believe that the buffer zones proposed by the VWS Minister should be put in place quickly. And then such a bus will have to stick to those buffer zones. I wouldn't want to see them on the doorstep of an abortion clinic. As I said just now, women entering the abortion clinic already have a whole process behind them. As far as I'm concerned, Scream for Life is... We do not have any bans on such organisations, but they can do so in their own places. You don't have to do that on the doorstep of an abortion clinic. I find that extremely distasteful, as I have already mentioned. You call that "scribbly words." I have far worse words for it, but I think it is unparliamentary and I do not use it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u22	In conclusion, Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u23	Rounding up. Now Mrs Dijkstra is talking about the abortion clinic door, but I don't know if those are the plans. I think the reaction is correct: no longer actions on the doorstep, but at a location somewhere in the area. It is absolutely the freedom of people to use it or not. My question is not to make the biggest and toughest judgments without knowing exactly what aid is offered here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u24	Well, that's obvious, I think, because the organization Scream for Life itself has always said: abortion is murder. Then I don't have to wonder how these conversations are going. I have spoken of a stark contradiction, because we have had a balanced debate on the importance of non-sending assistance or choice assistance talks. That cannot be reconciled. That is why I raised this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u25	There is another question from Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u26	I just got confused by a few sentences by Mrs Dijkstra. How does she view a possible merger or a merger between Siriz and VBOK? Does it consider it justified if these organisations receive public subsidies after a merger?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u27	We are talking about the following question: can Siriz have elective assistance talks with women who want to be helped if they are unwanted pregnant and consider abortion? Quality criteria apply. We added a few more criteria. You can't say on the one hand that you're having non-directing conversations and on the other hand that you're an anti-abortion organization. If Siriz and VBOK decide to go forward as one organisation, they will do so themselves; none of us are going to do so, then the whole organisation must meet these criteria if it is to continue to be able to conduct those selection help talks in accordance with the criteria we have established. That's the consequence. I'd like to see that established.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u28	Very brief, finalizing. There has been a debate, Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u29	Yeah, but I do have the impression that I'm hearing other things now. If these two go together, an anti-abortion lobby and a decision-making organisation, then we cannot insist here that it is about independent choice aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u30	That's exactly what I'm saying. If they choose to do this, they can no longer be an anti-abortion lobby, at least not in their expressions. It cannot be the case that this is the starting point in the selection help discussions. I trust the Secretary of State will monitor that very closely. The inspection is also involved. We need to know. I'd like to hold the Secretary of State to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u31	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the Chamber's term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u32	I give the floor to the Secretary of State of the United States of America. A single question has been asked. We'd also like to get an opinion on the motions. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Four motions have been tabled, the first two by Mrs Ploumen and Mrs Westerveld. The operative part of the first motion shall be as follows: 154, does not call for surprise; it was already announced in general consultation that the award decision should be suspended until the assessment of Siriz has taken place. It won't be surprising that I'm deceiving this motion. I am not going to suspend that award decision, because Siriz, as I made clear in the AO, meets all the requirements we make in the open house. They have shown that they comply, and we are going to ensure in a lot of ways that that is properly controlled, through the IGJ and through a committee of independent experts. They are completely transparent about the values. They've modified their website. They have withdrawn from the organization for the Week of Life. As far as I am concerned, therefore, they fully meet the requirements. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u34	Thank you. The motion in part No. 154 is not recommended. The motion in part No. 155.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u35	The motion in part No. 155 is somewhat in line with that, because it asks the cabinet to recover the subsidy at the moment that Siriz does not appear to be separate from VBOK. I have also said very clear things about this in the AO. I do not think I can put it more beautifully than Mrs Tellegen and Mrs Dijkstra, who say: we are checking whether the applicant party meets the criteria, the strict selection criteria that we set. We have done so in this case, and Siriz will do so. If it turns out, even in the course of this year, that is the rule of the game, that they do not apply the criteria, that they cannot be followed, that they cannot meet them, then there is reason to have an intrusive conversation first, and if it remains so to stop or withdraw the subsidy. That's the rules of the game. But we're not gonna say right now: if it turns out they're merging, we're gonna pull it back. Then we are going to judge it on our own merits; I think Mrs Tellegen said that. When VBOK merges with Siriz and thereby fully conforms to how Siriz behaves, there is another situation. We must assess them on our own merits. I'd like to discourage this motion. In the slipstream of this answer, I would also like to say, in reply to Mrs Tellegen's question, that I naturally want to inform the Chamber at the end of the year about developments, about the merger process or other structural changes in both organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u36	Thank you. This raises a question for Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u37	A quick question. Thanks to the Secretary of State. I do not really understand his judgment, because the motion formulates what he says; it might make it a little more specific. But the case before us is about Siriz and is about the connection with VBOK. We just agree on that. We also agree that if Siriz remains connected to VBOK, which has a certain position, which is an anti-abortion club, those choice-help talks cannot take place with government subsidies. We also agree that if it is, the money must be returned. It's just in that motion. I don't understand the judgment "dissuade" so well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u38	The motion simply states black-and-white: payback over the period when Siriz does not function independently of VBOK. Even now, they've sounded pretty much alike. I'm not denying that either. I take note of that. Of course, I don't have a hand in it at all. They're two private organizations. Despite the fact that there is a considerable intertwinedness, I think that the majority of the House considers that Siriz, as an applicant, meets all the requirements, even though there is a connection with VBOK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u39	Finalizing, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u40	At the same time, however, the Secretary of State has stated that he is also a problem with this intertwinedness. I do not see what Mrs Tellegen suggests, that VBOK distanced itself from her position. Easter and Pentecost will fall in one day.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u41	The latter will be complicated. But I think there is a lot of speculation in what Mrs Ploumen says. Let us first look at the direction it is developing in terms of the structure of both organisations. But even now, despite the intertwinedness that exists today and which creates uncertainty, I agree with Mrs Ploumen that Siriz fully meets all the requirements. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u42	Thank you. The motion in part No. 155 is not recommended. The motion in part No. 156.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u43	The motion in part No. 156 actually says the same thing in slightly different terms as the motion in part No. 154. For the same reason, I'd like to dissuade them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u44	The motion in part No. 156 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u45	In the motion in part No. 157 asks Mrs Westerveld to add an additional criterion: there may be administrative, financial and legal links to organisations operating an anti-abortion lobby. I believe that we have drawn up an enormous range of criteria. We're setting the bar high. Those criteria state... I have them here; I can read them if Mrs Westerveld needs them. One of the criteria is: an organisation that wants to be eligible for public funding must not be directing and must fully respect the will of the woman, of the requesting party. As far as I am concerned, we should not add any criteria, so I should also like to advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u46	Thank you. The motion in part No. 157 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u47	We're gonna get a bit of a crazy situation. We don't think of this. In the VBOK's policy plan, the intention is to continue with Siriz under one name, i.e. to merge. What if that intention comes out of the policy plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u48	I have just promised, in response to a question from Mrs Tellegen, that I will inform the Chamber. In any case, I will inform the Chamber in the autumn of this year about how this is developing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u49	Thank you. Finalizing, Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u50	But then the grant has already been awarded. If we haven't made pre-conditions for an organisation and then, on the basis of requirements that the organisation meets, can we then say later in that year: we haven't set that requirement in advance, but we now think that something is happening that we don't approve, so we withdraw the grant? Is that okay with you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u51	I have already said once again that, as far as I am concerned, Siriz, like the other two organisations eligible for funding, meets all the requirements, even at this stage, despite being intertwined with VOBK. That's my point of view. If there are any new developments in the structure, I'll inform the Chamber. You can also expect me to keep my finger on the pulse during that process or to be broken by criteria. That conversation is not necessarily going to take place once a year. If, for example, I believe, on the basis of a complaint or otherwise, that an organisation is not eligible, so is the other two organisations, if they do not meet the criteria, then you may appeal to me, but I will also be very vigilant.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u52	Thank you. No, Mrs Westerveld, interruptions go in two. Did you also answer all the questions asked?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u53	No, at least I hadn't answered the question about the bus. I get the question. It's also up-to-date news. Parliamentary questions have also been asked to the Minister of VWS, Minister De Jonge, about demonstrations on abortion clinics. I think it would be prudent if this aspect were taken into account in the answer to these questions, how this is weighted overall. Otherwise, I'm gonna say something about the bus separately. Then the Minister will answer questions about demonstrations around abortion clinics. I propose that I contact my colleague, the VWS Minister, and ask him to include this in the reply. I promise you, therefore, that you will receive a careful answer to the question concerning buses, and I will tell everyone who asked that question. I think I owe another answer to Mrs Tellegen. She asked whether there would be an annual review of the eligibility of an organisation for funding. That's the structure we've turned it off. The Committee of Independent Experts checks: have the organisations that have used the grant met the criteria; has that gone well in the past year? If these organisations have no other structure and they can pass the test of that committee, then that could be a way forward for another grant if that organisation wants to continue. We also believe that if organisations have proven themselves and deliver good quality, it is desirable that there should be some continuity of supply. But that committee checks every year. That's the plan now. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u54	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of this VAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u55	The vote on the motions will take place on Tuesday after the recess on 14 May. But I see Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u56	I mentioned in my speech 6 May. Before then, there should actually be clarity, otherwise it would not have made any sense at all for us to have tabled motions here. So I would very much like us to vote on this tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-7.u57	I shall look towards Members whether there is any objection to suggesting to the President that we vote on these motions tomorrow. That is not the case. I shall then pass on to the President Mrs Westerveld's request to vote on this tomorrow. I thank the Secretary of State and we will proceed immediately to the next VAO, the VAO Medical Prevention.
