ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is a 30-member debate on the increase in Dutch imports of palm oil. A very warm welcome to the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation and to the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water Management. Let's get started. Each of you has three minutes to speak. First, I give the floor to Mrs Kröger van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. Deforestation, land conflicts, human rights violations: what goes wrong in the production of palm oil has often been repeated in this Chamber. Dutch imports of palm oil are also increasing. We import more than 2 billion euros of palm oil products annually. Unfortunately, biofuel is a growing use of palm oil. Fortunately, new European rules are on the way to reducing the use of palm oil for biofuels. Palm oil is no longer seen as a raw material for renewable energy. But there are two risky exceptions: the extra yield of palm oil that comes from a small plantation or comes from so-called unused land may still be used. Who's really gonna check this out? Are we looking at the number of plantations before and after? Is there a check on whether land is really unused? Can the Netherlands play a proactive role within Europe in research into these plantations and in developing the high-ILUC criteria and efficient, effective and verifiable certification? But my question is also how, in Rotterdam, where most palm oil enters Europe, you will really check that palm oil meets all those tough requirements. And are we going to make similar rules for other food crops, such as soya? I am pleased that the Secretary of State writes that the Dutch consumption of palm and soya oil for biofuels will not increase. How's that gonna be secured? Another concern is the increasing use of palm oil as biokerosin. This is likely to become a growth market. How do we ensure that the biokerosin that is being refueled in the Netherlands is 100% certainly not linked to deforestation, human rights violations and land conflicts? Can the Secretary of State guarantee that mixing biokerosin will not lead to an additional demand for conventional biofuels, where we have a cap and where we want to get rid of it? What happens to the plantations that first produced for the biofuels market? And how do you prevent that palm oil from flowing to the food market and being dumped cheaply? For the food, this cabinet relies on certification through the RSPO. Unfortunately, this certification is too weak in terms of both criteria and enforcement. I have seen this too often with my own eyes in Indonesia. In the RSPO there are currently additional requirements in the form of RSPO Next. Will the Netherlands talk to producers to meet this, and will the Netherlands talk to companies about phasing out palm oil for applications that are not needed? What are the possibilities for further requirements, for example by applying some of the stricter requirements of the Renewable Energy Directive to palm oil for other purposes? What requirements can we make for companies that still finance palm oil expansion? The expansion of palm oil plantations is too often at the expense of vulnerable nature, protected species and the rights of the local population. The Netherlands makes a lot of money from palm oil, and this includes great responsibilities. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u3	Thank you. I call Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Palm oil is one of the examples of what can go wrong on a large scale if you let your food system run on the cheapest, easiest and most efficient: monocultures, large-scale deforestation and human rights violations everywhere. The Animal Party has long warned against the consequences of this huge production and import of palm oil, including biofuels. And finally, at last, Europe seems a little convinced of that too. But we have a déjà vu. Years ago, even after a great deal of pain and effort, the Chamber said that the tar sand oil from Canada is so polluting that we have to ban it from the European market. After a lot of long and hard fighting, there was a political agreement. That seemed like a success. But two doors further down in Brussels were lobbied hard for the Free Trade Agreement with Canada, which wiped that political success straight off the table. In any case, the commitment to reduce imports of palm oil for biofuel seems to be offset by the free trade agreement with Indonesia and Malaysia, which is on its feet and is being lobbied hard for. My question to the Secretary of State for IenW is: isn't her commitment completely overboard with that free trade agreement? Mr. Chairman. There is not only a problem with the incorporation of palm oil into biofuels, but also with the incorporation of palm oil seed into animal feed, the incorporation into food and the incorporation into cosmetics. That is so incredibly many applications of palm oil that are not needed. But because it's a cheap and efficient raw material, it's just put into everything. Can the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation explain how this relates to the notes of, for example, the human rights rapporteur for the right to food, Olivier De Schutter, who warns us about this highly processed food, which we do not really need but for which the whole world is being robbed? Should we not move towards a food policy based on the right to healthy and sustainable food for all? So you cannot continue to bet on it, then at least you cannot facilitate that large multinationals make money from deforestation, creating monocultures and labour exploitation in a country like Indonesia. Where's that system criticism? The Animal Party asks both leaders to focus on a significant reduction in the import of palm oil into Europe. One is about biofuels, but the other is really about the use of palm oil in food that we don't need, because it's all stuffing and shit, and has a responsibility for human rights in these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u5	Thank you. Mr Laçin of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u6	Mr. Chairman. Biofuels must be sustainable fuel. Palm oil is in no way sustainable in terms of SP. Although this debate was requested over a year ago, it is still very topical: the European Commission decided a few weeks ago to label and restrict the use of palm oil as a raw material for biofuels as 'unsustainable'. That's a good decision, the SP thinks. However, as Mrs Ouwehand has just outlined, there is a danger of free trade agreements and the lobby in Brussels. What can the Secretary of State of IenW say about that? This decision was also necessary to avoid frustrating the development of genuinely sustainable mobility and to stop pretending that we are doing well with the use of palm oil. I would like to hear from the State Secretary the confirmation that in 2018 no palm oil was used for the Dutch transport market. That wasn't the case in 2016 and 2017, so I'm assuming that didn't happen last year either. But I'd like to confirm that. However, the European Commission makes an exception to the rule: palm oil derived from plantations of a maximum size of 2 hectares remains allowed. That's disappointing, isn't it? Because how do we monitor this and prevent the import of palm oil from larger plantations into Europe? What can the Secretary of State and the Minister say about this? The European Parliament must also consider this proposal. Do these directors see any chance of achieving an overall ban and of supporting and facilitating small businesses that may be in trouble, for example through development cooperation, to launch a start-up? Mr. Chairman. Palm oil is found in many more products: bread, siege, shampoo, soap, cosmetics and so on. Almost every product of Unilever, for example, contains palm oil. We see that imports of palm oil increased significantly in the Netherlands in 2017 and that the Netherlands is the largest palm oil importer in the European Union. A leading position I'm not proud of. Do we know the consequences of this position for countries from which palm oil comes? What are we doing there? Is there anything to say about imports of palm oil in 2018 already? Mr. Chairman. I'm on the ABP, the government pension fund. On the one hand, the ABP says it wants to contribute to a sustainable world, but on the other hand invests millions in companies that deforest. What can this cabinet do about it? What influence can we have as a participant in the pension fund? Finally, Mr President. We can't, we can't, we can't, we can't look away. The consequence of our use of palm oil is deforestation of tropical rainforests, the expulsion of inhabitants and villages and other human rights violations. And local agriculture is getting in the way because palm oil is being made more. This is yet another poignant example of companies that have no regard for people and the environment as soon as profits are involved. Producers have a responsibility, but the government also has a responsibility. How is this cabinet going to drastically reduce palm oil as a raw material? Because this has to end, as far as the SP is concerned, that is clear. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u7	Thank you. I call Mrs Van Eijs on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In 1997, 97,000 km of jungle was burned down for the extraction of palm oil. This laid a blanket of black smoke all over Southeast Asia. At that time a great shock, but cutting and burning forests today is more practice than exception. Forests remaining today are still threatened by the production of wood, paper, palm oil and soya and by mining. For the production of palm oil large-scale forest is harvested in Southeast Asia, South America and Africa. I therefore see the European Union's move to stop labeling palm oil as a sustainable fuel as a step in the right direction. But I wonder if this proposal is sufficient. In the letter from the Secretary of State, I read that the Netherlands has asked critical questions about the calculation of the risk of deforestation and has advised to qualify more raw materials as possibly not sustainable. I'm afraid that didn't help. But how much support was there for this very justified position in the eyes of D66? Does the Secretary of State see opportunities to convince more countries in the future that we should close shortcuts for unsustainable palm oil and that we should also exclude other raw materials that cause deforestation? How are we, as the Netherlands, trying to make all biofuels as sustainable as possible? In the end, we must stop all the raw materials that lead to deforestation and only import 100% sustainable raw materials. That's what we need to work towards. Not only can we do this: not only as the Netherlands, but also as the government. Together with other countries, the European Union, and together with NGOs, companies and financiers, we need to address this issue. We would like to hear from the Minister what policy she is pursuing in the framework of foreign trade and development cooperation to combat deforestation. How can we help local farmers to produce truly sustainable products? How do we make production chains transparent? Fortunately, we also see companies taking responsibility. There are initiatives, such as the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil, but this initiative is already about 15 years old, and not all the parties that have closed it are still connected to it. Does the Minister see an opportunity to update this initiative? Does it see possibilities for new agreements, whereby more companies can join the company or new Unfortunately, too many banks and companies still seem to invest in projects and raw materials that cause deforestation. Last Monday, the Prime Minister, together with the Minister of Finance, received the Dutch bankers. Has there been talk of the dubious investment of these banks? Surely we should not be putting money into deforestation when we should be helping farmers to invest in sustainable production. If it has not been discussed, is the Minister prepared to urge her colleagues in the cabinet to discuss this issue with the banks? Mr. Chairman. As far as D66 is concerned, we are only trying to import 100% sustainable palm oil, in view of the interests of small farmers in the Third World and the negative effects on the living environment, in both the Amazon and the Indonesian rainforest. On the other hand, international, fair trade is a long way away, while it is important for the development of citizens. The sector needs to be helped and encouraged to make the chain sustainable and fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u9	Thank you. Mrs. Ouwehand has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u10	The criticism of the label that supposedly should guarantee the sustainability of palm oil is indeed not new. Mrs Van Eijs rightly points that out. Partly because of this, when we had that discussion under the previous cabinet, the Animal Party tabled a motion to ask the government to at least reduce imports. Reduce demand, so that there is more room for sustainability. That's what D66 was for. I wonder if the D66 Group would once again like to develop a plan of action to see how we can reduce demand and therefore import.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u11	If we reduce the demand that is mainly filled with unsustainable palm oil, this would, of course, help to reduce the import of unsustainable palm oil. So I think it's very interesting to look at alternatives. We can also think of things as a food waste to ensure that demand is reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u12	That's a positive answer. I had already tabled the motion, so if we put it to the vote after this debate as one of the solutions that we can tackle this problem, I would very much like D66's support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u13	Mrs Van Eijs, you had come to the end of your speech. Mr Amhaouch of the CDA has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u14	Mr. Chairman. The CDA is for the trade in palm oil. The reason for this 30-member debate is the increase in palm oil imports. In 2018, imports of palm oil decreased. From a European point of view, we will even be at 2014 level in 2018, but that is not the case. Trade is fluctuating, as you know. For my group, it is very important that sustainability principles are respected. The RSPO does a very good job there. The Netherlands imports 90% sustainable palm oil. In Europe, 74% of imports are sustainable. That's not nearly enough. It has to go to 100%. But to say that things aren't going well right now, the CDA is going way too far. The Netherlands strives for 100% sustainable palm oil. This can be achieved by the Dutch government including sustainable palm oil in its purchasing conditions. For example, our country still has a large number of companies in the palm oil chain that are not yet members of the RSPO. Can the Minister draw up a list of these companies and then appeal to them? Then there are the producing countries. Indonesia and Malaysia are the major palm oil producing countries. I am focusing on Indonesia at the moment, because palm oil production is a very important sector there. As many as 16 million people, I repeat: 16 million people, almost as much as in the whole of the Netherlands, earn their living in the palm oil industry. You realize the importance of this sector when you realize this is almost as many people as in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u15	Mrs. Ouwehand has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u16	I am always so surprised that the CDA, especially the party that stands up for the farmers, is so easily getting over the exploitation of local farmers when it comes to palm oil. Amnesty International points out to us that these people are, as it were, in the situation of their own. They even have to let their children cooperate and in a number of cases are even more exploited thanzzp'ers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u17	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u18	I wonder if that situation at the CDA doesn't lead to a bit more critical of the use of palm oil. Where there's no need, maybe we don't have to. Then we can bet on a local economy that will help local farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u19	Firstly, the responsibility and vision of what a country produces lies with the producing countries themselves. In this case, for example, it lies with Indonesia or Malaysia. Let's listen to them, too. I shall come back to that in my contribution. What policy are they pursuing to improve palm oil production in their country? It is also a question of focus. I have, of course, also had people pass by here who say that the land rights have not yet been secured and that all kinds of other things have not been secured. Now it is said that the Netherlands completely misses the mark, while the Netherlands imports 90% of palm oil sustainably. I know that the CDA and Mrs Ouwehand disagree about RSPO. Is that RSPO or not good enough? Some NGOs think that's good enough. That's what we agreed on. That's what we're focusing on. We find each other in the desire to go for 100% sustainable palm oil imports into the Netherlands. But to point the finger at Indonesia, Malaysia or other countries and to say that they must stop doing so immediately, we are going too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u20	If someone asks on the street if you want to buy a bike for a tenner, you don't. You also have your own responsibility as a declining country. The Netherlands makes a lot of money from it. No, we're not saying it's going well because 90% has a sustainability label. The criticism is that the sustainability label conceals enormous misery. That's not just what the Party for Animals says. CNV, FNV and Amnesty International also say that. So my question is again: if you see that the Netherlands makes a lot of money using palm oil that is not necessary, that we don't need anything, wouldn't it just be a good idea to be a little more critical and at least to reduce our contribution to this problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u21	Mrs Ouwehand is quite good at shifting the playing field every time. We have the same playing field when we talk about sustainable palm oil. Then that's for me the football field, the playing field, where I want to play the game with her. When it comes to unsustainable palm oil, without RSPO hallmark, you'll find me by your side. We must take steps to improve that percentage, which is still 10% for the Netherlands. That's where we'll find each other. You're talking about the 90%. We assume that this is sustainable palm oil. There are a number of parties at the table, including NGOs. Then we are not going to say: that is not necessary. Why isn't that necessary? It is a meaningful product that is being applied. We also make meaningful products in this country that we export all over the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u22	It's hard for me. On the one hand, I understand that Mr Amhaouch would very much like to stop the illusion that we have covered it all up with a certification system that is so wrong and has so many problems. We in the Netherlands are taking advantage of this huge billion-dollar trade. Reality is just different. I'll say the RSPO is a step in the right direction. Sure. But it is not good enough, because the problems are just very big in Indonesia, Malaysia and the countries that are now emerging in palm oil production. It's about governance. It's about land rights violations. It's about child labour. It's about deforestation. It's about endangered species.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u23	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u24	It is big and poignant, so Mr Amhaouch, recognizing that 90% now has RSPO, recognizing that the RSPO itself has now introduced an additional label to make it a higher step, wouldn't I agree that we should strive for higher standards for palm oil? That 90% RSPO just isn't good enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u25	I think we've agreed on something we did find. Mrs Kröger herself says that 90% is a step in the right direction. That's step one. We want to go from 90% to 100% first. We want Europe to go from 74% to 100%. Then we are quite open to other certification requirements if we as the Netherlands and the sector can agree on this together with Indonesia. Indonesia is a country of 200 million inhabitants, where 16 million people depend on that sector. If you want to put that country aside for a while and decide for yourself what RSPO is and what is good enough, we will not do so. I'm gonna take a look at numbers. Europe, not only the Netherlands, imports 7 million tonnes of palm oil. Number one in India stands at 9.5 million tons. China is number three with 5.5 million. Europe as a whole imports 7 million. In that we take a heavy responsibility to do 90% today. We hope tomorrow we'll be able to do 100%.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u26	We have been running around a certification system for years now, and it is becoming clear time and again that in practice it simply does not solve the problems that lie ahead. Then we simply have to look further at what is really needed to tackle the problems in this industry. Surely that can be in parallel with the desire to go out of that 90% to 100%? That doesn't have to be mutually exclusive, does it? Can't we invite the minister to that together?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u27	We're threatening to repeat ourselves. I have a bit to say about this; perhaps this reassures Mrs Kröger and that we can get a little closer together. Again, we also want 100% sustainable palm oil. We're not there yet based on the RSPO. If there are any further questions, she may ask the question again at once, because I think I will come back to it. It's not like we don't want anything. I need to see where I left off. Indonesia and Malaysia, in particular, are large palm oil producing countries. I focus on Indonesia, where 16 million people make their living. There are major problems with land rights. That has just been discussed in the debate. It is primarily a responsibility of the Indonesian government. But what can we do? Can the Minister comment on this? The Indonesian government has established a three-year halt to the expansion of palm oil plantations. That's some kind of freezing time. This raises a problem for the income of workers and their families. It is sustainable for the climate but socio-economically certainly not sustainable. How can we help bridge years when production is shut down in certain regions in order to catch nature's breath? Can the Minister indicate what other policies Indonesia is taking? Is there a road map, for example? What can we do to support that? Then there is the delegated regulation of the European Commission which identifies palm oil as a threat to sustainability. Indonesia and Malaysia have serious problems with this. I understand that, too. I understand that Indonesia has threatened to stop the negotiations on a trade agreement and even threatens to terminate the Paris climate agreement. The wrongs in the sector can be dealt with precisely by setting conditions for trade together with Indonesia. I would like a response from the Minister as to whether this is the desired effect of these delegated measures. Malaysia would have sent a letter to the Netherlands. What did the Netherlands say to that? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I come to Mr von Martels' motion. The Dutch system remains based on the share of renewable energy and not on CO performance. We would like to move on to a system based on the contribution of biofuels to CO reduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u28	Thank you. Mr Van Aalst of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Dutch imports of palm oil have been back on the elevator since 2017. We are even by far the largest importer of palm oil in Europe. That is good news, because this raw material is further processed into an export product in the Netherlands. The Netherlands excels in this too, because we are also the largest exporter of palm oil in Europe. Mr. Chairman. It is wonderful to see that the Dutch trade spirit is still flourishing worldwide. The PVV therefore does not see any additional regulation on what world trade should look like, which will make trade more difficult. When the Secretary of State deals with this, it seems that she has nothing else to do. Mr. Chairman. Palm oil is an effective product, producing a lot of production per hectare. It is therefore an interesting raw material for the market. As long as this production is not at the expense of valuable agricultural land, in order to go to biodiesel, for example, it is fine to use it. Mr. Chairman. Yes, there are certainly problems with the production of palm oil. You know the PVV as a party that loves animals and nature. That is why we do not welcome large-scale forest cover in order to produce palm oil. But is this problem related to our trade? The Dutch imports of palm oil were already 84% sustainable in 2015 and complied with the RSPO mark. Business is already well on track to buy palm oil completely sustainable by 2020. Mr. Chairman. So what will the Netherlands do if we have things in order? Right, with the ringing finger pointing to the rest of the world. The cabinet is now targeting other countries using palm oil. They must be brought up urgently with a lesson of sustainability. The PVV has nothing with this attitude! As Dutch politics, we do not bear the responsibility for how countries like Indonesia and China use palm oil. Don't let go of that ringing finger and be proud of how well our own Dutch business is working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u30	Thank you. Finally, Mr Van Haga of the PVV... From the VVD, excuse!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have no intention of switching, you know. So don't worry. Mr. Chairman. Palm oil has two sides. Technically, palm oil is a good product. Of all vegetable oils, palm oil has the highest yield per hectare, provided well grown. And palm oil is used in all kinds of products, such as baby food, food and shampoo. Moreover, it has a positive impact on the food security and income of many people in various countries, such as Malaysia and Indonesia. Palm oil, however, also has a dark side. Demand for palm oil has increased enormously in recent years worldwide, up to 70 million tonnes in 2017, resulting in catastrophic deforestation, a major impact on the habitat of different species and a huge increase in CO emissions in the world. It is therefore important that the production of palm oil is done as efficiently and as sustainably as possible. So palm oil produces and uses, but without deforestation. Fortunately, in the Netherlands, we use almost only sustainably produced palm oil. Unfortunately, not in the rest of the world yet, and we should do something about that. I read in the letter from the Secretary of State of 2 April that the cabinet has recently launched a new programme aimed at reaching agreements with Indonesia, Malaysia, Ghana and Nigeria to work with small farmers on sustainable and deforestation-free palm oil. My question to the Secretary of State is: what is the status of this programme, in what period does it expect results and can it indicate what the objectives of this programme are? I would then like to know from the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation whether the Netherlands is going to use OS money for this. And is Dutch knowledge also used to optimise existing plantations, so that further deforestation can be avoided? Mr. Chairman. In March 2019, the EU fortunately indicated that biofuels made from palm oil will no longer be considered sustainable. Fortunately, it has also been realised that it was a good idea, but that the net effectiveness of palm oil in biofuels is negative. Therefore, palm oil will be reduced in biofuels from 2023 onwards and no biofuel in the EU should contain any more palm oil by 2030. Fortunately, the Netherlands is doing very well in this area, partly thanks to positive initiatives from the sector, and hardly any palm oil is added to biofuels. And the palm oil that is still being added is produced sustainably. The question now is what more can we do in the Netherlands, in consultation with the sector, to promote sustainable palm oil. CSR, the chain organisation for oil and fats, makes a few suggestions for this, for example supporting small farmers in increasing the efficiency of their palm oil plantations, including sustainable palm oil in the purchasing conditions of the governments. It has been mentioned before and consultation with European colleagues on promoting sustainable palm oil. I would like to hear from the Minister and the Secretary of State how they view these proposals from CSR and whether they are prepared to accept the suggestions. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u32	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending until 8:35.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u33	I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u34	Thank you, Madam President. We're talking about palm oil here today. We've heard all the important questions. I would just like to mention the two policy dimensions for introduction: the broader government policy on sustainability, especially in the field of external trade and development cooperation, and the use of biofuels, which will be so appointed by my colleague. First of all, the sustainability perspective. The broad government policy approach for palm oil production and trade focuses on three challenges and three aspects. Palm oil production, of course, has the challenges of deforestation, working conditions and land rights. Palm oil, however, also provides important jobs for millions of small farmers and workers in Asia, West Africa and Latin America. We certainly take the extra responsibility we have as the Netherlands very seriously throughout the sector, because indeed, as has been mentioned, a large part of all palm oil enters the EU through the Netherlands and is refined in Rotterdam. As has often been mentioned, palm oil is in many products, more than we often account for as consumers, I think. It is a raw material in food, cosmetics and pharmacy, and it has a six times higher yield per hectare than alternative crops. So all this in the context of the broad weighting. Our bet is on three lines. We work with companies and governments in the Netherlands and Europe. We are working on the use of certified, sustainable palm oil, and we work together in, among other things, the Banking Agreement and the Pension Agreement to make investments more sustainable. We help farmers and plantations with deforestation-free farming practices and high productivity from Foreign Trade and OS in countries such as Ghana, Indonesia and Malaysia to reduce deforestation and improve working conditions. In the international field, we look at all the agreements we have, such as the Amsterdam Declaration, and through round tables, how we can get more and more countries, companies and civil society organisations involved in the discussion on sustainability and its approach. I wanted to continue with the questions, Madam President, because through all the questions that have been asked, I come back to the specific details. There was Mrs Van Eijs of D66's question about how we can help local farmers to produce truly sustainable products. I have just mentioned that we have programmes in a number of countries in which we are working to combat deforestation. We are also working through civil society organisations to train farmers in more efficient production methods and to transfer knowledge about crop and agricultural use. Together with them, we mobilise innovative forms of funding. In round tables, we agree with local companies on how to combat and counteract some of the negative effects of palm oil production. In a recent government-to-government palm oil programme, we are discussing, in cooperation with producing countries, how we can help small palm oil farmers outside traditional production chains to produce sustainable and deforestation-free. Then how do we make these chains transparent? That was also a question from D66. The Netherlands has been committed through the food sector and the covenant to use 100% sustainable palm oil by 2020, or at least to see within the sector. In 2019, 100% of the palm oil entering Europe is traceable to the palm oil mill. Individual companies such as Wilmar and Sinar Mas, you may be better known, are now also working together on traceability up to the plantation. At the International Standardisation Organisation ISO, the Netherlands is chairman of the group working on the Chain of Custody agreements, improving traceability. So there is a lot of work to be done, in a productive and very constructive way. The Netherlands plays a leading role in this. With regard to the policy I am taking on behalf of the cabinet to combat deforestation, we are working on inclusive, deforestation-free trade chains. We are working towards the conservation and restoration of the latter, of course, is also very important for valuable forest areas. To give an example, we encourage companies to produce and buy deforestation-free. We do this with very well-known organizations like IDH and Solidaridad. Especially in the BuHa-OS committee they often pass through the review. Through our programmes, we also support governments in the countries concerned in order to achieve better governance and legislation. Today, I opened the dialogue with a number of civil society organisations, including the issue of land rights and land use improvement. As the current President of the Amsterdam Partnership Declarations, the Netherlands, together with Germany, Denmark, France, Italy, Norway, the UK and the European Commission, is strongly committed to an ambitious EU action plan against deforestation. In June, we will organise a major international meeting on innovations and the deployment and use of new technology in the sustainability and deforestation-free of soy, cocoa and palm oil chains. So there is a lot of work that takes place quietly. Then there is a question from Mr Van Haga. What about the new palm oil programmes with Indonesia, Malaysia, Ghana and Nigeria? When do we expect results? As Mr Van Haga knows from other discussions, results, especially in the area of sustainability and development cooperation, have not been achieved overnight. But we just started the programme NI-SCOPS this year. It has a duration of five years. I think that in the middle of that period, in two, two and a half years' time, we should be able to see the first results, but five years is, frankly, a realistic timetable for a transformation programme. It is about sustainability and, precisely, good cooperation with the producer countries, where governments want their own responsibility, can and must take place. This is also about climate adaptation and mitigation, but in the end we are also looking at the better standard of living, especially for the smaller farmers. Because that is the concern of many countries where palm oil is produced. Are we putting OS money on it? Yes. It's been funded by my ministry for five years. We pay to the total of 57 million euros, 23 million euros. We are also funding a number of other programmes in the field of the sustainability and production of palm oil for small farmers through other programmes, which are already under way. Then I have the question of Mr Van Haga how we can use Dutch knowledge to optimize existing plantations to prevent further deforestation. Use of knowledge, I have just appointed all the elements, training, knowledge sharing, funding, mobilisation and the round table arrangements with companies. We rely very much on the knowledge, skills and presence of the many programs of the University of Wageningen to transfer the knowledge about circular use of residual flows of palm oil. Wageningen, of course, plays an international role in this. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Haga also had a question about CSR. CSR, the oil and fats chain organisation, has made a few suggestions to promote sustainable palm oil: supporting small farmers, including sustainable palm oil in the purchasing value of the government and consulting European colleagues. I support the proposals of CSR. We are committed to achieving this. As I mentioned, we work with IDH and Solidaridad, and also with SNV. The new purchasing criteria for catering and catering require sustainable palm oil. So that's a cabinet commitment. I also regularly discuss with my European colleagues, through the Amsterdam Declarations, but also the commitment we are making with the countries I have just mentioned. I would say that the answer to Mr Van Haga's question is a clear and loud 'yes'. Then D66's question by Mrs Van Eijs whether I see an opportunity for an update of the RSPO, the round table on sustainable palm oil. Can we make new agreements whereby more companies or new companies can join? It is good to mention that RSPO has one of the highest sustainability standards for palm oil. The round table is always working on better monitoring and improvement where relevant. Governments are not members of this round table, as you know. So we have limited influence on the standard. But we talk about it regularly. We also ask companies and NGOs to join RSPO. The standard itself is reviewed every five years and has recently been tightened up in the field of deforestation and human rights by the end of 2018. There is a question from Mrs Kröger van GroenLinks whether we want to discuss the use of RSPO Next. As I just mentioned, this is already one of the highest standards with the greatest support. More than 3,000 companies and NGOs are connected. However, we must recognise that many farmers in the countries of the European Union are, in the end, the weakest link in the chain and also the most vulnerable link in terms of human rights and living standards, which are very difficult to achieve. There is always room to talk about an improvement, but we must also be real in what we expect. In particular, we want to focus on the greatest possible number of farmers who are now able to meet the standard that has already been set. This does not mean that we are opposed to continuous improvement, but we must be able to build in a timetable and actually give people the opportunity to meet that standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u35	That timeline's gonna run for a while. I have lived in Indonesia for four years and in those days I have often seen how there was a struggle on plantations to meet RSPO, but also how enforcement is actually structuralally inadequate. It is a voluntary certification system that often operates in a context where legal compliance alone is difficult. Maybe that's where my question lies. The CDA just indicated that 90% of the use of palm oil in the Netherlands is currently RSPO certified, but that is not about all imports. Can we not see how we can ensure that at least the imports that the Netherlands has are guaranteed legal and that it is traceable where it is made, so that you can even see those chains?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u36	I think you actually confirm what I asked in an earlier question: we are looking at the certification of traceability and improvements in traceability. That is a continuous increase in the level. I am not saying that we can do that immediately from today to tomorrow, but traceability to the lowest level of the chain is extremely important. I mentioned that earlier in my answer, perhaps too soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u37	Certainly, the Minister mentioned that, but in the context of a voluntary certification system. In that context of what is used in the Netherlands, there is apparently 90% coverage of a voluntary certification system with large enforcement issues. It is, of course, about the fact that the Netherlands imports an incredible amount of palm oil. How do we ensure something similar to the legislation on illegal timber in Europe, in which real due diligence and legal compliance are demanded? How do we ensure that the palm oil entering Rotterdam is guaranteed legal and that the burden of proof lies with the person who wants to import it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u38	As far as I am concerned, there are a number of issues that are still on the agenda. At the moment, the cabinet is working on 13 covenants. Eight or nine of them are signed. Those agreements are all based on voluntary participation. All sectors have separate agreements, whether they are protein, food, pension funds or all of them. At the end of this year, we will assess how well the agreements and the sector-wide approach have worked and whether legislation is in the long term. As a cabinet, we are not yet at the stage where we say: we are taking one out now and going much further than with all the other agreements. Secondly, we are committed to the government-to-government dialogue. We invest in capacity building. We are looking at regulation and the broader framework. So we've been doing a lot of things. It is therefore too early to make that leap. Moreover, the Netherlands is not the only player in this whole. That is why the Amsterdam Declarations are extremely important, as well as a commitment within the EU. I hope that I have outlined how much is already being done to get the net out as wide as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u39	Mrs Kröger, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u40	I certainly recognise that much is being done, I just think that part of the problem is that a lot is being done on the basis of a voluntary certification system with an incredible enforcement problem. So once again, does the Minister recognise that the Netherlands is responsible for all the palm oil we import here, so not just the part that is processed and consumed here, but the import?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u41	I have said from the outset that our policy shows how we feel about our responsibility, how we carry it out and how we try to include others in it. Whether I should take the leap of responsibility immediately afterwards and do as much as possible to legislation or compliance in Indonesia or in Malaysia? That is not feasible, not even for the Dutch Government. You're gonna need international agreements for that. At the moment, we are still committed on a voluntary basis and to the best possible quality. It is also about farmers, about incomes, about very vulnerable families and people. We want to do this thing together, which is the vision of development cooperation, because the voluntary basis is likely to produce much better results in the end. A number of countries have focused on overall sustainability. There's a deal about that. The reason why countries such as Indonesia and Malaysia respond to some of the statements that are being taken, for example from the Dutch public debate, is that they feel that there is inappropriate, unnecessary and unproductive pressure being placed and that they are being made for obligations that they simply cannot fulfil. That can also mean an escape route, which means that you can get more so-called illegal palm oil, so to speak................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We want to do this together from a shared responsibility, not from a solo responsibility of the Netherlands alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u42	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u43	Yes. Then Mr Amhaouch's question is what we can do if, for example, farmers have to stop production for a few years and have no income. This is also in the context of Wageningen, our knowledge institutions. Experiments are being carried out by knowledge institutions and companies with other forms of cultivation of temporary crops in order to ensure income due to the form of intercropping in Dutch I think intergewasgrowth. We are working with bridge funding where this is on the agenda, including for organisations that can support it. This can also be a very nice role, especially for civil society organisations from the Netherlands or those working locally. Mr Amhaouch also asks if there is a list of Dutch companies that are not members of the RSPO and if I can address them. As Mr Amhaouch knows, we are taking a positive approach. I believe he shares this approach. We remind all companies, wherever possible, of the opportunity, responsibility and role they need to take. We see RSPO membership as an integral part of that. On the website of the RSPO itself you can find the list of companies that are members. Unfortunately, I do not give up world coverage by telling you who is not yet a member. That's tricky, but I think we can get a good picture by looking at the list. I do not know who asked the question, but I was asked whether I would like to impose an import ban on palm oil. It was Mrs. Ouwehand. In the context of the party confusion, you were with another party. That is why I did not know whether the party or the questioner was right, Madam President. It was Mrs. Ouwehand of the Party for Animals. No, we do not consider that a ban on imports of palm oil is legally feasible. We also believe, as Mrs Ouwehand knows from other debates, that this does not solve the issue of sustainability. We believe that a ban on palm oil undermines the use of sustainable, certified palm oil. I have also spoken about the farmers who are in danger of being hit. The efficiency of palm oil is six times more per hectare, so if we want to replace it, there may be a lot of additional land use going towards deforestation rather than preventing deforestation. We are working on the approach I have described and we are looking at the sustainability and sustainable certified palm oil and therefore also at the cooperation of NGOs in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u44	For the sake of clarity, I did not talk about a ban but about a reduction in the use and therefore of the import of palm oil. I would like to present to the Minister what I said in my term. Yes, I acknowledge that the problems surrounding palm oil are a symptom of a deeper system error. I find it rather lean to say that it is the most efficient oil crop, so if we replace it, there will be problems elsewhere. Where is the responsibility of the Minister for Development Cooperation for the SDGs and for a food system that makes food available to all in the long term? I specifically asked her about the United Nations Food Rapporteur, Olivier De Sniper, who pointed this out. The palm oil we eat, with all due respect, is a luxury product in the rich West. A lot of other people and targets have to bleed for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u45	We regularly debate the rapporteur and other methods of production and consumption, as well as British economists. I very much appreciate the alternative approach to the ecosystem and rights described by Mrs Ouwehand. However, I do not agree. I believe that the cabinet is pursuing the SDGs precisely through the budget, the allocation and the themes described in the Foreign Trade and Development Co-operation memorandum. Our approach, choices and priorities differ, but we are very committed to sustainability and the seventeen development goals of the United Nations. We just think the approach is different. We believe in a constructive, consultative approach and agreements. A relocation of the problem is still not the problem to solve. Poverty must be eliminated, but poverty is, I fear, a much broader issue than consumption or the use or export of sustainable or unsustainable palm oil.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u46	Once again, we cannot just talk about palm oil and just look for a solution in this context, but I think that the Minister's portfolio of development cooperation and its responsibility for sustainable development objectives is really inadequate if she does not want to recognise that greater system changes are needed. If we eat less meat and dairy in the rich West, a lot of land will be released. We will then be able to grow oil crops in Europe. Indeed, they ask for a little more land than those high-efficiency plantations, but we can just have that. The Minister here shields with small farmers and says that they must be the carriers of a sustainable food system, which I acknowledge but not of such monocultures in which they have to work with their children in order to earn a decent living. I think the Minister should not ignore these effects. This debate is only about palm oil, but I will certainly come back to the Minister. I think she should acknowledge that the creation of this large-scale monocultures for consumption in the rich West does not fit in with the development goals she claims to pursue as minister for OS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u47	I always find it interesting that we use verbs like "recognize." Looks like there's been a crime. Accept or appreciate that the SDGs are important, that sustainable food production is relevant, yes. I couldn't agree more. To lift people out of poverty, the cabinet invests in education, education for women, girls. We are working on reception, health care, access to innovative funding and job creation. I certainly acknowledge that. I also appreciate that sustainable palm oil production is part of a transformation process. But our political approach in how to change a system is, as far as I am concerned, an evolution in a shared task and responsibility of the SDGs. I would like to come back to that in the usual debate on development cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u48	I think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u49	Then there is a question about the ABP, which invests in companies that use or produce palm oil. What can we do to encourage ABP to make investments more sustainable? We expect ABP, like any other pension fund, to follow the OECD Responsible Business Guidelines, identify the risks associated with palm oil, and use its influence to prevent and address risks. We have agreements on this, including through the imvo-covenant of the pension sector. Did the Catshuis session discuss dubious bank investments? I don't want to make any further statements about the Catshuis session. I do not know which one is specifically intended here, but when it comes to sustainability and restoring confidence in the banking sector, it is always considered that sustainability is part of that. Criteria are important and in a broader sense corporate social responsibility. As far as my own discussions with banks and the pension sector are concerned, there are expectations about the agreements with regard to the banking agreement and the pension agreement. I also appeal to individual companies or pension funds to do so. Then I've answered most of my questions. Let me take a look at my colleague, Mrs Van Veldhoven. If there are any questions, I'd like to return to them in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u50	Good. I now turn to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Kröger has asked for incentives: how can we prevent unsustainable palm oil from being added to biofuels? The delegated act now before us will phase out the mixing of palm oil after 2020, unless it is certified. Non-certified mixing is actually what Mrs Kröger is referring to, and is even more expensive than fossil, so there is no incentive to do so. If you do want to use it, you should be able to demonstrate that there is sustainable palm oil under the criteria of the RED II. What about the criteria? Those are part of the delegated act. These are demands on how these criteria are assessed. This is, of course, laid down in implementing rules. We in the Netherlands will, of course, look very critically at this, to ensure that it is properly secured. In response to a question from D66, it is at least working in Europe in such a way that independent certification bodies should check whether biofuels meet the sustainability requirements of the Renewable Energy Directive. Certification bodies must also comply with European rules, as set out in the Renewable Energy Directive. Those certification bodies will be reviewed by the European Commission. Member States themselves cannot impose additional requirements on those certification bodies, but we will, of course, continue to monitor this closely with the European Commission. D66 asked how we in the Netherlands are trying to make all biofuels as sustainable as possible. Biofuels that contribute to the European renewable energy target must meet the sustainability criteria of RED II, otherwise they simply do not count. But in the context of the climate agreement, we have also made further agreements. For example, we have decided that the level of conventional fuels remains equal to the level of 2020. In this European directive there was still an opportunity to increase 1% above that, but the parties to the climate agreement have said: we are not going to do that. It was also agreed to continue the current practice, in which the market players do not use palm oil and soya for biofuels for the Dutch transport market. On a question from Mr Laçin I can say that I do not expect any changes, but I will send you the report in June 2018. GroenLinks asked a question about biokerosin. Biokerosin, as is the case for all fuels: if it is used to achieve the goals of RED II, it simply has to meet the requirements of RED II. Therefore, the sustainability requirements of RED II also apply to sustainable biokerosin used under the EU ETS. In this way, therefore, there is also a clear incentive towards aviation to meet the requirements of RED II for biofuels. As far as deployment outside the RED II is concerned, the use of unsustainable palm oil is more expensive than just fossil. Then there is no incentive whatsoever to make these additional costs but not to make it count for anything else. That incentive is therefore not economic. Mrs Kröger asked how we guarantee the production of sustainable biomass. In the Circular Economy Implementing Programme and the draft agreement, we agreed that there would be a sustainability framework. This has also been an integral part of the entire draft climate agreement. PBL has now been asked to make an analysis of availability and fair share. The ESC then issued an opinion. After that, the cabinet will take a decision; I expect it to come in the first quarter of 2020. We also agreed on the following. For large-scale new investments, supported by the government, it is important that that framework exists, so that you also know if your future is investing. This is important for the environment, but it is equally important for entrepreneurs who know where they stand. Then Mr Amhaouch of the CDA asked whether the Netherlands will switch to CO-control in that new system. We are currently implementing the revised Renewable Energy Directive. In fact, motions from the Chamber, but also in the climate agreement, mention is made of the fact that CO emissions will be included in the chain. This is reflected in the legislation. I expect to be able to inform the Chamber about this at the beginning of next year. Mr President, if it is correct, I have answered the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u52	There is a question from Mr Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u53	The Secretary of State states that the motions are taken with CO, but there is a difference whether they are taken or that they are leading. When we look at the climate debate we have, we have said that CO reduction is leading. So here too the question, as in Mr Van Martel's motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u54	Von Martels, your colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u55	Von Martels: Is the CO immediately leading the new arrangements?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u56	What I said was that we're taking CO emissions into the chain. The request was for this to be included in the legislation. I do not know the details of the legislation by heart, but motions from the Chamber are always carefully carried out. I therefore assume that this will also be properly followed on this point. We'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u57	Both regiments talk very fast, so maybe I missed it. I also asked if there was more support for the use of the Netherlands in asking for stricter criteria and closing back doors when it comes to palm oil and its inclusion as a renewable raw material in biofuels. Does she expect more support for this position, even in the future, and is there any chance of further tightening up in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u58	That was indeed a question, as well as whether the European Parliament could perhaps do anything else. I realize that question was still there. This delegated act cannot be amended, so you can only say 'yes' or 'no'. This means that at the moment there is no possibility of saying: I want to clarify or tighten up certain requirements or certain aspects of that delegated act. I think I hear that this delegated act really represents a step forward in the Chamber too. In the future, we will again talk about renewable energy in a variety of ways. Even then, the Netherlands will once again strive for strong sustainability criteria and certainly seek out other countries to join in. But in general, I cannot judge what Mrs Van Eijs is referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u59	Actually, I was referring to the fact that I was very pleased with the Secretary of State's commitment, as she describes it in her letter. I am trying to get a little sense of whether we are the only ones in Europe who want this. Or is there a great chance that there will eventually be a majority? I think 2021 is the next chance to tighten up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u60	In any case, I expect this delegated act to be adopted. In other words, a majority of Member States believe that this is a step in the right direction and that they would therefore like this further tightening up. This also means that you have a basis of Member States that are keen and critical of this and which will, of course, assess such a proposal from that perspective when it comes to a subsequent review. So my short answer is that I expect that we will be able to go back to other countries in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u61	I have a question about biokerosin, because that was very fast. When the Netherlands is more committed to biokerosin, there is of course a great risk that, where palm oil and soya are not used in biofuels and we also have that cap, there will be a shift and it will be used for biokerosine. Does the Secretary of State acknowledge this risk, does she agree with me that this would be undesirable and what can we do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u62	There are a number of layers in that question. If biokerosin is used to achieve the RED II targets........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Otherwise, for example, it does not count for our share of renewable energy. Then the same requirements count. The sustainability requirements of RED II also apply to the sustainable biokerosin used under the EU ETS. So if we want to get something back under EU ETS, these objectives also apply. Therefore, there are clear incentives to simply meet that objective of the RED II. Other sustainability agreements can also be made, for example in the international context. However, it is always the case that the use of biofuels for an airline is more expensive than not using biofuels. And if you are committed to biofuels and you want to see it reflected in a rating in the ETS or under the RED II, then the sustainability requirements apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u63	That was an answer to a piece of my question, but not to what I was talking about. There is now a shortcut to continue using palm oil for biofuels. The Secretary of State states that she is pleased that the climate agreement says that we are not going to do palm oil and soya, and we will continue to do so. But are we going to get palm oil and soya in the biokerosin that is being fueled in the Netherlands by accident, involuntarily? And what can we do to prevent that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u64	The climate agreement is about road transport anyway. I think it's important that we made that deal. In addition, it is important to know that biokerosin derived from food crops is all covered by the 5% cap laid down in the regulation. So that's a cap. We also agreed that we will not use an increase in that cap. I therefore believe that the risk presented by Mrs Kröger is limited. But I understand that you will soon have a debate on sustainable aviation. If you want to talk more specifically about aviation which sometimes has a slightly different situation from road transport within Europe in the global market, then of course you can always ask additional questions there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u65	I'll take that suggestion, of course. But this Secretary of State is responsible for biofuel policy and has also made it very clear, on behalf of the Netherlands, that it is not desirable to use soya and palm oil as biofuel. I think it is important, of course, that this applies equally to biokerosin or to transport by ship. We should simply say: we are not going to burn those food crops; that is not desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u66	But that's why biokerosin is also covered by the 5% cap. The Netherlands has also set that cap lower than what European is allowed, exactly in line with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u67	Were you at the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u68	Yes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u69	This brings us to the end of the first term of office of the government. I look at the members to see if they need a second term. I'm excited to see yes nod. I give the floor to Mrs Kröger van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u70	Mr. Chairman. I've got three motions, so I'm gonna start soon. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the EU delegated act on palm oil (C(2019) 2055 final) presents the risk of sneak routes, which means that palm oil linked to deforestation and land robbery can still be used as biofuel;]] [[calls on the government to play a proactive role in monitoring this policy and to provide the EU with the Dutch knowledge about it;]] [[calls on the Government to report in any event on the number and area of palm oil plantations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Dutch food and other food producers use palm oil on a large scale in products while more sustainable alternatives are available;]] [[calls on the Government to consult food producers on reducing the use of palm oil in products in which this is not essential and to inform the Court about the results,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the production of palm oil is still linked to the degradation of vulnerable nature, protected species and the rights of local population;]] [[Whereas at present there is only a voluntary certification system for palm oil production;]] [[calls on the Government to identify the steps that can be taken to prevent the import of palm oil, the production of which is linked to deforestation or land robbery, by the Netherlands, and to examine whether the burden of proof for proving that palm oil has been legally and sustainably produced can be found in the importing companies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger and Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-638]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger and Mr Diks. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-639]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-640]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u71	Thank you, Mr President. I don't understand so well that you can stick around in a method just doesn't work. The government's commitment has been the same for 15 years: we are committed to sustainability. And we are still warned that things are not going well at all: by the trade unions, by Amnesty International, by environmental organisations. How long do we want to keep this up? We are working with a voluntary certification system where taxpayers' money is actually going to be used for development cooperation, but which the big companies benefit from, because they are at these round tables making the most of it. I don't understand why after 15 years, you won't even admit that we might have to try differently, and that we're going to bet on predatory construction on Earth right now. 'Cause that's it. Why do we not admit that we are creating monocultures because the big multinationals find it useful that there is a cheap raw material for the products they want to sell here in the rich West? I really appeal to the Minister for Development and Cooperation for the system errors that need to be removed. If we want to make sustainable food accessible to all people in the future, you have to get off this system. Mr President, this is being continued.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u72	Mr Laçin, on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u73	Mr. Chairman. When we listen to the rulers like that, it seems like we're doing a great job and there's no problem at all. But I would like to stress once again that the use and import of palm oil, which is done massively by the Netherlands, has a major impact on local farmers and other people there. The Netherlands is the largest importer and exporter in the EU, but I do not hear very much from the rulers about deforestation and human rights violations. That's disappointing because that's just a big problem. I am also very curious to know whether we can see how the enforcement of the agreements we are making is going to take place in these countries and how they are being monitored. That's what I'm really worried about. We need to bet on that so that imports, if we continue to do so, will be as sustainable as possible. If that doesn't happen, we just have to stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u74	Mrs. Van Eijs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've got two motions, so I'm gonna start soon. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that on 8 February the European Commission presented a proposal for a delegated act laying down the criteria for high indirect CO emissions biofuels (ILUC);]] [[Whereas these criteria will lead to a substantial reduction of biofuels based on palm oil, but not for biofuels based on other raw materials that can also lead to high deforestation and therefore comparable CO emissions;]] [[Whereas the Court has previously expressed its view that CO and ILUC should be better controlled;]] [[calls on the Government to work to ensure that biofuels of raw materials other than palm oil with a high deforestation risk are also identified by the Commission as biofuels with a high ILUC risk,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Eijs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-641]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u76	I'm making too long motions. Here comes the next one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that imports of palm oil and other vegetable oils are increasing in the Netherlands;]] [[noting that banks continue to invest in their production and that it is not clear what steps business is taking to use only sustainable palm oil and other types of oil;]] [[Whereas, inter alia, banks and food industry have concluded import agreements;]] [[calls on the government, together with the banks and the food industry, to take steps to sustain palm and other vegetable oil and to prevent deforestation and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Eijs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-642]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u77	Mr. Chairman. I don't have any motions, unfortunately, but I have two questions for the Minister. The first is about the term "deforestation." It's starting to tend that deforestation is by definition bad. Last Sunday evening I saw a programme on Dutch television indicating that deforestation is a trend in the Netherlands, so we are removing more trees than planting. By definition, deforestation is bad, or there are also certain situations where deforestation serves a purpose, I ask the Minister. That's one. Two is that I still miss some answers to my questions to the Minister about a complete block. In my first contribution, I referred to the letter from Malaysia and the fact that Indonesia threatened to terminate the trade agreement we are currently negotiating and even to terminate the climate agreement. How am I supposed to place that? I do not know if they are emotions, but I assume that the Netherlands and Europe are working together with Indonesia. I must say that the Minister's policy is very balanced: to see if what is not going well is better and not just pointing fingers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u78	Your questions about deforestation raised questions for Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u79	That does raise a question. Do I understand that the CDA is also concerned about deforestation in the Netherlands? How should I indicate what Mr Amhaouch has just said: there is deforestation, but it seems that the Netherlands is perhaps doing even worse?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u80	I'm not saying the Netherlands is doing worse. On Sunday nights you don't have so much to do and you're going to have a look at I like to watch the programs Counterlight and Monitor. I did not deforest a spokesperson, but it triggered me that sometimes there is a goal behind it. In the Netherlands, we seem to be deforesting a bit because there is a European conservation objective. I would like to ask the Minister: do we also have such a policy in Southeast Asia and in Oceania that we remove a piece of forest for a piece of dusty sand or heath? So there could be a purpose behind that. I want to prevent us in this Chamber, in this house of democracy, from talking only about deforestation in black terms. That is why I am asking the Minister: should we by definition see it very black and white, 'deforestation is always bad', or is it something more nuanced?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u81	I can see that Mr Amhaouch is indeed not a spokesperson for biodiversity. But I hope he remembered what he saw on television, namely that a lot of trees are disappearing in the Netherlands, and I hope that the CDA will now support proposals, including in municipal councils and provinces, to leave those trees standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u82	I'm not a spokesperson for deforestation. I took it for notification. I think many with me listen to this as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u83	Is Mr Amhaouch aware of the global impact of deforestation, particularly in the peat forests in Indonesia and Malaysia, on CO emissions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u84	That's what that program was about here in the Netherlands last Sunday. I don't know how to place it. I know that we in the Netherlands have certain European policies to deforest to give other nature a chance. Again, my question is, nothing more and nothing less: is deforesting by definition bad? Or can you remove trees and then plant trees again? Then it's not so black and white, but more nuanced.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u85	I really recommend to Mr Amhaouch to look into how deforestation in Southeast Asia, especially in the peat forests, makes a huge contribution to global CO emissions. That is why the Netherlands and a lot of other countries worldwide say: we must stop deforestation in Indonesia, in Southeast Asia.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u86	Thank you. Mr Van Aalst waived his speaking time. Finally, Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for answering the questions. It's good to hear that we're helping farmers in all kinds of countries. We train them. We pass on knowledge. Even Wageningen was mentioned. And there's even OS money going there. That's good. It is good that the Minister also mentioned that the yield is six times higher than in other crops. So much is being done. Compliments for that. After all, millions of people depend on it. It is good to hear that the Minister accepts the suggestions of CSR. Thank you for that. So the Netherlands is doing just fine, both in the Netherlands and in the international chain, and fortunately also with OS money. I had prepared two motions, but the Minister completely convinced me. So I won't file them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u88	Look, we like that. Mrs Kröger has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u89	Still a question to the VVD about this good news show. Does the VVD recognise that despite the certification, despite the commitment, despite the fact that 90% now use the voluntary certification system in the Netherlands, there are still huge problems in palm oil production and that additional steps are needed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u90	I think I said in my contribution that deforestation is very bad. If deforestation is due to the use of palm oil, we must do something about it. We have heard that 90% of palm oil in the Netherlands is already sustainable. I fully agree with Mr Amhaouch that we must ensure that this goes to 100%. But I have also heard from the Minister that we are already doing very well, that we are taking all kinds of steps and that the Netherlands in the chain and abroad are doing everything possible to achieve this. I fully agree with you that we must do everything we can to achieve 100%. If we use the current area decently and have a high return on palm oil production, we can provide for the current area throughout the world. And then palm oil is a good product in which we can act perfectly and where we can make all kinds of beautiful products.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u91	But in addition to purchasing 100% through a voluntary certification system with which enforcement issues are always involved, are there not additional steps needed? For example, we need to ensure that all imports of palm oil into the Netherlands are not just about what is being used here, but above all about what we get in Rotterdam, which is guaranteed to be legal and not linked to deforestation, human rights violations or land robbery.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u92	Once again, anything we can do about it, we have to do. I am also very pleased that the Netherlands is the largest importer and exporter, because I have great confidence that the Netherlands is a country that takes good action on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u93	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the second term of office. I'm looking at both regiments. Can you respond immediately? No. Then I'll suspend for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u94	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Kröger and Mr Laçin ask me two questions. They ask to play a proactive role in monitoring and to offer Dutch knowledge to the EU, but also to monitor and report for themselves. Until that first, I'd like to be willing, but not until the second. We in the Netherlands do not need to do that either, because the European Commission will regularly update the deforestation data. The first time that will happen in spring 2021. Scientific data shall be used for that data. Of course, I am willing to offer our knowledge to the Commission, but I leave it to the Commission to report. I would therefore suggest to Members that they delete the second request. If they do, I can leave the verdict to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u96	It's a handout. Mrs. Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u97	Yeah, it's a handout. I meant to ask in the motion that reporting on the area of palm oil plantations becomes part of what the EU is going to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u98	But the EU is already doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u99	That's gonna happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u100	As far as I know, yes. In any case, I am not going to report something separately at national level that the EU reports. If there are any specific questions after this EU report, then, of course, Mrs Kröger can always, through the European Parliament, ensure that the EU takes the right things into account in its reporting. She has colleagues there who can directly influence that. Then of course you can always ask questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u101	Sure. I hope that if the Netherlands is to play this proactive role, we will indeed be committed to monitoring the area of palm oil plantations. Then I'll amend my own motion. That's the wrong word. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u102	You're changing your motion. Then she gets changed the judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u103	Yes, we will proactively look at how the Commission organises this monitoring and we are willing to offer Dutch knowledge to the EU. I can leave the judgment on that point to the Chamber if the second one has therefore lapsed. Then there is Mrs Van Eijs' motion. The Netherlands could initially advise the Commission on that delegated act. The Netherlands then turned to climate impact, because that's why we all do it, and asked critical questions about the calculations of the border for the high ILUC. Therefore, the Netherlands has also recommended that other raw materials that have a high risk of deforestation should also be classified as high ILUC risk. The Commission did not adopt that opinion and the delegated act was adopted on 13 March. I will of course continue to follow developments in the future. I see the motion as supporting the existing policy, so I could take over this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u104	Are there people opposed to this motion being taken over? That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u105	Then she gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u106	The motion in part No. 641 gets judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u107	Then I am at the end of my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u108	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u109	Thank you, Madam President. The motion in part No. 639, the request to the Government to consult food producers on reducing the use of palm oil in products where this is not essential and to inform the Court of the results. I wanted to say that we are already committed to sustainability. That'll be obvious. The cabinet believes that taking responsibility together is relevant. I will not repeat the way I look at the use of the country. We are in agreement with the producers. I do not know whether it is effective to consult with producers in particular to steer production. In all consultations, we will simply have talks about sustainability. Then, at some point, producers can come to the conclusion that they also want to broaden, invest another branch. But I do not think it is up to the cabinet to enter into specific consultations or negotiations with producers in order to insist on production. On that basis, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u110	The motion in part No. 639 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u111	The whole policy is constantly about agreements with the sector. We are talking about food producers, buying palm oil and other vegetable oils. It is always about agreements with the sector. Then why is it not part of these agreements to use less palm oil in areas where it is not essential? That's part of CSR, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u112	No, not necessarily. This concerns sustainability, animal welfare, human rights, international agreements, the climate agreement and other matters. Insisting on reduction of an ingredient within a product is not a specific part of the imvo. That's not part of the covenants either. You can take it with you, but it is rather up to the sector itself to say that we no longer need it, because we have found a new product through technology that can replace it. That's up to the sector itself. The public authorities do not take up the role of the sector or the producers. Nor is this a question of sustainability or a fundamental human rights issue, for which imvo is intended. Then the motion to part No. 640 by Mrs Kröger asking the government to identify what steps can be taken to prevent the import of palm oil, the production of which is linked to deforestation or land robbery by the Netherlands, and to lay the burden of proof on companies to show that palm oil has been produced legally and sustainably. Business in the Netherlands has already committed to 100% sustainable palm oil. Everything used for Dutch consumption is already 100% sustainable. Transit through the Netherlands is 88% sustainable. I fear that the government's assessment is that this motion will not change that. There is also no added value. However, enforcement costs are high. Moreover, it would run counter to the rules of the EU internal market and those of the World Trade Organisation. We attach great importance to the latter. On that basis, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u113	The motion in part No. 640 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u114	I'm getting to the motion on part No. 642. That motion is in line with standing policy. I do not want to mention any further details. We are talking to banks and the food industry through the various agreements in which they participate. A working group focuses on an approach to palm oil and human rights risks. On that basis, I am taking over this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u115	The proposal is that the motion should be put to the vote at the next voting time. 642 to be taken over. Is there any objection to that? That's the case. So, what's the verdict on the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u116	Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u117	The motion in part No. 642 gets judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u118	Mr Amhaouch asked two more questions, to which I shall reply very briefly. He asked my response to the question as to whether the threat of stopping the CEPA negotiations would have an effect, including with regard to Malaysia. We believe that a threat, let alone the cessation of negotiations between the EU and Indonesia, is initially not in the interest of Indonesia, even if it concerns the wider framework of our agreements and objectives. We believe that the future trade agreement offers dialogue opportunities to talk about sustainable and inclusive trade. It can also create employment as part of a broad development cooperation effort. We do believe that the agreement should contribute to the sustainability of palm oil production. Negotiations with Malaysia have been suspended since 2012. Then there is the broader question put by Mr Amhaouch on the basis of informational television programmes on Sunday evenings. I am absolutely not a deforestation expert, but the Cabinet is working in a broad sense to achieve the objectives of Paris internationally, through the NDC partnership and climate finance. It also seeks to reduce the risk of deforestation where it is relevant and based on wrong policies. For example, it is also about the recovery of agricultural land on the African continent. But there are different shades of color in that. I do not want to venture into a very wide area; we came here through the palm oil discussion. But I am very grateful for the broader question and the curiousness behind it. We can all learn from that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u119	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-7.u120	I would like to thank both directors for coming to the Chamber. The motions will be put to the vote next Tuesday.
