ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-6.u1	I give the floor to Mr Aartsen for his questions to the Minister for Primary and Secondary Education and Media about strangle contracts in the Dream School TV programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. Last few days there has been a fuss about a programme of public service broadcasting. This concerns Dream School, which is produced by producer No Pictures Please on behalf of the NTR, a task broadcast. This programme helps vulnerable young people between the ages of 16 and 23 to get their lives back on track at times of school failure. However, some of the former participants are quite critical of the NTR. They are not so much critical of the content of the programme as of the contracts signed around this programme. The VVD is now in possession of one of those contracts. We are quite shocked by what is in it. If participants are feeling uncomfortable or safe during the recordings and decide that they would like to withdraw from the recordings, participants aged between 16 and 23 years are fined a fine of €1,000 from the NTR. This is particularly harsh because these young people are participating because of their vulnerable position and because they are participating in this programme to be helped. Mr. Chairman. It's outrageous. This is a vulnerable group of young people, some of whom are still underage. These are put under pressure by our public service broadcaster with a heavy fine to continue to participate in this programme. My question to the Minister is quite simple: what does the Minister think of this situation? Is he willing to address the NPO and the NTR on these contracts?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-6.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-6.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank Mr Aartsen for his question. We have, of course, made some enquiries about the situation that was being addressed in the media. It is clear that our Media Act 2008, which we discussed in detail in the Chamber last week, does not contain rules on how to deal with participants in programmes. This is without prejudice to the assumption that broadcasters and programmers handle people who participate in programmes carefully, especially when minors are among them. We have also asked the NTR about this specific case, because that was the task broadcasting in question which broadcast this: what is going on here? They have admitted that there were penalty clauses in the participants' contracts, the third season of which has never been used in recent years and which, as far as they are concerned, are mainly intended to underline the commitment to the programme among the participants, so that it is understood that participation is not voluntary. We can take note of the fact that this is what we are underlining. We believe that this kind of commotion should not arise and that it is in the interests of the participants and also of the broadcasters and programmers that we do everything we can to prevent it. Now you know that there was a similar situation a few months ago, in which there was also a commotion about contracts and participation in a programme. At that time, we promised the Chamber that we would talk to the broadcasters, including the NPO, to ensure that clear agreements were made on this issue, for example in the governance code or the programme statute of the broadcasters. We are now also in the process of recording these agreements with each other, and we hope to inform the Chamber about them before the summer. These examples underline the importance of doing so carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-6.u5	Thank you to the Minister for his reply. The Minister states that the fine clause has not been used at all. I believe that this is precisely the problem with regard to these commitments, because I believe that the importance of young people should go beyond the importance of commitment to a television programme and above the importance of ratings, all in all with public service broadcasting. Can the Minister guarantee that this will not happen again in the future? He said something about the governance codes, but I just want a firm commitment from the Minister that this is not going to happen anymore, and I would like to know if there are any other programmes in the public service broadcasting sector using the same contracts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-6.u6	Mr. Chairman. I have just referred to our Media Act 2008, which does not provide any legal provisions on how such agreements should be made. The broadcasting organizations and programme makers themselves must also shape and content the media offer and there is no prior monitoring of the content of such programmes and the design. But that is without prejudice, as I have just said, to our view that this should be carefully regulated. That's what we're working on right now. When it comes to the question of whether we can prevent situations that once again cause commotion and where there is discontent about agreements, of course I cannot say 'yes' so carelessly, but everything is aimed at preventing that. And we will inform you of this, in accordance with previous commitments, even before the summer. Then you can also learn about the agreements made and assess whether that is sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-6.u7	We make a number of agreements with the Dutch Public Broadcasting and the broadcasters that are covered by it. One of these agreements is the performance agreements we make with the NPO. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he is prepared to make it clear in those agreements that this type of contract should not only be avoided, but should also be very undesirable, and that we should not have such contracts with fine clauses, especially in relation to minors, especially in the genre that these programmes focus on. I'd like to hear from the Minister how he's going to record this in the agreements with the NPO.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-6.u8	I have indicated that we are now in consultation to see what is the appropriate way to establish such agreements. This could also be the performance agreement, on which the Chamber itself always gives its opinion and on which it wishes to address itself. So let's just wait and see for the moment that the appointments are settled and we've informed the Chamber. Then we can talk about it in an orderly manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-6.u9	Thank you. Mr Sneller on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-6.u10	The Minister mentioned the commitments made a few months ago. That was ten months ago. That was about a similar story, namely, then a program of BNNVARA. The commitments to establish it in the governance code, the programme statute, and to get the NPO Ombudsman to say something about it, have been there for a long time. Is the Minister now convinced that broadcasting is also serious, that it is actually being regulated? Or does he say: we should look at the 2008 Media Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-6.u11	I think we can now conclude the agreements slowly but surely. It is indeed time for that to happen. It is annoying when these kinds of situations occur, which the NTR says they do not recognize in the picture. So it's also annoying when there's commotion about it. We really need to prevent that from happening. It would be worth a sweet thing to me if we could just do that in proper arrangements, without having to be laid down by law. You can, of course, put it in a general rule in the law, but then you have to work it out again. So let's hope we can make clear agreements on this before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-6.u12	So before the summer, the Chamber gets information about...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-6.u13	That was already promised, and we are working on it now. This example fits in with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-6.u14	Good. Then that's a deal. Thank you. This brings us to the end of Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments and then we shall vote.
