ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-5.u1	I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand, on behalf of the Animal Party, for her question to the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality. I would also like to welcome her. The question is about the increased number of megasthals in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr President. The Party for Animals wants more farmers. But for that we do not need to be with this cabinet, nor do we need to be with the predecessors of the cabinet. The Animal Party, as well as people who are completely on the other side of the spectrum, such as former Minister Veerman, have been saying for a while: the intensive livestock farming and the continuous increase in scale are no better: the animals are not, the farmers are not, nature is not, we have a huge biodiversity problem, the climate is not and the environment is not. However, government to government refused to take measures to reduce the scale increase. We now see that Wake Animal has counted: in the period between 2010 and 2017, the number of megasthals increased by 76%. We took a look at the number of companies left. Then you see a decrease in the same period: five farmers a day have to stop. So the first question is: does the Minister recognise the analysis recently made by the Planning Office for the Environment? It states that production for the world market is the current Dutch agricultural model, in which at least 75% cross the border keeps farmers in a situation where they produce bulk products for very little money, which they cannot sustain. Does she also recognise that when she talks about a good model of income for farmers who are very much in favour of the Party for Animals, you cannot therefore stay away from one of the taboos, the reflection on the position that the Netherlands occupies? Can we really stay farther away from Europe's milkman and butcher and even from countries? Is the Minister prepared to acknowledge that that is the autonomous direction in the fact that farmers have to stop and that they do not last? Mr. Chairman. We also looked at those exports. The Netherlands exports more than 1 billion kilos of pork per year, at that low cost, so farmers do not last. Can the Minister admit that the taboo must be settled on 'the Netherlands' and that there is an urgent need to set limits on the size of farms, otherwise small farmers will not make it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-5.u3	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand, for the questions. As Mrs Ouwehand pointed out, the number of megasthals in the Netherlands has indeed increased since 2010. That was also the case in 2013, when an investigation was carried out. You can see that between 2010 and 2017 the number of large stables increased especially in dairy farming. This is also due to the fact that the milk quota would then be abolished. That has been an incentive for farmers to expand. Mrs Ouwehand asks whether I accept the analysis that production for the world market cannot be sustained. Let me be clear that I am incredibly committed to diversity. I think farmers should be able to be the way they want to be and therefore they have the choice how they want to be. That is exactly why I am working, for example, to strengthen the position of farmers in the chain. 'Cause that's where the pressure gets. It is true: if consumers all want very cheap and high quality food, they must be paid somewhere. And that is often the case with the farmer, who does not have much choice at the time than to start producing at a lower cost. That is exactly why I am working on broadening farmers' income models. This is important to ensure that they can really make their own choice for the way they want to produce. But that does not mean that it is by definition worse for animal welfare, emissions and that sort of thing, if there is a larger stable. In fact, I have been on a beautiful company not so long ago, a biological-dynamic company, which must appeal particularly to Mrs Ouwehand, which would be classified as "megantal." In short, there is a lot of diversity. Farmers have a choice. I think it is important for them to be able to make that choice. That is why I am working on farmers' income models.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-5.u5	The Minister is conveniently ignoring the fact that I have appointed that no one really gets better. The simple question is whether it recognises that it does not improve animals and that the current policy has lost five farmers a day, while nature is not protected, we have a huge diversity problem and the Minister is not yet close to achieving any climate goal. So they're all losers. Does the Minister recognize that? Someone needs to get better, so we took a look at that too. We searched and searched, and what turns out? FrieslandCampina will get better. That company had 35% more turnover in the same period. And the cattle feed industry is getting better. ForFarmers You know that company is all looking for from the broadcasts of Boer Woman had almost 50% more profit in this period. So you see that farmers have to stop, that nature is not protected, that the environmental goals are not met, that animals are locked up in large stables with air scrubbers, which puts extra risk on barn fires, and that there are all losers and two big winners: ChinaCampina and the cattle feed industry. Is the Minister prepared to say, because of farmers' interests alone, that there is no point in giving a licence to a pig farmer with 20,000 pigs, because they might have been 10 farms with 2,000 pigs? Is the Minister prepared to acknowledge that farmers who want to work small-scalely and produce for the regional market will die if you release everything and say that you care about diversity? That's a little bit apart from animals and nature and the environment. Isn't that a simple analysis that the Minister can endorse?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-5.u6	Mr. Chairman. The analysis as Mrs Ouwehand sketches is indeed a bit too simple, because a lot of farmers are also working on certain concepts. We support that. There are very good examples of pig farms that produce in a certain way, including in the context of animal welfare, for which there is also a market. I think it is important that the farmers' freedom of choice should take place there. Where the farmer is indeed under pressure, we are now trying to ensure that the income models get better, because I think it is important that the margins are not all earned higher in the chain, but that they also end up in the farmyard. That's exactly what we're doing. Then the size of the companies. Of course, there is also a spatial planning aspect to this. It is the provinces that grant the permits. I do think it is important that they also look at the size of the company and that kind of aspect when asking whether it is fitable in the environment. I also see that provinces take that into account. But eventually you can't just make the analysis "it's a free market, so it's all bad." Farmers need to get really good earning models so they can farmers the way they want them to. That's cabinet policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-5.u7	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-5.u8	Have I run out of speaking time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-5.u9	You've already run out of speaking time. But I know you. I'll see you back behind the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-5.u10	In her reply to Mrs Ouwehand, I hear the Minister say that the growth in the number of megasthals raised in these oral questions is due to the growth of dairy farming. We all know that farmers have had to return cows by introducing the phosphate rights system. Does that also mean that the growth of the mega-stables has now stopped?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-5.u11	I have indicated that most of the growth during that period can be explained by the growth of dairy farming. 118 farms concerned dairy farming. With the introduction of the phosphate rights system, there is, of course, a limit to the size of dairy farming. There can't suddenly be a lot of animals, because you have to have rights to do so. So that size is now fixed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-5.u12	Mrs. Ouwehand, there you are again!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-5.u13	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I had another question and I had another remark that this answer is not promising very well. We received a briefing last week on the transition to circular agriculture. In that we learned that you have to settle taboos. The taboo is the number of animals, the taboo is "Netherlands export country," the taboo is size of farms. The Minister doesn't have the guts to do that. My question is this. The government has committed 200 million to reorganising pig farming, but at present permits are still being issued for new mega-stables in that congested area. Isn't that one measure the cabinet could take?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-5.u14	This concerns the province's jurisdiction: the province issues the permits. It is true that we will introduce a warm reorganisation of pig farming, and you will soon be informed of how we intend to do so, taking the rights out of the market. This will reduce the number of pigs. There will therefore also be a number of companies which Mrs Ouwehand now says she does not approve of. But at the same time it does support the warm clean-up. In that sense there is also some inconsistency in her own story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-5.u15	Last question. I think it's only logical that if you ask the taxpayer to solve a problem that wouldn't have existed if we'd intervened earlier, you'd say: we're quitting megasthals. My final question is: 200 million will be allocated, but 60 million will be granted. Does the Minister guarantee that this does not go towards expansion or expansion of businesses or to mega-stables?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-5.u16	The resources that we have released are about the sustainability of livestock farming. This is also a subject that Mrs Ouwehand is always very much working on. This concerns, for example, animal welfare and emissions. I cannot imagine that Mrs Ouwehand is opposed to us trying to take steps there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-5.u17	The colleagues of the Party for Animals are not getting tired of passing on to megasthals. Does the Minister agree with the analysis that part of the growth towards the mega-stables is also due to increased demands for investments in animal welfare, in emission reduction and all that kind of thing, which means that we need to have sufficient cost carriers in business to meet the requirements that we, as a government, impose on these companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-5.u18	There are several factors. It's not one factor that's playing along. It is also a fact that there are fewer and fewer successors. This also reduces the number of companies. I have just given an example of the price, which is under considerable pressure in some sectors. One can then produce if one has more mass. Sometimes it is also demands that are imposed. A set of factors plays a part in this. The important thing is that we always have to look for a farmer to be a farmer the way he wants it to be. We have frameworks for that; they exist. It is not the case, for example, that an external factor can only lead to a single business model. For that diversity, I want to make myself tough. That is also what the government's policy is aimed at.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-5.u19	Thank you. Let me now give the floor... Oh, Mr. De Groot has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-5.u20	Mr President, I was busy with my colleague on the cow in the meadow. That is exactly what my question is about. The bigger a dairy farmer, the harder it is to let those cows out. We all think it is desirable that the cows go outside. The sector thinks so, and the Chamber wants it to. Does the Minister see a limit on the size of an individual dairy farmer when it comes to grazing?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-5.u21	The sector has set itself an objective as regards the percentage of grazing that will have to be achieved in dairy farming. They made it. In the coalition agreement, we also agreed on this: the sector must meet its own objectives. I am glad to see that there are positive developments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-5.u22	Thank you.
