ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-5.u1	Let's see. Finally, we are going to the last question from Mrs Kröger, on behalf of GroenLinks, to the Minister for Infrastructure and Water State, whom I would also like to welcome. The question concerns tree hood in the Achterhoek.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Landscape pain: ancient historical landscape that disappears. The beautiful tree-lanes in the Achterhoek and in other parts of the Netherlands are also included. Small roads bordered by old oaks: everyone enjoys them. That is why emotions were high when the Minister proposed to increase road safety on N roads, which would include tree hoods. Road safety is of course incredibly important, but a tree is not drunk, a tree doesn't use drugs and a tree doesn't run too fast. Many people feared the disappearance of their beloved landscape. A petition against tree hood for road safety was signed in September over 50,000 times in no time. In the debate, the Minister said that cutting those trees would be an extreme means and that very careful action would be taken. She agreed to talk to the provinces. The Chamber also adopted a motion on this issue, tabled by the Christian Union, GroenLinks and D66. And now we are confronted with the hood of 343 zomeldigen along the N319 between Ruurlo and Groenlo. Similar messages also come in from other parts of the country. I would like to ask the Minister how she is implementing the motion adopted by the Chamber. Does she find the shade of more than 300 healthy trees fit within a very careful consideration? Have alternative traffic measures and additional speed controls been investigated as an approach? What role does Rijkswaterstaat play in ensuring that careful consideration is made? Finally, is the Minister prepared to talk to the province and the VNG about this consideration and evaluate the current review framework to really ensure that there is sufficient protection for those trees along the roads?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-5.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Kröger has put it very nicely, almost poeticly, and has therefore already given part of my answer. In fact, Mrs Kröger referred to what I said in the previous debate on safety in the river basins. We all know that a lot of accidents happen on the verges. We have agreed that we want to work on making these verges safer, but you have also recalled that I said at that time that it is an extremely important means of cutting the trees. Of course, you prefer to have a roadside without obstacles, which is what we like to call the "forgiving roadsides" in which bushes, for example, are in it. If there are obstacles that don't necessarily have to be trees, it can also be something else we first see if a guide rail or something else can be placed for it. As an extreme means, you then possibly go to the cutting of trees. In the arrangement we have now agreed on, half of the 50 million goes to our own national roads. That's where we'll shape this process tightly in this way. We will do the same for the 25 million used for the provincial roads in the N-roads. The province itself is the authority for the Nature Protection Act, so it has a first responsibility to take on its own. Then, of course, the municipality also has a power, because it will have to grant a hairdressing permit. I assume that everyone will take responsibility, but my line of policy is unchanged that it is a last resort.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-5.u5	Mr. Chairman. The Minister outlines a situation which may be entirely correct on paper and in line with the debate. However, the reality is that there are currently plans for large-scale hooding along these N-roads and also for local authorities to look at the state policy and say: well, according to these new directives, we are going to be able to get rid of them. Something's gonna go wrong. That is why my question to the Minister: can she talk to the provinces and the VNG about how this policy is being implemented? Can it come up with a directive which really does take all possible other action before it goes to tree-tops, and it must first be argued that it is the only option? Because we also talked in the debate about reducing speed and more specific controls on, for example, drinking. I'm not hearing the Minister about that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-5.u6	Then let me start with that. Of course I agree with Mrs Kröger that accidents always start with the human factor. We are committed in all kinds of ways to the safer behaviour of drivers. Mrs Kröger asks: are you prepared to enter the conversation? We have already had the conversation with provinces and municipalities, but I am always willing to bring this to the attention again. In order for provinces to be eligible for funding, there must be a justification not only for the need for road safety, but also, above all, for sustainability and nature value. So provinces will also have to provide that justification if they want to be eligible for subsidies from us. For the rest, I will strongly advise them to follow the same order on their own roads, on which we have no further control.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-5.u7	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-5.u8	Finally. I would like to ask the Minister if she can let us know as a Chamber whether she recognizes this as a problem, a problem arising from the policy she herself put in place last year when she indicated this change. I think it is very important that a directive should be put in place for local authorities, for provinces, on how only selective, individual-level tree cover should be used as a last resort, and that speed reduction and traffic checks should be carried out first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-5.u9	There's been a slight misunderstanding. I didn't put in a policy change. We have allocated an additional 50 million to promote the safety of the roadsides. It's gonna take a lot of money. It can sometimes also consist of a hardening of the berm, so you don't shoot off the road at once when it gets soft. It can also be in the guide rails or the guardrails, as most people call it. Again, the ultimate remedy can be removing an obstacle, so a tree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-5.u10	Thank you, Mrs Kröger. Mr Drost on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-5.u11	The motion to which Mrs Kröger refers is by Mrs Van der Staaij, among others... Sorry about Mrs. Van der Graaf, among others, so ours. To introduce a directive is nice, but it can also become a paper tiger if there is no further enforcement. Sometimes it is good to inform colleagues as a government in individual cases, in this case the province or the municipality of Berkelland, "what about that?'. 350 trees! 350 trees! 350 I cannot imagine that all 350 could not be preserved with alternatives. Has the Minister in this case informed the province, or the municipality that deals with this? Is that what happened in this case? I would also like to ask this on the basis of the motion adopted by the Chamber last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-5.u12	No, because at the moment, there is no interference from us. If a province wants this to be eligible, then we will assess it along that line. For the rest, it is up to the province to deal with this in a sensible way. They're themselves the authority for the Nature Protection Act, so I'm assuming they're looking into that. The municipality is responsible for a hairdressing permit. I would therefore urge them to consider all this very seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-5.u13	A tree in the berm is only cut if there is no other way to do it, if there is no alternative. What happened here seems quite contrary to that. Is the Minister prepared to have a serious discussion with the province concerned in order to prevent this from happening?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-5.u14	When they knock on my door for funding, we will of course immediately assess that. Then the interference is immediately clear. If there is a project of our own, we can discuss it with them, but I cannot act in their jurisdiction. I simply don't have one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-5.u15	I find it very difficult for the Minister to discharge all responsibility here. I would like to ask her whether she cannot come up with a directive on the weighing-up of local road managers, which really uses the roof of trees as a last resort. So a national directive for the balancing frameworks. Would the Minister like to look into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-5.u16	In general, we already have one. Of course, you can't catch that very easily exactly in rules. One tree isn't the other. One location isn't the other. That is why it is also important that the ultimate decision on this, the decision on the clearing permit, should be at the local level. That's where people can best estimate it. Under the Nature Protection Act, it is also up to the province as the competent authority to consider it. But again, if it gets on my plate, we'll put it against the bar this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-5.u17	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the oral questions. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments and then we shall vote.
