ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u1	I see that for the VAO the spokesmen and the minister are the same; so now we go straight to the VAO Future of math in vo and mbo. I give the floor to Mr Van Meenen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The discussion in general consultation focused mainly on secondary education. That's what my motion is about. As a group, we can fully support the proposals made by the executives for the MBO. It is important that this is where the path to vocationally oriented computational education is taken. I do not share the concerns about the transition that has emerged in a recent letter. I think it is very important that we take the road to proper computational education in secondary education. I do not see why that should lead us to retain an inferior test, as it is now. But my colleague will say a little more about that later. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll file my motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important for everyone to be able to count well and achieve this by providing good and early computational education;]] [[Whereas the Dutch Association of Mathematics Teachers, in cooperation with the Ministry and SLO, has drawn up a supported proposal for the calculation and testing of mathematics and other subjects in secondary education;]] [[calls on the Government to implement this proposal as a whole as soon as possible, but not later than the 2019-2020 school year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Meenen and Mr Rog. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31332-90]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What a mess. First we wait a long time for a proposal and then a debate is postponed, which means that teachers, among other things, live in uncertainty about what their work looks like, not in the long term, but in a few months, after the summer, while it seemed clear for some time now that the option that the Minister wanted to submit to the Chamber could not count on a majority. Anyway, there was a debate and that debate is likely to lead to a calculation test at the high school dropping out of the table and that arithmetic is just going to be part of mathematics. That seems very sensible to our group. It is also wise that the MBO can finally start teaching arithmetic and know where it is going, because teachers have been in uncertainty for far too long. Eventually, students just have to master a basic level. Then there's one more question. Yesterday we received a letter from the MBO Council, among others, but also from Hans de Boer of VNO-NCW. They seem to be hitting on an admission test for MBOs. They want to map the entrance levels. That cannot be the case as far as we are concerned. In fact, that's not the issue right now, no matter how low someone in high school scores for his math test. That was kind of the weird thing about that test. I would like the Minister to stress this once again: we are not going to interfere with the admission requirements for the MBO. I think that's very important. I would also like to make the request, although it goes a little too far for this VAO, or the Minister, in consultation with his colleague Mr O'Brien, because of course he is not going to be able to send a letter to the Chamber with a comprehensive response to all the points of the letter from, among other things, the MBO Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u4	Thank you, Mr. Kwint. I now give the floor to Mrs Westerveld on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u5	Mr. Chairman. Already in December 2013 experts came to the House of Representatives to crack the calculation test of the VVD, because not a third of the havists and vmbo'ers then passed a test. Experts said at the time that that was entirely logical, because good computational education was not possible. Now it is more than five years later and there is still no clarity. After last week's general consultation, the Minister sent us a letter with two alternatives. In short: alternative A does not guarantee good education, but does give students a test. Well, that's pretty clear for the MBO. Alternative B integrates mathematics into other subjects, ensures that students in secondary education do not suffer if they do not receive mathematics because the test does not count. But the MBO then fears that they will receive students who are not able to calculate properly. A broad coalition in the MBO is that stooge was sick. They are threatening now; Mr Kwint called it 'finning'; I think it was clear that they were actually saying: we are going to tighten up an admission requirement. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. GroenLinks thinks this is absolutely the wrong way, because you can't blame young people for making a mess of politics over the last few years. But I also fully understand the frustration of the various MBO organisations. That is why I hope that the Minister will find solutions as a matter of urgency, that we will invest in better computational education, that we will also invest in sufficient teachers, because the shortage is going to reach 140 next year alone, and that we will ensure that education remains accessible, including on the MBO and also on the so-called transition period. Because that's what young people need to be able to count on. Finally, a message to the Minister, because a certain percentage of children have dyscalculie. That's a learning disorder that makes them have a lot of trouble with mathematics. I hope that both ministers will continue to ensure that there is sufficient support for this group. Because young people should not be paid for their worst profession, let alone their disorder, because that does not do justice to the different talents that our students have.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u6	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. Mr Bertema on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u7	Mr. Chairman. Two motions. The first one is about the MBO. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there will only be an alternative to the calculation test from 2019-2020;]] [[noting that the MBO will therefore have to wait for years for programmes of vocational numeracy linked in a continuous learning line from MBO to VMBO and primary school;]] [[Considers that the MBO cannot afford to deliver graduates for years who do not have the necessary computing skills that are inextricably linked to their profession;]] [[calls on the government to develop professionally oriented calculation programmes as soon as possible for the MBO, apart from Curriculum.nu's developments,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beertema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31332-91]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u8	The final motion concerns the elimination of formal breach education. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, according to the Education Inspectorate, the level of primary and secondary education, in particular in mathematics and language, has fallen sharply over the last 20 years;]] [[Whereas the recommendation of Curriculum.nu's educational innovators to remove the calculation of formal divisions from primary education will further reduce the level of calculation;]] [[Whereas the calculation and linguistic disadvantages of pupils from promising families in primary and secondary education are combated by tutoring, that shadow education, which is not available to pupils from disadvantaged families;]] [[Considering that any limitation of the curriculum of primary education in the field of language or mathematics puts disadvantaged pupils at an even greater distance;]] [[calls on the government to ignore the development team's proposal for Calculum & Mathematics of Curriculum.nu and to maintain the calculation with formal fractions in primary education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beertema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31332-92]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u9	Thank you, Mr. Beertema. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u10	Mr. Chairman. Mathematics is part of mathematics; in context mathematics is called physics, geography, economics and so on. That's where it's headed. That's what this minister's gonna take care of. In doing so, schools are given more freedom to organise it according to their own judgment. That's good. Several motions have been tabled. I would like to look at all these motions in particular from the points of view: is it feasible and is it clear at any time what needs to be learned, what is being taught and how is being tested? Thirdly, are schools and teachers not being overloaded, are we also ensuring that there are simply no unnecessary rules? From these three points of view, I will assess the motions. I would therefore ask the Minister to deal with these aspects in particular, so that my group can assess how we will vote on the various motions that have been tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u11	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u12	Mr President, thank you. I shall confine myself to tabling two motions for resolutions and a brief reflection after the second one has been tabled. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important that pupils' numeracy skills are up to the level when leaving secondary education, so that both pupils and further education are left with as few obstacles as possible thereafter;]] [[calls on the Government, in conjunction with secondary education and further education, to adopt a method of testing which promotes the flow as far as possible, without unnecessary duplication of tests,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31332-93]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u13	And then the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas schools are entitled to a reliable, predictable course of education and examination;]] [[Considering that the time limit for the introduction of alternatives to the calculation test is now such a short one and that the impact on current pupils and on further education is so great that careful policies for the introduction of alternatives in the coming school year can no longer exist;]] [[calls on the government to take the central accounting test in the coming school year at least and to take a speedy decision on a method of testing which ensures the continuous learning line,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31332-94]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u14	Mr. Chairman. This is a shocking motion for some colleagues. I get that, too. That is why I would like to explain the following. This motion is designed to prevent yojo policy. Recently we introduced the central calculation test. We were mordic against that, but now he's here. We want it different, but it takes time. That is why we say that we are sticking to the way in which we have agreed at the moment. We are working with speed on a different method of testing. The coalition will then be able to discuss with each other in peace, whether it should be more central or whether it should be decentralized by school. They also need a little more rest. That's how this motion should be read. That could lead to House-wide support, I suspect. Mr President, I would like to make this clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u15	That's what I thought. Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u16	I do not know exactly where to start, but this seems to me to be a bit of a yo-yo policy of the SGP. Mr Bishop cannot maintain in all seriousness that the test as we know it at the moment, which is so much substantive criticism that has always been shared by the SGP and which does not count, would give an indication of the state of arithmetic education of the prospective student. Mr Bishop can't stand it, can he?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u17	That central math test is a disaster, let's face it. It's no different. Except that's where you set out policy. If you want to reverse that policy and abolish it, you have to do it carefully. It reminds me a bit of the abolition of the referendum. That was a disaster, but if you're gonna abolish it, you're gonna have to get rid of it carefully. That parallel might be enlightening.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u18	Finally, Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u19	This isn't helping me at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u20	No one heard what Mr. Kwint said outside the microphone, Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u21	No, I'm gonna let it go. Something carefully abolished you do when it's something valuable. Then you have to deal with it carefully. I understand. But here we have a disaster in our hands, Mr Bishop says so himself, and we are going to continue with it for a year. No one's been served by that. The alternative describes very well what should also be done in the intermediate phase. Does Mr Bishop agree with me that any attention that is still devoted to this inferior test is completely wasted energy, which could be put into the quickest possible introduction of the alternative and the intermediate steps that need to be taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u22	I share the view that this must be done as quickly as possible. Only on the road to it do I disagree with Mr Van Meenen. I think you should give yourself time to prepare carefully for that. Well, you'd better help yourself. If you've had an accident, sometimes you have to help yourself with crutches. Well, let's do that. Then, hopefully, we'll be able to move on together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u23	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. I now give the floor to Mr Rudmer Heerema on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Last Friday we received a letter from the Minister with an indication of the timetable when we move towards the integration of mathematics into mathematics. We have a motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the proposal of the Dutch Association of Mathematics Teachers may require several years of implementation;]] [[Whereas it is important for everyone to be able to count well and to prevent pupils and students currently in education from being insufficiently prepared for their further education, entry into the labour market and social functioning;]] [[Whereas the MBO Council, NRTO, BVMBO, Platform Mathematical Teachers MBO, Platform Mathematical Education VO, JOB, VNO-NCW and SMB-Netherlands warn against chaos if the current calculation test is not continued in both vo and mbo;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that computational education remains at the level during the period when arithmetic education is not yet integrated into mathematics,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Rudmer Heerema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31332-95]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u25	I hear Mr Heerema tabling this motion. I want to ask how the VVD thinks you're bringing education to a certain level.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u26	Does that relate to the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u27	It's in my motion. I would like to know from the Minister what possibilities he sees to ensure that we do not get a dip in the level of mathematics, if we move the integration of mathematics for a number of years rather than introduction next year. On the contrary, a number of civil society organisations warn that the level of calculation is insufficient, and so they want, for example, to create entrances and the like. That is what we want to prevent. We are looking for ways of ensuring that, in the meantime, if this integration does not go fast enough, something is being done for computational education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u28	Finally, Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u29	I find that interesting. At the same time, we all know that the teacher is at the heart of good education. We know that the number of teachers will decrease in the near future. I am very curious to see how Mr Heerema sees that statement in the light of his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u30	For example, we have the performance box resources that 2020 releases in the lumpsum. Part of this is now financed by calculation teachers. I imagine that, in the run-up to the release of these funds, you are going to talk with schools about how these resources can be used to strengthen and strengthen the teaching of mathematics in schools. That is just an important part of the future of these children.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u31	I don't understand the motion very well. I understand the spirit, but it's a beautiful weather motion. We all want nice weather and free beer. How are you going to do that? Surely you cannot ask the Minister in a motion: make sure that this stays at the level? Then Mr. Bishop of the SGP is much clearer. He says, "Let's just continue with that imperfect math test that was there." Why don't you join us?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u32	I have indicated in general consultation that I do not attach much importance to a test. I want to see an improvement in computational education in the Netherlands and a review of it. You can do that in a mathematics exam. This is allowed for students who do not have mathematics now but do have to have the calculation level also in a separate test moment. I do not rule out supporting Mr Bishop's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u33	Then why this extended motion? I wouldn't know what to do with it. I would like to, but you do not give any indication of how you want to make it concrete. You're just calling on the Minister: "Oh, look how we can keep it up to level." The minister hasn't done anything else in ten years and he's not coming out! Then such a motion would be completely empty, wouldn't it? Then it's just a motion of good intentions, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u34	In reply to Mrs Westerveld, I think I have indicated where there might be financial space. I wonder how the Minister looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u35	I think the money from the performance box has already been spent ten times by the coalition. But Mr Heerema explicitly refers in his motion to the letter from VNO-NCW and the MBO Council, which, in turn, write very explicitly: yes, we need to check the level of our students, so we are going to impose conditions and take some sort of entrance test. Would it be an acceptable outcome for the VVD of this discussion that the MBO is about to take its own admission tests?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u36	I'm just trying to stop something like this from happening. That is why the level of calculation at schools must be sufficient to ensure that our students are able to count adequately. I do not think it is appropriate at the moment to say that schools should put down these admission requirements and ensure that students all have to take a test to get into the school at all. I think it is much more important to strengthen the teaching of mathematics in schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u37	We'll share that. I just don't quite understand the problem that arises at once when passing on to further education if a crippled test fails that doesn't count for your exam, because I don't think you're losing much. Does Mr Heerema agree with me that the end of this discussion should never be that we are about to take our own admission tests and we are therefore going to morter in the current legal admission requirements for the MBO?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u38	In my opinion, I have made my position very clear in the AO with regard to the calculation test. As for a flawed pass-through test that doesn't count, I've already indicated that I want to be tested. I don't really care what time that's gonna take place. If the outcome of this discussion is that, with the freedom it seems to me to have, it is going to tighten up or at least set down the admission requirements for mathematics, I do not think that would be desirable. That's exactly what I'm trying to avoid and get ahead of.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u39	Thank you. Finally, Mr Rog on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u40	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, the CDA would like us to quickly implement the plan for secondary education, a new perspective, of the Dutch Association of Mathematics Teachers. To this end, I tabled a motion together with Mr Van Meenen of D66. For the MBO, we would like to support the policies of the directors and quickly get more professionally oriented. As the Minister wrote in his letter to the Chamber, there is broad agreement on the starting point that the current calculation test should disappear. Unlike the SGP, it is important for my group that we maintain a test that is so controversial only if it is strictly necessary. As far as we are concerned, this means introducing the alternative per next school year. That also means something for that math test every next year. To that end, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Government Agreement provides that this Cabinet intends to strengthen and improve computational education and that an alternative to the existing calculation test will enter into force no later than the 2019-2020 school year;]] [[Considering that the alternative to the existing calculation test "A new perspective for calculation in secondary education" has been available since February 2018, which allows calculation to become an integrated part of the curriculum and the exam;]] [[calls on the Government to abolish the existing calculation test in secondary education as from the 2019-2020 school year and to no longer include a figure of the calculation test on the list from that school year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Rog and Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31332-96]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u41	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u42	Thank you, Mr. Rog. I see that the Minister can respond directly to the questions and motions tabled. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Chamber for its input. Last week we had a rather intensive and fascinating general discussion on an issue which has been on the agenda of national politics for many years. When it comes to the proposals put forward by the cabinet, there is no difference of opinion at all. This is full integration of mathematics and other subjects into mathematics, after an x-number of years ago was chosen to keep that separate. We know that this can only be fully integrated once the curriculum review has been completed and a translation into exam programs. There was a difference of opinion about what we're going to do in the interim period. I say to Mrs Westerveld that the integration of mathematics and other subjects is already possible, but we know that not everything is yet completely covered. The difference of opinion is: should there still be a visible figure? By the way, the digital calculation test is also going to disappear in the government's plans, but we are asking schools to maintain a visible figure for calculation until final integration has finally taken place. We believe that this is in the interest of the continuous learning lines in the direction of the MBO. Their letter also shows that they are concerned that it will disappear. But it's also in the interest of those students who don't have mathematics. I indicated, also in the Friday letter sent by my colleague and I, that they are about 15,000 pupils at VMBO level, a large part of which is in the basic professional and managerial department, as well as about 3,000 students at HAVO. We must come up with a solution to this at the time we choose to move to part No. 90 by Mr Van Meenen and Mr Rog. We know that in the cabinet's plan the integration of mathematics can simply take place, so there is agreement on that too. But we do know that we won't have a visible figure. That may be a choice, but we also know that there will be a real problem for the students who do not have mathematics, because we have not yet arranged for them to take a separate school exam. We haven't arranged that yet, because we need more time to do so. This could only happen in the course year 2020-2021. Then there is a gap for these students that we don't have a solution for for a while, which is worrying. It is, of course, ultimately up to the Chamber. I reject this motion because we stand for our own proposal. It is up to the Chamber to consider when deciding on this motion that at least there will be a problem for these pupils and that something will have to be done about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u44	A brief question, Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u45	Of course, we are not going to repeat the whole debate, but I would like to emphasise two things. One: the minister re-establishes the relationship with Curriculum.nu. I would like to stress once again that there is no such thing in my view. This can be done independently of the curriculum. Secondly: the alternative of the Association of Mathematics Teachers also provides for that intermediate phase, namely with a temporary separate school test, I'll just mention it for a moment. That is why my motion has been formulated as it has been formulated, namely the alternative including that intermediate phase.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u46	When I talk about the final effects of Curriculum.nu, I mean full integration translated into exam programs. I admit to Mr Van Meenen that we have also stated ourselves that in our plan the integration of mathematics and other subjects can already take place, even though we know that the reference levels are not yet fully covered, even when it comes to the final assessment. Then there's the students who don't have math. Indeed, the plan of the Dutch association of mathematics teachers states that they must have a separate test. In our letter of Friday, we indicated that we should have a legal basis for this. It takes more time to realize that than we have to do in the coming course year. Integration can indeed take place, but at least there will be no legal basis for these pupils; this will only take place a year later. We find that problematic. You know that this is not a problem in our own proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u47	This is a VAO, so we're not going to repeat the general consultation. So really short questions, but also a short response from the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u48	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. If we want it here, we can bring about legislation very quickly. Turns out it's around Brexit. I don't want to align the math and Brexit right now, but we can if we want to. So I would say: if we decide it in a majority here now, let's just do it, and then we can do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u49	We must, of course, start from how normal legislative processes are implemented, and then it will be a longer term, as Mr Van Meenen knows. I think it is also just fair to state this here and to give it to the Chamber, in view of the opinion it will give on this motion. Mr. Chairman. First of all, Mr Kwint said that he would have difficulty with an admission test in the MBO. In the letter he more or less sees a hint. Others see that even more strongly. Let it be clear that an amendment of the law is needed to carry out an authorisation test. Perhaps that can be done very quickly, if we follow the same paths as Mr Van Meenen's birthday boy suggests today, but that also calls for a political judgment. The letter shows, of course, that people are simply struggling with the fact that there will be no visible figure until it is fully integrated. They'll have more faith in it. One actually wants to keep the finger on the wrist, also in the context of the continuous learning lines. My colleague has already had a consultation with the MBO Council today, which also involved the Association of Colleges and the VSNU. If our plan is implemented, then the letter is in that sense that one can fully agree with it. If any other motions are adopted by this Chamber, we will discuss them again on the basis of the result of the vote. We will, of course, inform the Chamber about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u50	That's good, of course. But should the motions be passed, will the Minister still have a discussion with his colleague to update us on that letter? That's what I'm curious about anyway. I may be able to ask that again on Tuesday after the vote, but that seems a little superfluous. And I am also curious about the intentions of this cabinet. That a law amendment can be made quickly, I believe, but you are not going to work immediately on Tuesday afternoon to make an admission test for the MBO legally possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u51	The cabinet submitted a proposal to the Chamber. We hope, of course, that we will be able to get a majority of the Chamber behind that. I realise very well, also on the basis of what changed last week, that it is still waiting to see how the vote on the part "what are we doing in the interim phase and for which variant do we choose?" will walk and that it may end differently. But it goes without saying that we are just waiting for that to happen. I think that the President will also find this to be an orderly way of doing things.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u52	That's the way it's supposed to be. Sure. Mr. Kwint knows that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u53	So we're not getting ahead of ourselves. Then, first of all, Mrs Westerveld said something about the alternative a. I think that, of course, this should simply mean that we need to have good arithmetical education, with one difference, namely that there is still a visible figure until it is fully integrated. Your qualification of alternative a was therefore, I think, not entirely in line with what we have said about it. I think you are right that we should invest in good computing at all levels. I also made it clear to you last week that a great deal of attention has been paid to this and a great deal of money has gone to it. We also hope that the infrastructure that has been built up for this will not suddenly fall away in a situation which will be considered undesirable. Around dyscalculie, I can tell you that we promised the SP, in the person of your colleague, some time ago that we would map out how these pupils are being treated in schools. You will receive the report on the appropriate education and progress report in June at the latest. If there really is a blind spot in it, then we will of course also indicate how we think this should be remedied, because this is an important subject. You will therefore be further informed about this in the slipstream of your colleague, Mr Kwint, who has rightly been the first to draw attention to it. Mr. Chairman. Mr Beertema has tabled two motions. In his first motion, that is the motion in part No. 91.............................................................................................................................................................. If we take the Cabinet's alternative, I do not think there is any reason for that. In fact, therefore, you preach a little bit of the fact that alternative b from the letter, of which we have also properly mapped out what it means, may get a majority in the Chamber. But we won't know until the vote. I would therefore ask you to hold this motion. But it goes without saying that, if there is to be another situation, we will, of course, anticipate it. That is also in line with the request to reply to the letter. Your motion has already been tabled, should there be a majority in favour of Mr Van Meenen and Mr Rog's motion, but then everything is in the right order, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u54	I'll hold the motion for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u55	At the request of Mr Beertema, I propose his motion (33332), No. 91). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u56	Mr. Chairman. The motion on the fractures in part No. I must advise against this, but I do not think Mr Bertema will be surprised. I have a very clear reason for that. The developers are busy. They are now also working on making the intermediate products they are making. These are different products to make public, so that everyone can respond to them. This is an intermediate product that even made the front page of De Telegraaf. That's very special, because other teams don't have such a broad platform to get attention for what they do. Now the schools, including those involved in the whole process, can react. Eventually, around the summer, just before or just after, I will get the building blocks myself. That is only when we are going to give our opinion and submit it to you. I think we should not try to make things impossible with motions in that direction, no matter what we think about intermediate products. Let that debate be conducted. It's nice to see it's fed. I think Curriculum.now's fame has increased a little since last week. That will do Mr Kwint a great deal of good, because he has regularly called for attention to be paid to this. I advise against this motion. Mr. Chairman. Mr Bruins has indicated how he himself will look at tabled motions. He didn't ask me any questions. Mr Bishop does two interesting things, I think, from my point of view. First of all, he said that it was very important that there should be consultation with the schools in relation to calculation and that we should also discuss how to test it in a good way. This motion, in part No. 93 is in line with what the cabinet has proposed. We even want to provide additional support in the form of a keyboard and hand-helds. If that is in line with what we have proposed, then I can give this motion a Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the next motion by Mr Bishop, the motion in part No. 94 on the taking of the calculation test in the next school year. It is not necessary to do so because of the proposal made by the cabinet, because we are going to abolish it afterwards. All we have left is a visible figure in the interim period. From the point of view of our own proposal, I therefore advise against this motion. I have to tell you that it is very tempting to say now: if that gap is to arise for students who do not have mathematics in particular, I really see a problem when Mr Van Meenen and Mr Rog's motion is adopted, then this is a very attractive relapse option. I have to dissuade this motion, even if it is a matter of a matter of a sec ond judgment from our proposal, but you will hear my reasoning in relation to the other scenario. Mr. Chairman. I would like to make one more comment about this digital final test, because the picture is now being put down that it is still the old test, which has indeed received a lot of criticism at the beginning. In the meantime, things have happened. The sharp criticism of the beginning is therefore no longer entirely perseverable at the moment, I think. Mr. Chairman. Mr Heerema has tabled a motion for a resolution which is the motion in part No. 95 In which he asks the Cabinet to keep arithmetic education at a level during the period when arithmetic education is not yet integrated into mathematics. Within the framework of the cabinet's proposal, we can guarantee that we have provided sufficient guarantees for this, including those students who do not have mathematics. I have already indicated to you that if our proposal does not reach the final stage, there will be a problem on the MBO section, see also the letter on the continuous learning lines. There really is a question with regard to the students who do not have mathematics. That is a very vulnerable group when it comes to vmbo, and another part of the students of the havo. So I cannot give a clear opinion on this. On the basis of our own plan, it is in any case settled and this motion would actually be superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u57	And if it's unnecessary, then it's just "dissuade."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u58	Then I'd advise her, because we've already included it in our plans ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u59	That's the assessment framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u60	But I understand what is happening here, because Mr Heerema is also looking at the first motion that has been tabled. Then there is indeed a problem and I cannot guarantee it fully, because we do not yet have enough opportunities for those students to do something. It's gonna take longer. There's a year's gap.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u61	I think there is a gap of at least a year, so I conclude when I read your letter from last Friday. Do I hear the Minister say very clearly that if Mr Van Meenen's first motion reaches this Chamber, the level of computational education in the Netherlands cannot remain guaranteed for an x-number of years? That's how I understand it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u62	At least then there will be a problem for the students who do not have mathematics in their package. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Dat zijn er zo'n 18.000.]] There are 200,000 students who do have it in their package. For them, we can simply start with whatever the cabinet wanted, namely integration. Then there is no visible number. We have had the discussion about why or why not. But that's just what people are going to do. Something will have to be found for the other students. They are currently operated because it is offered separately and a separate number is given for it. Then we will have to see how it is taken care of in schools, even if there is no legal basis for making a school exam compulsory for these students. That's gonna take a while. That is apart from the scenario outlined by Mr Van Meenen that it might also be possible to speed up. So I see a problem there. That didn't just go away. Anyway, a man suffers the most from the suffering he fears. Let's wait for the vote first. It's not next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u63	Mr. Van Meenen, you just came.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u64	Mr. Chairman. The gentlemen were just reviewing my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u65	But since it's your birthday, congratulations, by the way...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u66	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u67	... may you make one small comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u68	I'll kiss you in a minute. Well, at least I hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u69	You're me. Well, it doesn't matter. We'll make it work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u70	You're getting all confused.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u71	These are wonderful moments!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u72	Well, the suggestion is made that if the calculation test as we know it isn't there, the world will fall into chaos. That seems a little too much honour to me for this 'Fyra of Education', as the Minister once called it in the past, when he was a Member of Parliament. Well, I just wanted to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u73	You've made your point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u74	Mr President, there is one more motion. But the math test as it stands is also going to disappear in our plans. Let there be no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u75	The final motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u76	Mr President, the final motion. The motion by Mr Rog and Mr Van Meenen to item No. 96 is submitted in a very isolated manner. As part of the cabinet's plan, the existing calculation test will also disappear, but there will be something else around it. If this motion is tabled in this way, without knowing what is going to happen around it, then we cannot leave it to the Chamber. So I advise against this motion. But again, even in the plans of the cabinet, the calculation test expires. Only we will keep a visible figure until full integration has taken place. We will follow the vote with interest next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u77	I'm a little surprised at the Minister's judgment. In my opinion, we agreed in the coalition agreement that the alternative to the calculation test will be introduced by 2019-2020 and that the current calculation test will continue until then. I think it is precisely through the combination of Mr Van Meenen's and me's motion and this motion that a complete picture emerges in a very correct way. We have seen the debate, in which we have invited the Minister to embrace what he saw coming into the Chamber, and that there is also a majority in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u78	Mr Rog is going to table a motion in isolation. It is not integrated with other motions, wherever the complete story is told. I have already indicated that in the cabinet's proposals the calculation test will also disappear, we hope from the next course year. But then we have an alternative around it, which we think is a good alternative for that interim period. There is therefore no difference of opinion as to its purpose. The only difference of opinion I won't make it any bigger than it is, but also not smaller.. is about what we do in the interim period. We have, I think, exchanged enough about that over the past week and again today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u79	Finally, Mr. Rog.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u80	I would almost like to persift a former colleague: I am prepared to strike a staple through the two motions tabled by Mr Van Meenen and myself. Then we have it completely in view. The deal was: next year we change the situation, that alternative comes into effect and stops the calculation key. That is also what I believe a large majority of the House has voted on. The Minister is now relying on all kinds of possible consequences for a small group and is going to discourage this motion. To be honest, I have a problem with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u81	This Minister defended the complete proposal made by the cabinet last week. That's what he's doing now. I have indicated that I know that there are other views in the Chamber about that interim period. As soon as they get a majority of the Chamber, we will, of course, continue to work on this. I have pointed out, however, a number of things that are coming our way in the implementation process. In last Friday's letter, you can read that back very carefully. We're gonna have to find our way with that, too. And it's not a small group of students, because they're 18,000 students we care for. I am also trying to give full content to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u82	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this VAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-29.u83	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I'm suspending the meeting until 6:35 p.m. Then we will continue the debate on Dutch military support for Syria.
