ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-2.u1	As usual, we always start oral Question Time on Tuesday afternoon. We begin with Mr Sneller's question on behalf of D66 to the Minister of Finance, whom I welcome, about the coverage of DNB's role in the money laundering affair at ING. I call Mr Sneller on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would also like to thank the Minister for coming back from Brussels specifically to clarify this. The reason lies in a serious matter. ING received the highest fine ever in the Netherlands last year, for money laundering. We then held extensive hearings and a debate in the Chamber. I, as well as other colleagues, have been critical of the role of De Nederlandsche Bank, the supervisor of our banks. Because how could ING's money laundering go on under the nose of that supervisor for years? And how could DNB be so satisfied with her own supervision here in the Chamber? During that debate, the Minister repeatedly mentioned the action of De Nederlandsche Bank. He came to this conclusion after having received answers from DNB to four questions. But now NRC's research shows that not only those questions, but also the answers were addressed in advance. It appears that the answers were drawn up in consultation with the Ministry, but that the answers were also exchanged and commented on repeatedly and to the highest level. Mr. Chairman. This evokes a bad picture of political interference with an independent supervisor, the supervisor responsible for the supervision of our banks. Therefore, the following questions to the Minister. Was the Ministry of Finance consciously sent to certain answers from DNB? And did that happen the other way around? Or has it been sent for the omission of certain questions and certain answers, for example a critical and logical question about the functioning of DNB, when it comes to the supervision of ING? And how can the Minister reconcile this process with the independence of De Nederlandsche Bank?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-2.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also to Mr Sneller for the precision. I think it would be a good idea to outline some of the context of what has happened, including for all those in the Finance Ministry who have been working on this matter. On that Friday morning, August 31, I received a brief message of what was coming. At that time, of course, it was obvious that this would have extremely great implications. At that point, however, you could not yet see exactly what that was like, for the simple reason that I have often exchanged this information with the Chamber, that we only received that information a few days later, namely at the time when the criminal record went out. I am generally quite optimistic, but that is a time when I also ask officials: think about all possible repercussions on the financial system and on the stability of this particular bank, and whether this money laundering problem has only occurred here or wider. That is a period in which you are very intensively thinking and searching, with some important limitations. The first limitation is that we do not have that criminal record until Tuesday morning, so I say, out of my mind. The second point, and I shall say a few words about it, is that we do not, of course, have any supervisory, confidential information. That's what makes it so complicated. Mr Sneller asks: what about these concepts? For the record, and that's why I really don't recognize what's written in the article: there are clarifying questions from the ministry to DNB. Let me also give you two examples mentioned in the article. For example, DNB wrote in a concept that agreements are made with boards of directors if there are breaches of laws and regulations. NRC writes that down and DNB wrote that in a concept. Then there are officials from the Ministry of Finance who ask: did that actually happen? That seems to me to be a very legitimate question. Next, De Nederlandsche Bank itself decides that it will be written down in a different way. Same with that other example cited: DNB wrote in the concept that integrity is a spearhead in the vision of supervision. That too has been asked: does it not exist any longer? That is where the text has been left. These seem to me to be valid questions, because De Nederlandsche Bank is absolutely independent in the supervision, but I am responsible for it at ministerial level. So, to be honest, I think that it is absolutely justified that such a case should be brought before the Court of Justice. Mr. Chairman. A second important point. Then I think I have answered two of Mr Sneller's other questions. The question he has rightly asked before is whether DNB has done this right or not. Of course I asked De Nederlandsche Bank, both by telephone and later, in the consultation itself, how they reflect on this. How did you do it? Should you have more resources? Did you, given the resources you had, do it in a sensible and prudent way? Again, the context is important. I would, of course, like to judge it, like the Chamber, but I do not have the confidential supervisory information. As I have also indicated in the Chamber, my judgment is by definition based on incomplete information. I then said: if I look through the hairs of my eyes at the measures that could have been taken and the measures that have been taken, then I think that this picture is adequate. I also added that De Nederlandsche Bank said to me, but also in the hearing against the Chamber, that De Nederlandsche Bank itself, looking back with the knowledge of today, would have preferred to have done more. Then what's the last piece of the puzzle? That is that, of course, we have more powers these days. Since the summer of last year, for example, we have made public fines. That is another piece that helps in transparency, I think. However, I wanted to make my assessment very clear in that context. That is why I want to make the issue of the'supervisory confidentiality', which means that I do not have all the information, as well as what DNB itself has said about it, an explicit part of the discussion about the adequate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-2.u5	Mr. Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-2.u6	I believe that the Minister clearly explains why there is an independent supervisor and that the Minister should not be given information about individual institutions either. That sometimes is frustrating, I understand very well. Only, if you then go along with concepts three times and respond to draft letters, then you give the impression that there is more interference with that independent supervision than we should want in the separate powers that exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-2.u7	Yeah, but that's exactly why I'm trying to formulate here. I think it makes sense for you to ask all kinds of questions the moment this gets unraveled, the moment this happens. That goes for the Ministry and also for me personally. You ask all kinds of critical questions: what if this, what if as a sister, we have so, why not that? That seems perfectly valid to me. These are questions that we have all asked the regulators. Then there are indeed concepts shared. Again, clear questions have been asked about the concepts. To be honest, I also find the two examples cited in the article highly justifiable. I also think it is wise that someone at the Ministry of Finance should say: "You write down that agreements are always made with boards of directors if there are violations of laws and regulations. Is that right? Can you make that happen?" That's the opposite of keeping the supervisor out of the wind. You ask: you write it down; did you actually do it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-2.u8	I understand that there's a memo on the Minister's desk that says, "Get ready for this." But the Minister must also take a step back and reflect on what this looks like and what appearance is created when concepts go back and forth up to three times? That is not once in a conversation questions to the supervisor "be careful in your answers and think carefully about this," but that is repeatedly almost co-written with the letter which is then passed on to the Chamber. Surely those scrolls shouldn't be mixed like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-2.u9	That is why I try to indicate the following in all precision. Yes, the supervisor is absolutely independent. But, yes, it is also a body under my ministerial responsibility. That's just the way it is. Let me give you the other example. Suppose there had been a number of things in that letter, for example that phrase I just quoted, and then Mr Sneller had asked me: can you confirm this, that these agreements are made with the boards of directors, if there have been violations of laws and regulations? Suppose I had to say, no, actually, no. Then Mr Sneller, I think, could have rightly said to me: yes, but I am sorry, Minister, but you are also responsible for that phrase in this particular letter. So that, I think, is a relevant fact. Both these things are true: that ministerial responsibility is true and that independence is true. And once again, it was not a small matter, so that officials are asked for extra security at sentence level as well, that is something I think can be defended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-2.u10	The fact that this is a serious issue is, fortunately, something we are all agreed on. The question then is: can the Minister guarantee 100% that he has remained within his role, that he has respected the independence of De Nederlandsche Bank and that he has done so throughout the process?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-2.u11	Yes, but about my role towards De Nederlandsche Bank. I would also like to take away another suggestion from that article. I also asked in those conversations, a little less domestic, but: how do you feel about that? That's also a logical question. So with regard to the different roles that all parties have in this, all of this, has gone in an appropriate and sensible way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-2.u12	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-2.u13	I do keep the necessary questions myself, but I understand that the Minister at least did not ask the question he now calls logical to De Nederlandsche Bank, namely: how do you reflect on your supervisory role in relation to ING?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-2.u14	No, Mr. Chairman, I have...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-2.u15	Is he willing to put that question to you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-2.u16	No, Mr President, that question I gave to Mr Oomen-Ruijten I did indeed ask, in my opinion and in a telephone conversation and certainly in physical conversations. After that, the question was, of course, put both administratively and politically.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-2.u17	But not in the four questions which were then answered in writing by De Nederlandsche Bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-2.u18	No, but to be honest, there are still a large number of questions that have naturally also been mentioned in those talks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-2.u19	I understand that, but this is the crux that we also exchanged in the Chamber debate on the role of De Nederlandsche Bank during 2010-2016. And that question has been left out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-2.u20	Mr. Chairman. I really believe that the four questions we have asked are very relevant questions to the supervisor. Mr Sneller is now making a distinction between that one question and the other four. I would not call that one question 'the crux', but it has been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-2.u21	Thank you, Mr. Faster. Mr Nijboer, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-2.u22	Mr. Chairman. I have a lot of questions, but I'm asking two. The Minister says today: "With the knowledge of today, De Nederlandsche Bank would have wanted to do more about the ING affair," while he said here earlier, and De Nederlandsche Bank also said: "it has been adequate." What is it now? That's my first question. And the second question is: the Minister has told the Chamber that he has asked four questions to De Nederlandsche Bank and the reconstruction of the NRC now shows that he already had the answer to those questions and that that was already attuned. Is that right? And did the minister fool us here and perform a play?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-2.u23	No, Mr. Chairman. First of all, let me ask you that first question. The Dutch Bank itself has said here, to the Chamber, that one would have liked to do more "with the knowledge of today," or in similar words, which at least resemble: "if you look back you would have liked to do more." I understand that too, and that was explained to me at the table. I also think it makes sense that when something goes wrong, you think afterwards: shouldn't I have done more? That's a relevant fact, but I'll put it next to that... Again, I do not have the information that De Nederlandsche Bank has, but if I consider that and consider what DNB has written about it, if I consider how it went with DNB and the Public Prosecutor's Office and the FIOD together, I have said in the Chamber that I think that is appropriate, if I look at it through the hairs of the eye. And both of those things are true. That it makes an adequate impression on me, with the imperfect, incomplete information I have, and that De Nederlandsche Bank himself says so, and I think that they are right in saying that, looking back, of course, they would have preferred to do more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-2.u24	Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-2.u25	Mr. Chairman. I asked two questions. This was the answer to the first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-2.u26	Mr President, I asked those four questions. Of course, you ask those questions at the very first moment they occur to you, but then they are also put in a formal sense and information needs to be asked out. Mr Nijboer knows what four questions I have asked. There you get a first answer to a conversation, but then there is also a lot of research to be done. The suggestion that it would have been just for the stage is simply not correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-2.u27	However, there are a number of other quotes in the paper. What strikes me is that the officials actually asked questions similar to those of the MPs. They said that the fines previously issued by De Nederlandsche Bank could also have been higher. Has De Nederlandsche Bank been sleeping as a supervisor? Well, he did drop. My point is that we had those questions as MPs. We have had a hearing with De Nederlandsche Bank, but we don't really know anymore, because of the interference of Finance with the answers and questions of De Nederlandsche Bank, what the answers of De Nederlandsche Bank are actually suggesting. And we need to check you and De Nederlandsche Bank. How do we do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-2.u28	Let me just pull two things apart. The first is that, of course, I myself was the first to say, after I had that information I received just before the Council of Ministers when I came back to the Ministry on Friday, that we did not have that file and I want to think about every variant that you can just conceptually think about, I want to think about all what ifs. What does it mean for the stability of this bank? What impact does the potential have on other banks in the country? What about it? What about the quality of supervision? Has it been adequate? And-and-and-and-and-and-and. Of course, you start from a lot of negative scenarios, because that's what you're looking for insurance for. To be honest, I have always tended to ask that kind of question in such cases, and that is what the Treasury has done. I think that's correct, that an organization should. Then the second. Of course, this letter can also be taken for what it is, namely a letter from De Nederlandsche Bank. For I think, quite frankly, that it is also prudent, prudent in the two factual examples that we are referring to here, that officials seem to have put these specific questions back with me. Again, precisely the first example is the opposite of keeping the supervisor out of the wind. The question has simply been asked: you postulate that you always do this with boards of directors and supervisory boards, can you confirm that? Then it disappears from the letter. This seems to me to be a well-balanced and sensible course of action.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-2.u29	Mr. Chairman. We are talking specifically about ING again, but of course this is a much wider problem. It is a structural problem for the banks. The Minister has just indicated that it is logical that at that moment, as a ministry, as soon as it comes out, you should ask a number of questions. One of them is whether it plays with other banks. He probably got an answer to that, because Rabobank also received a fine for failing to check money laundering today, as shown by another newspaper.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-2.u30	What's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-2.u31	If he was given that answer then why does the Chamber only hear it today through the newspaper when we have had a wide-ranging debate with the Cabinet on this matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-2.u32	Because I read that in the paper yesterday. That information is supervisory confidential information and then I am back to the answer I just gave to Mr Nijboer: I am trying to judge how DNB has acted, but not having the information that De Nederlandsche Bank does have. So when I asked De Nederlandsche Bank what was going on, of course I did get a broader answer about what was going on in the sector. At that time, we also exchanged information, which we then re-emphasized extensively in the Chamber, that it seems appropriate, wise, to take more steps on the sharing of information, because banks on the one hand have to do a lot more, but on the other hand they run into the indiscretions they now feel in the exchange of information. But I really didn't get "a, b and c is still going on" and De Nederlandsche Bank can't give me that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-2.u33	Mr. Chairman. The Minister has just informed us that we all confirm that this is not a small matter. We have an independent administrative body, but this minister is responsible for that. The question is, now that DNB has failed seriously, why the Minister, now the responsible one, has not taken any action against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-2.u34	That's an image I really think I should fight. I think a lot is going well at De Nederlandsche Bank. I also think that the supervision of money laundering and banks is going well, but that DNB is also very helpful with the additional tools provided by politics. But De Nederlandsche Bank (The Netherlands Bank) and then I'm back to what I just said to Mr Nijboer. You said yourself to the Chamber and to me: looking back you would have liked to do more. So it might have been a little more, but you would not have come near the spectrum that Mrs Van Brenk is describing here, as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-2.u35	That officials want extra information, I can justify it. The Minister stressed that additional questions had been asked in particular. In the end, you want a letter to contain all the information you might need. The problem is that in nrc.next it says that the Ministry has contributed to the answers to itself. Can the Minister make it clear that that did not happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-2.u36	Again, even in the case of questioning, my firm impression is that there have been clear questions about these kinds of passages. It is true, of course, that all the questioners are right in saying that in this case three concepts were obviously involved, but I think that is really fair. If I'd heard it was four or two, I'd have believed it, too. But I understand very well that people think officially, just as I thought politically: you have to want to know about the hat and the edge here. You have to be sure that it is true, also because the Chamber really wants to be able to trust the information contained in it. I find these two examples, though I repeat what I just said to two of the previous speakers, rather proof of professionalism. One is also not at all in favour of DNB. That's different than: let's make something beautiful out of this and send anyone with a rug in the reed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-2.u37	You did say that, didn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-2.u38	Looking at this, it is not at all about which four questions have been asked. The suggestion raised in the document is that he actually agreed to it as a kind of strategy with Mr Klaas Knot. The suggestion in the piece is that they went to the ministry together with DNB to figure out how to get through this, so it's not about those four questions at all. The question is to what extent the minister in advance with Mr Knot, President of De Nederlandsche Bank, thought that this DNB could potentially harm and that this was the way to pull them through.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-2.u39	There's no way that's gonna happen. During that weekend I had telephone contact with Knot, twice I say out of my mind: I think on Friday and on Sunday. It is an extremely serious situation where you immediately have a hundred questions but, again, are handicapped by the lack of supervisory information in my ministry and the lack of criminal records. There too, but certainly in the discussion on Wednesday and also in official talks with Mr Knot, Mr Elderson and others, the question was, of course, asked: what about you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-2.u40	Thank you.
