ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-2.u1	Today we begin with a question from Mr Aartsen, on behalf of the VVD, to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment, whom I welcome, about the testing of alcohol and drugs by companies. Mr. Aartsen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Let me, as the first speaker, first of all take the opportunity to congratulate you warmly on your high French award, the Légion d'Honneur.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-2.u3	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-2.u4	Congratulations. Mr. Chairman. Everyone wants to be able to go to work safely. We are afraid that more and more people are going to work under the influence of alcohol or drugs. That is, of course, very undesirable in a normal office job, but it will only become really dangerous if you have a dangerous profession or have to work with dangerous substances. Of course, you don't want people getting drunk on the crane in the port of Rotterdam, or people having to work with life-threatening substances or drive our highways. We must avoid that at all times. Safety at work is a joint responsibility of employers and employees. They must keep each other focused and address each other if dangerous situations are to arise. However, we are currently seeing that the current privacy rules do not allow people to test for drinking and drug use, while suppliers claim that no less than 5% to 8% of employees are tested positively for drinking and drugs. In my view, there are conflicting interests here: on the one hand privacy legislation and on the other hand safety at work. The VVD therefore wants people who work in high-risk professions or end up in dangerous situations to be tested for alcohol and drugs. As far as we are concerned, this does not need to be done every day, but it is good if there is such a possibility, so that we can set up a safe workplace with each other. Mr. Chairman. I am curious to see what the cabinet thinks of this situation, as also stated in the NOS-Journaal. What, according to the Cabinet, is of greater importance in such situations? Is privacy of greater importance, or do we consider safety in the workplace to be of higher importance? And what is needed, according to the Cabinet, to ensure that workers who, for example, have to go in or work with dangerous substances, can work without drugs and alcohol and possibly can also be tested on these kinds of issues? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-2.u5	I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-2.u6	Mr President, thank you very much, and congratulations. I think that Mr Aartsen is right to raise a problem here. He does so in response to reports that have also addressed employers. It's quite a dilemma. If security is your top priority, and that's what it is, then you're also facing dilemmas when it comes to privacy. I think it's a good thing that that's where the bell rings. The situations outlined by Mr Aartsen are, of course, undesirable. We have to prevent it, and we have to get to work on it. I also understand the dilemma outlined. We have in our legislation safeguards for the privacy and physical integrity of employees. But even now, there are sectors in which these safeguards may be waived, if they are properly implemented, for example in the areas of air, rail and water functions. I have heard the employers who have indicated that they would like to have more detailed rules on this matter. By the way, the GDPR does not impose more demands on this than the legislation we had before, but it is a dilemma that is now pregnant on the board. I have also heard very well that the workers' side has indicated that safety is a top priority and that under specific conditions one would also like to see how this can be arranged. This is also what my colleague, the Minister for Legal Protection, has reported to the Chamber. It is a good habit for us to talk to the social partners about how we can organise this in a well-managed way. That is why I shall do so before the summer and inform the Chamber after the summer of how we are going to find a solution on this issue. The Ministry of Justice and Security outlines the legal framework, but I will have the conversation with the social partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-2.u7	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the answer from the Secretary of State. I'm glad to hear she's talking to the sectors. There are a number of things that remain for me. That is, of course, the legal basis. The Dutch Data Protection Authority indicates that control at this time can indeed only be carried out if there is a legal basis, as the State Secretary has already outlined, for example in the case of pilots or skippers. Does the Cabinet consider that this legal basis should also be made possible for all Brzo professions? In my view, this is a dangerous situation, and it is good that it is possible in any case. Is the Secretary of State talking to all these professions or only to a particular section? I am also curious to see how many dangerous situations are currently being identified when it comes to drinking or drugs. Do we see an increase in that? And no less important: if current regulations prevent employers from being able to monitor closely, who is responsible if something goes wrong and someone uses heavy alcohol or drugs? That is a relevant question for me. It is, of course, important for the cabinet to act quickly and get to work before the summer, and to inform us after the summer. At the moment, many people are at risk, not only the people themselves who use alcohol and drugs at the time of such a profession, but also the many colleagues around them. I think it would be a good thing if we were to ensure that people who are sniffed out on a crane or who are sitting in the back of the wheel or who are getting into the oil in a working situation can be pre-checked so that we can avoid dangerous situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-2.u8	Mr. Chairman. There are quite rightly a number of issues that I would like to include in the discussions I am having. Once again, these talks are short-term, because I too think that this is an appropriate point. I also believe that security is a top priority. If you run into legal barriers, you need to see how you can handle it. The category Brzo, companies with a very high risk of major accidents, is certainly a category to be discussed. In fact, we are already talking to the chemicals sector, but I would not like to restrict it in advance, because there are many places where dangerous situations can be encountered. I am not aware of situations that are now being identified, all the more so because there is now no legal basis for maintaining them. As far as I am concerned, that is an extra need to have this conversation. In current regulations, the employer has an important role to play in this. If there is a situation where it is found that someone has done something like this and that measures are taken, then it will ultimately be up to the judge and the judge to decide on it. I can therefore very well imagine that employers are asking for more clarity, as well as employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-2.u9	Mr Aartsen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-2.u10	Thanks again to the Secretary of State for the fact that not only the chemicals sector is involved in any changes to broaden this but that this could also apply to all Brzo professions. We're very happy about that. We hope, of course, that the cabinet will also look at those legal grounds in any evaluations of privacy legislation, so that it will eventually be possible to do so. Once again, safety must be high on the agenda and is certainly extremely important in such a case, because we want everyone to be able to work safely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-2.u11	Thank you, Mr. Aartsen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-2.u12	My colleague, the Minister for Legal Protection, did indeed send a letter to the Chamber on 1 April in which he addressed the consequences of the GDPR in a number of sectors and, on this basis, also included a list of actions to be taken. This is one of those subjects on the agenda. I repeat that security is a top priority and that I will inform the Chamber of the results of that consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-2.u13	Thank you.
