ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-2.u1	This time we start with Mr Markuszower's question on behalf of the PVV to the Minister of Justice and Security about the abuse of hundreds of Dutch children on the darkweb. I would like to welcome the Minister. I call Mr Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Almost all Dutch people who saw or read the RTL-undercover reportage on child abuse yesterday became angry and nauseous. Almost all Dutch, unfortunately not all Dutch, because thousands of paedophiles live in the Netherlands. And many of them abuse children and many of them put the footage of that abuse online, leaving many more dirty pedophiles without fear of being caught by the police, at home on their computer or on their cell phones on the darkweb. The abuse goes on, because online abuse is also abuse. I will not share the details of the RTL-reportage here, because the disgustingness cannot be described with a pen. The victims, often babies, toddlers and toddlers, and their neighbors deserve peace and security. The Netherlands appears to be a paradise for anyone who wants to abuse children, and that is why I think that we here today as a Chamber should talk about the conclusions of the reportage. It is important not only to ask some questions today but to follow the Minister on this subject much more often as a Chamber. Because, Mr. Chairman, the victims must be protected. The victims deserve justice. Future victims must be prevented. Mr. Chairman. Child abuse is so serious that I demand that the Minister today declare the frontal attack on all child abusers in the Netherlands. The Minister must not rest until all child abusers are removed from society. The Minister should not rest until all companies that facilitate child abuse are killed. The Minister must not rest until all footage of victims has been removed from the dark web. In the first period, I would like to ask the following question. The current maximum penalty for spreading child pornography is now two months. Two months! And then you should know that Dutch judges hardly ever impose the maximum penalty. The current penalty for offering child pornography is now up to a year. Why don't we at least make it 20 years? Minimum, because the Dutch judges are übersoft on child pornography and so you have to force those judges to punish hard and high. What does the Minister himself think is a suitable punishment for spreading or offering child pornography? Does the Minister agree with me that the current penalties are far too low and therefore have no deterrent effect at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-2.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-2.u4	Mr. Chairman. It is a good thing that this oral question is being discussed today. RTL News about online sexual child abuse is fierce and confronts us with one of the most devastating forms of crime. When I joined as Minister in October 2017, I was shocked by the increase that had taken place in the previous five years in the field of child pornography and child abuse online. From that moment on, I have written letters to your Chamber with great regularity to say, first of all, that I am going to talk about this with all the parties involved, such as Internet providers and the like and with the police, but also to indicate that I will involve your Chamber in how we can completely suppress this horrible social error. I am going to mention in detail the state of play on the measures that I am undertaking in conjunction with your Chamber. First of all, I immediately called the business community to the table, and I am referring above all to large service providers and telecom providers, and I have agreed on action points with them that are now being carried out. The most important of these is a hash database that allows businesses to clean up their own servers. It is currently in the test phase and should be able to produce a result in the summer. In December, industry committed itself in an agreement with me to removing material within 24 hours of a notification. Before the summer, I will continue to report to your Chamber on the administrative approach I have announced, and I will explain this to the people everywhere. I have developed, in consultation with my officials, an approach, a legislation that will allow companies, service providers on the Internet who do not cooperate directly, to deal firmly with direct, large fines. This can be done without the need for a long-term criminal justice process. Furthermore, this issue calls for a tightening up of the investigation. The detectives of the police team that fights child pornography are doing incredibly important work in that context. That's what 150 detectives are working on right now. In addition, there are five specialised prosecutors. But what I would like to say is that last year I allocated a number of additional resources, such as the possibility of a darkwebcrawler, because we all have to realise that much of this kind of horror takes place via so-called darkwebs on the Internet. Finally, Mr President. I'm almost done. This afternoon I am speaking to the European Union's Justice Commissioner Jouravá, and I have already put on the agenda for this report the approach to online sexual abuse in the European context. The advantage of our good internet logistics is that we have a lot of positive activities in the Netherlands, but unfortunately it also attracts these kinds of negative things. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-2.u5	Thank you. The Minister also has two minutes in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-2.u6	Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-2.u7	I now give the floor to Mr Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-2.u8	It is good to hear that the Minister is concentrating on this subject, but unfortunately the Chamber has to note that since the Minister's appointment and good intentions have begun, child abuse in the Netherlands has not declined, but has increased. The use of dirty, scary dark webs has increased, not decreased. So perhaps, as I said earlier, the Minister can choose the frontal attack and do more, much more. For how can I ask the Minister that RTL is capable of exposing the current perpetrators and detecting images and not the Dutch government, or at least not enough? There are abuse images of at least 1,700 child victims and only 10% of the children are saved annually. Nor have I received an answer to my first-term question as to what the Minister considers appropriate punishment for rape of children, abuse of children and the distribution of material. As far as I'm concerned, these horrible perps stay in prison for life, but in the Netherlands you are often imposed only a few months. What's the Minister gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-2.u9	Two things. First of all, it's a misunderstanding that the government wouldn't get a look at these people. I spent four hours last year with the Team Combat Children's Porn and Child Sex Tourism. They are certainly able to track down these kinds of criminals on the dark web. The problem is that people are still showing up in this kind of crime. I hope that, together with Mr Markuszower and the entire Chamber, I will put it in order to get it out of the way as well. Finally, the measure of punishment. On Thursday, we'll be discussing the bill of re-evaluation of current criminal acts in your Chamber. The approach will be driven by, among other things, the criminalisation of sexual footage abuse. I would really like to encourage Members to discuss this measure of punishment in a plenary debate on Thursday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-2.u10	Next Thursday we will certainly talk about this in the debate and we will certainly support any increase in penalties, but these increases are really not substantial. Again, as far as I'm concerned, people who abuse children go to jail for life or at least 20, 30 or 40 years. The Minister proposes an increase of a few months in his law. Net, these criminals sometimes only spend a few weeks in jail, and that doesn't make any sense. Once again, I think it is great that the Minister is also concerned about this issue, but the penalties that are being given are unfortunately too low. Unfortunately, the Minister is not acting hard enough. I note that RTL seems to know more than the Dutch government. If that is not the case, I ask the Minister to take the people RTL has in the picture and put them in jail today, if necessary, for life. Make sure the Dutch children are safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-2.u11	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-2.u12	This RTL case is well known to the Public Prosecutor's Office; let me start with that. Once again, I would strongly recommend to your standing committee that some Members have already done so to visit that team once an afternoon. That's tough, I must say, I was shocked to get away from it. But the work they do is much heavier. Then you will see that the police and the D.A. are really committed to this. We need to tighten legislation. Before that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-2.u13	Members of parliament do that, too, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-2.u14	It's a horrible matter. My question is whether the technology and the capacity are sufficient to ensure that those figures go down drastically rather than up and down.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-2.u15	We've increased the capacity considerably over the past few years. I've already mentioned 150 detectives, five officers. After receiving advice, I say that we must now concentrate on improving resources, on legislation, because it seems that only increasing capacity is not enough to tackle this problem. But this is really a problem that we need to take full advantage of; that is why I have also called on the EU. If it turns out that there will be a need for an increase in capacity, then I shall certainly come back to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-2.u16	Good thing the minister says that all sails are being added to stop this hell. I still have one more question. A pedo manual is still circulating, with all kinds of instructions and instructions for how to abuse a child without anyone finding out. We've asked questions about that before. It is still a little unclear what is now the status of criminalising the possession or knowledge of this manual.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-2.u17	Mrs Van Toorenburg refers to the pedo manual. There has indeed been some kind of book published on the Internet at some point, also on the dark web, which, according to the criminal lawyers of my department, has been shaving to a large extent along the edges of what is permitted by law. If and as soon as such publications cross the border on the dark web, the Public Prosecutor's Office shall immediately intervene, including on the possession and use of such publications. That's what I wrote to your room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-2.u18	The Minister just said he was going to see for himself whether the capacity was sufficient. I'd like to know when he'll get back to the Chamber. The second point is the following. In the article, a mother says: it is horrible that the images of my abused son have been circulating on the Internet for years now and that we cannot get them off. My question to the Minister is: how is this possible? I know that the Minister is working on laws, but also with the current legislation, it cannot be the case that images continue to circulate unpunished. What are we going to do for, for example, these mothers and people in similar situations to ensure that images are and remain removed from the Internet immediately?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-2.u19	The hashtag I just mentioned, which has been deployed, makes it possible for companies to remove this type of material recognizably immediately. Other than that, there's that web crawler from the police. You must imagine that all those thousands of photos have an algorithmic code. The web crawler can recognize them and throw them off the Internet immediately. The problem is, therefore, that I am referring specifically to the fact that occasionally there are parties on the darkweb who make this a model of earning. They don't, like decent parties do to me in a conference room, agree to take it off the web within a few hours. We have to keep chasing after these kinds of parties every time, because the terrible sad thing is that I immediately admit that in many cases you have to observe that a picture of a child shows up again, when we thought that we had all taken it from the police via the web crawler.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-2.u20	Thank you.
