ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u1	I give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg, on behalf of the CDA, for her question to the Minister for Medical Care, whom I would like to welcome, on the closure of the intensive care, obstetrics and pediatrics departments at the hospital in Winterswijk. I call Mrs van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I was really surprised that we had to read in the newspaper again that a hospital is planning to close all kinds of things without having been discussed with those involved. Nobody knows anything about anything. Then I also hear that in 2017, when these hospitals were merged, the municipalities were told that both hospitals would remain valid. In addition, the city council asked questions early this year on the basis of the rumor that the Regional Hospital Queen Beatrix would close and then Santiz's management denied it. Mr. Chairman. I'm just really, really upset about this. I have three questions for the Minister first. Does the Minister agree with the CDA that the departure of obstetrics does not leave a full hospital in Winterswijk and that this is the beginning of the end? Is the Minister prepared to talk to the people of the region before Christmas, for example with the Friends of the Regional Hospital Queen Beatrix who also put a lot of energy, time and even money into it? Does the Minister agree with us that it cannot be said that people who have other ideas can deliver them, but before February 2020? We don't think that's a time frame. I would like an initial response from the Minister to these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u3	I can see a couple of MPs standing by the interrupting microphone. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Van den Berg expressed her surprise. I can hear what she's saying. Mrs Van den Berg and I are both in favour of a development in which when something happens in the health care landscape, in this case in the hospital care landscape, it is discussed with the environment: with the general practitioners, the ambulance services and, for example, with the public administration. I understand that the reports in last week's newspaper followed a meeting which the hospital had organised with its staff about a development that will take place in a number of years' time. What I like about that is that the hospital board is thinking about the layout of the future of care, in this case hospital care in the Achterhoek. I am very much in favour of involving the environment in this. I believe that precisely this development is aimed at not being the beginning of the end, but at ensuring that in the next ten years too, there will be Santiz's focus on two locations in the Achterhoek, in Doetinchem and in Winterswijk. Mrs Van den Berg's last question was about the timetable. The press release I have read on this subject states that they want to take a decision as early as February. I say "al" because I think that's a bit of a trot. I had just this morning a discussion with the Haaglanden Medisch Centrum, which allocated about three quarters of a year to a wide-ranging discussion with the environment. So I was thinking about having the conversation with the hospital, as Mrs Van den Berg asked, and emphasising that we really need to take the time to talk to the surroundings about the trend.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u5	The minister says that the intention is to keep a hospital in two locations, but that's different from a full hospital. I didn't answer the Minister's question. Does he agree with us that when obstetrics disappears, there is no longer a full hospital? Furthermore, the Minister says that he is going to talk to the hospital, but I just asked if he would like to talk to the regional directors and, for example, the Friends SKB Winterswijk. Those are the residents, so not the hospital itself. I am glad that he at least thinks that the timetable is not as good, but I also see that there is a lack of solid support on all sides. Has a regional image been created, for example, as we have agreed? Has anyone mapped out how many stops there are at the hospitals? Has the need for care been mapped out? I would also like to hear an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u6	As everywhere in the country, there is also work on the regional image in the Achterhoek. If I'm right, it's not finished yet. But we have also had this discussion on other regions. Developments in care are not, of course, awaiting the creation of regional images, but I intended to have the conversation with the hospital director and to advocate that she take a little more time than until February, which she mentioned. There are other examples, such as here in The Hague, where more time is needed. Perhaps these two, the planning of the vision and the planning of the regional picture, will be better matched. Mr. Chairman. Then it's a question of whether it's a full-fledged hospital. I think that in the Achterhoek people are doing very well to think about the organization of care. That's wider than just hospital care. If one comes to the conclusion that acute obstetrics should not be offered in two places, but in one place, that is still a question, that is not an answer. It would be good to assess that from both accessibility and affordability and quality of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u7	Then I conclude that not only in 2017 but even now, this year, it has been said: no, that is a rumor; it is nonsense that that hospital would close down. I would like a response from the Minister to that. Then the Minister says that developments do not wait for regional images. But does he agree with the CDA that you can't make decisions when you don't even have good data? And I still can't hear the minister say he's also talking to the city council and the residents.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u8	On Mrs van den Berg's first question, my answer is that it is not the case that the hospital closes. It is precisely the desire to continue to offer care in two locations, in this case Doetinchem and Winterswijk. About the rumors: I don't know those rumors. Should this be decided on the basis of good data? Oh, yeah. When I talk to the hospital director, I will insist that this analysis is not kept to itself but also shared with the environment. Then I come to the question of who you're talking to. I think it is a good thing that the hospital is talking to the surroundings and to other care parties, as we have mentioned in the concept of the AMvB, which also knows Mrs Van den Berg well, and that I am talking to the hospital director. I think that's the right route.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u9	Finally, Mrs van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u10	Of course, we have recently experienced the GP in Oldenzaal, where there had been no consultation at all. It was already at a stage when nothing could actually happen about it. So I think it is very important for the Minister to hear the concerns of the people now, he does not even have to react yet, and also how the process has gone so far. After all the closures and what we have heard in recent years, it is time for the Minister to speak personally to the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u11	Mrs van den Berg is, of course, quite right about the unrest. I think everyone loves having a hospital nearby. People always have concerns about developments in this part of the care landscape. This is what happened to me this morning, when we were talking about the Hague countries Medical Centre. I would like to say a few words about the importance of the consultation. In the last ten or fifteen debates on hospital care, we have shared on several occasions that it is very important for the environment to be involved in such a development, and not just the client council and the audit committee. You should also look in the area, not only at the care professional parties, but also at residents, so that they can also think along about the solutions for future-proof care in, in this case, the Achterhoek.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u12	Thank you. Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u13	I am surprised that Mrs van den Berg is always so excited about the closure of departments and at the same time fully supports the Minister's policy. It's either one or the other. That is why I would like to ask the Minister the following. We know that the number of seventy-five plusers doubles. We know their care question doubles. Is the Minister prepared to stop this austerity, the 0% volume growth reduction in 2022, to ensure that there will also remain full hospitals between Doetinchem and Winterswijk, which will have to cope with the huge influx of older people in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u14	Mrs Agema points to agreements made in a broad agreement, along with all the concerns. Besides, everyone is still good for their signature. That's what I'd like to keep to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u15	A second supplementary question, Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u16	These basic agreements mean that hospitals fall down. They're gonna make sure people in Winterswijk don't have a full hospital anymore. Everywhere in the Netherlands we see that happening. The Minister must let go of these volume growth restrictions to ensure that we will soon have a well-covering network of fully-fledged hospitals in our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u17	I very much agree. It is also always the commitment of my policy to ensure that there is both future-proof care and future-proof acute care available to everyone in the Netherlands. I share with Mrs Agema that it squeaks and cracks here and there. This has been the reason for putting my multiannual vision on paper for the subject of acute concern, in a sketch which I would like to present to the Chamber in the first quarter of next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u18	Mr Veldman, on behalf of the VVD. Or was Mr. Hijink before?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u19	It's no big deal, as far as I'm concerned. I can well imagine that residents, municipalities and also general practitioners in the Achterhoek have been shocked by the reports of the past week, precisely because it is a region where the care on parts is already under some pressure. Especially in the eastern part of the Achterhoek the driving times of ambulances are often not reached. So that's worrying. Can the Minister, apart from last week's announcement, which I understand is somewhat nuanced, guarantee that, especially where acute care is concerned, the duty of care is simply there and care is provided and people do not have to worry about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u20	Certainly, that is the conversation between hospital and health insurance company, which is supervised by both the inspection and the Dutch Healthcare Authority. Everyone should be able to count on good care, and so should the people in the Achterhoek.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u21	It always hurts when a hospital is in danger of being dismantled. It hurts twice as much to me when it happens on your own birthplace. I know that region very well. If you want to get from Winterswijk to the hospital in Doetinchem, you're just on your way for 45 minutes. 45 minutes! And when you're behind a trigger, it takes an hour; and that's very real when you live there. I just want this minister to say that he is going to ensure that both in Doetinchem and in Winterswijk a full hospital, including acute obstetrics and including emergency services, is maintained, because it is part of a liveable countryside and is part of the need for people to organise care close to home.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u22	As Mr Hijink knows, the emergency services are not under discussion here. The hospital director Santiz, with both locations, wants to keep the ER open there. It is now being examined whether acute obstetrics and clinical pediatrics can be organised in one location for the sake of quality, accessibility and affordability. That's what the investigation is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u23	Second supplementary question, Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u24	Quality is also about proximity, that you can get there on time and that if you are in the hospital, family members and other visitors can get there on time. The predecessor of this minister, Minister Schippers, said at the time of the announced merger: if care is in danger, then I will not hesitate to ensure that care is guaranteed in both places with the law in hand. I want this Minister's promise that he too will deliver on that promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u25	I believe that care for everyone, everywhere in the Netherlands, should be of good quality and that accessibility should be well arranged for everyone. At the same time, this is a constant conversation, because there are developments everywhere in the country. Sometimes these relate to the main lines of agreement, which Mrs Agema is referring to, sometimes they relate to technological developments, sometimes they relate to the labour market. At the moment, all three are coming together, so as regards agreements on the maintenance of acute obstetrics and clinical medicine at both locations: I can ask the hospital, but that is precisely the point they want to investigate. I think they should take the time for that investigation, to be able to consult with a lot of parties, but you can't give that guarantee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u26	Okay, Mrs Ploumen, then Mrs Sazias and then Mrs Ellemeet. Or have I again...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u27	I thought Mrs. Sazias was first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u28	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. I hear the Minister say this is not the beginning of the end. It is now about acute obstetrics and pediatrics; intensive care is also in danger of being closed down. Well, if that happens, then the cardiology department will follow and maybe the emergency services will. Last year the GGNet/Psychiatry department was closed down. Now the regional picture is not ready, but in the meantime the general practitioners in the area feel that the care in that area is being completely broken down. I share their concern and would very much like to be assured by the Minister that the level of provision in that area is maintained.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u29	I agree with Mrs Sazias that care should be of good quality, including in the Achterhoek. I believe that such a development, which we are discussing this afternoon, should take time. By "ones," I mean that the lead for that lies with the hospital director. I will talk to them about this again, because I believe that the Achterhoek deserves that too. By the way, the hospital has informed me that intensive care is not being closed there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u30	I find it rather bewildering that we are once again standing here asking the Minister to interfere with something that is part of his core task, namely the duty of care of the government. Now essential care facilities are being put in place in this region again, because that is what we think is being removed, despite previous promises. And again, it's a department of obstetrics. It is becoming unusual for women to give birth at home or near their homes in too many regions. The Minister is defending quality with the argument, but I understand that one of the main reasons for moving the department is that it is necessary to finance the new building in Doetinchem. So that is not a quality reason at all. There are just financial reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u31	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u32	That's right, I'll ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u33	I'll take that question with me in the conversation with the hospital director.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u34	So?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u35	I cannot judge whether there is a financial reason behind this, as Mrs Ploumen has said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u36	Will the Chamber be informed about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u37	I told you, I'm gonna talk to the hospital board. I will be happy to share the results with your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u38	Okay. Mrs Ploumen, second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u39	I have a brief follow-up question. The minister's gonna have a conversation. We think that is a great deal as we stand here, but it is actually too little and too late. How is it possible that the Minister is going after the facts again and that people simply do not keep recent promises to residents? That's very sad in such a rich country as we are. Doesn't the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u40	I am not aware of any promises made to citizens. The Ministry had contact with the hospital last Friday. That led me to write a letter to your Chamber about these developments, because I always have concerns about the layout of the care landscape. I know that hospitals in particular are an issue for the Chamber and for me, so I wrote a letter to your Chamber on that. I'll supplement it with the conversation I'll have with the hospital director.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u41	The people who live in Winterswijk and the surrounding area are struck by a decision in which the business interests are so clearly at the forefront and not the interests of these residents and the quality of care. I want to hear very clearly from the Minister whether he is going to go to that region to talk to the people there and to the hospital and to make sure that the quality of care and the importance of these residents are paramount. I would also like to hear that all decisions are initially judged against what these people need and what they want and that we are not turning our backs on putting the business interests of this hospital first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u42	I have to protect the hospital director here anyway. I believe that it is her desire to start the conversation early for a development that lasts for about five years. They want to do this very carefully and very precisely. It is regrettable that the hospital director also said that people feel mugged. By which I mean people outside the hospital, residents. I'm really sorry about that. I can also see that the hospital director cares about that. In the conversation I will have with the hospital director, I will also make sure that the issue of the involvement of the surrounding area is addressed with emphasis on the residents.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u43	When I listen to the Minister, I think: do I have a debate here with the Minister for Medical Care or with the spokesperson of the hospital director? The regional images are now being prepared. The minister just admitted that there isn't for the Achterhoek yet. The question is: who is the boss of care in the Netherlands when a hospital administration already comes up with rigorous plans for a region, while the regional images are not yet finished? Who's in charge of care? Is that the Minister of Medical Care or is it the hospital director?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u44	That's a good question. It would be great to say I'm the boss. I don't feel that way, but I do feel system responsible. That means I like to talk to all the places in the Netherlands where it wrings. Sometimes things go well, too. Then I like to be informed, but I like to be informed when people are worried about developments in their backyard. Let me put it this way. I can imagine that very well. I think I should be the one to talk to. I try to channel that every now and then, in this case through the hospital director.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u45	My view of the task of a minister for medical care is something more than just to engage in the conversation and to give more than just an opinion on the quality of care, which is actually playing that exciting role. When I hear from this minister that he only last Friday discussed the situation with the hospital director, I think to myself: what kind of system responsible do we have in this country for care, which faces essential challenges in terms of quality, accessibility and affordability? So what does that system responsible mean? Does the Minister actually feel responsible for what is happening with care in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u46	Day and night. I'm on it day and night, too. I also think it is not the case that the Minister should only have an opinion. We try to agree on future-proof arrangements for care, both with policy and regulation and with finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u47	Thank you.
