ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u1	The next item is the second term of the joint handling of the bill 33996, the Amendment of the Gaming Act, the Gaming Tax Act and some other laws related to the organisation of remote gambling, and the Bill 3471, the Amendment of the Gaming Act related to the modernisation of the game casino regime. I would like to welcome the Minister for Legal Protection to the First Chamber. The Secretary of State for Finance has indicated in advance that he will not be present. He's gone to the Ecofin Council. But the Minister for Legal Protection has said that he will do this job all by himself today. We'll start with the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u2	I call Mr Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u3	Mr President, thank you. Thank you also to the Minister for replying in the first term. And also thanks to the Secretary of State, "by default," I'll say. Thanks also for the letter last Friday, which says that we still have a little bit of legal power when it comes to allowing new licence holders on the Dutch market. We have reliability requirements, because we can make demands through priority criteria. Perhaps the Minister could explain how that works in my Maltezer example, where working conditions are abominable. Mr. Chairman. We are also satisfied with the commitment to monitor advertising on an annual basis. We do have a question about that. It says that there is a time lock especially for television. Why only for television? For example, I do not think that young people are watching television anymore, so perhaps it would be useful to broaden it a little. One more question about the totodatabase. How can we prevent legal licence holders from throwing away their entire stock, while illegal licence holders who enter the Dutch market may not have to do so? Can we harmonise or create a level playing field? All in all, the PVV Group considers this Remote Gambling Act a step forward in terms of tax revenues, in terms of fair gambling, in terms of addiction prevention. This is the subject of the Law on Modernisation of Play Casinos. That law might have been better called "Privatization Holland Casino," or maybe that's what he should have been called. Then everyone would have understood what it's about. The question that the PVV Group, but actually everyone here, has to answer, is: will the Netherlands be better off under the line? To be honest, we in my group still have our doubts, in terms of tax revenues, in terms of fair gambling, in terms of prevention of addiction, in terms of working conditions, in terms of combating money laundering, in terms of combating fraud, and also in terms of employment. Because sooner or later the head office is in Nicosia instead of in the Netherlands. In short, the PVV continues to be critical of that bill. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u4	Thank you, Mr. Dercksen. I give the floor to Mrs Andriessen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the letter and for answering the many questions last week. Our group was particularly pleased with the commitment to provide annual information on the effects of legalising online gambling on charity lotteries and on charity payments. We are still concerned about the future, so it is good that we can be informed about this every year. About Holland Casino in combination with online gambling we do have a question. The Minister mentioned a kind of cooling-off period, transitional period. It would be nice if he could explain this in the second term, especially in view of the possibilities for Holland Casino to bet on online gambling in time. Can they set up an online database during the time you keep the naughty providers at a distance so that they can participate in the online market as a legal provider? There we found some confusion. That is a subject on which we would like to have some clarification. In that respect, these are the two questions for us at the moment. We hope for a satisfactory response, and I would like to say on behalf of my group that we attach great importance to the protection of online players in the future. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u6	Thank you, Mrs Andriessen. I give the floor to Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Minister for his open answer in the first term. And also to the Secretary of State for his enthusiastic and incredibly rapid response in the first term. I'm sure the Minister will be happy to pass that on. I would also like to thank the rulers for supplementing that reply in the letter we received on Friday. To be honest, however, my group is not yet satisfied. The bill on online gambling has a great paradox in it. The licensed online offer must be attractive, but not yet so that it will have an astounding effect. The Minister emphasizes that he does not expect any pushing effect. Unfortunately, I have not yet seen any research in another country where the number of online gamblers remained the same after opening up the market, and unfortunately this sad trend applies all the more to the number of addictions. Whether it was in Spain or in Germany, Belgium or Denmark, the figures are none of them encouraging. And that is an uncomfortable truth. The Minister states that he expects this new law to close the enforcement deficit of the Gaming Authority. But while in Denmark the success factor for channeling was that sites of illegal providers were blocked, this is impossible here. The Minister's letter is almost a little light-hearted about it, because payment traffic can be blocked. But the offerer will continue to offer his goods. This is not effective enforcement, which is always after the consequences of illegal offering. Just what the minister and the government want to avoid with this law somewhere. From the practice all the warnings came for a neat site with the. nl extension and an illegal site with one. Com, with higher untaxed prices. Does the Minister withdraw the licence if providers want to remain accessible to Dutch gamblers outside the Dutch regulated offer? What basis does he have in the law? Can he answer that very accurately and very precisely? What confidence does the Minister have that the ultimatum remedium of criminal law will actually represent something? Can he perhaps indicate that Article 54a already exists now, and how often it has been used, precisely on this issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u8	Mrs Bikker comes up with a very important point, namely that as suppliers offer at one. nl-site, we would like to see it intervened if it is illegal. But what now when that on one. com-site state? Can Mrs Bikker be even more explicit about how we now know, in her view, that it is actually a Dutch offer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u9	That has not yet become clear from the whole answer. We now know that suppliers can ask for a permit and that they can make a Dutch offer. But how exactly that is done depends on how the Gaming Authority will grant the licence. That's exactly what I'm asking for. What I've understood from the experts I don't come to these kind of sites every day is that one of the concerns is that the licensed Dutch offer will have to pay just tax, which makes sense if you take this step. At the same time, however, it remains very tempting for providers to continue to work outside the tax system through the international dimension. There's one of my concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u10	We share that concern. That is why I am asking that question. I try to go a bit deeper: can we then make a distinction between the almost seamless crossing of the nl-offer in one. com-offer while you know it's aimed at the same target group and the like? Or is it an offer made in English from Mr. Dercksen's favourite holiday destination to the whole world?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u11	I don't know where he's hiding, whether it's on Schiermonnikoog or somewhere else. But I think it's very important that we make this clear.That's why I would have liked it very much if that website was just blocked. nl extension is well regulated and meets the conditions. That was demolished by the House of Representatives. Mr. Postema made that very clear in his speech. I actually see in the answers given by the Minister today that he is trying to fix everything at the back by going after the payment traffic, but that the closing of that website on the front is not possible. For me, that is a very important one, precisely because you saw in Denmark that it was the essence of channeling. That is why I hardly understand why parties think they can channel this without this enforcement deficit in the law. Anyway, we are going to see how all the spokesmen feel about this in the course of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u12	I don't want to make it any more complicated than it already is, and it's kind of complicated already. Just one. nl extension doesn't say anything about the location of a company. Everyone in the world, whether you're based in Malta or in the Philippines, can do one. nl-domain name and any company, including a Dutch company, can also get a.-com-site. I would ask you not to focus on the extension, but on the location of the company. I think that is more important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u13	I would like to thank Mrs Gerkens for this excellent addition. Because you immediately see that, where a simple lawyer thinks he's getting a hold of the online domain, this was absolutely just a little bit. But I was interested in the fact that illegal providers are re-entering the Dutch offer in a different way and that Dutch players want to enter the licensed domain, or do not want to do so at all and then enter the unauthorized domain. In this law, the enforcement side was removed from the front by the House of Representatives with a view to a pure internet, but not with a view to gamblers and problem gamblers. So I'd like to hear the Minister about that, and also more specific than in the letter so far. Because in terms of enforcement, that's where our concerns lie. Then there is a second threshold which we think is too small. It sees on the banning and regulating of advertising. Specifically for television, Mr Dercksen said it was a time lock to seven o'clock in the evening in relation to young people. That is a special time lock, because only the Sesame Street viewers are on bed. But the kids who just started playing with their cell phones are still watching cheerful TV. How does the Minister see that? It seems to me that it is very complicated to use this on other channels. Take YouTube, take Netflix, take everything our youth loves to watch. There's a specific time lock for television in the law. Then how can the Minister reach even more specific, tighter agreements for other media channels than what kind of television is in the law? Is that even possible? Are you sure you can set those limits? Even if I really want to, and I will support him in that. But I do have my concerns about that. I therefore miss in the letter a bit the streetwise, sober approach that I see mostly in the Minister's mind with regard to the media use of young people and also with regard to sports clubs. Because it is said that individual athletes are not allowed to advertise, but take those football clubs or those cycling clubs or whatever: they appeal to the imagination. What is the Minister doing at the time? I am really pleased with his commitment to keeping players away from online casinos for up to 24 years, but there are still a lot of doors open. I asked the Minister for a strict execution of the Builder motion, so bad behavior by illegal providers doesn't pay off. I now read that the behavior is taken into account in the assessment of reliability. But what is "reliable"? What "behavior"? When I read the letter, I'm still not sure which companies the minister thinks he's banning on the basis of the past few years. Is that anyone who's received an official warning from the Gaming Authority? Is that any company that knew very well that online gambling is prohibited in the Netherlands and still offered services to Dutch people? And why a two-year cooling-off period? Where do I find this cooling-off period in the regulations? So how are these two years being argued? I would like more clarity and preferably more ambition in the answer. I have expressed my deep concerns in the first term about the choice to allow even more gambling. Where the government is focusing on a smoke-free generation, here is the big pitfall that we make young people more familiar with gambling. Online gambling can be anywhere, is anonymous and difficult to track for the environment. At the same time, I believe that the law has great vulnerabilities in this respect. I shall therefore table the next motion. The President shall: Mr Bikker, Mr Gerkens, Mr Diederik van Dijk, Mr Van Bijsterveld, Mr Strik and Mr Koffeman proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that young people up to 24 years of age are more vulnerable to the seductive effects of gambling and gambling elements in games and that this issue is addressed in this legislative proposal;]] [[Whereas there is a risk that regulation of remote gambling will lead to a draining effect of young people on online gambling;]] [[calls on the Government to assess, when evaluating this law, whether it has taken sufficient measures to prevent young people from starting gambling and whether additional measures are needed to prevent young people from becoming problem gamblers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33996-K]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My final point concerns horizontal consistency. The Council of State is simply saying that allowing more providers in one segment of the gambling market has consequences for the other segment. If we in the Chamber adopt the proposal on online gambling without a brake on the number of providers, it will therefore have European law implications for the other segments of gambling policy. Can the Minister say anything about what it will mean for Holland Casino? What does it mean if you privatise it now with a limited number of providers, or if you take other steps in the future? We've heard a critical chamber. Thinking doesn't stand still. How consistent is the Dutch gambling policy? And what does this step of an unlimited number of providers mean for the other segments in the gambling policy? Mr President, so far. You have heard my serious, great preserves, but I am, of course, looking forward to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u15	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I give the floor to Mr Postema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u16	Mr. Chairman. In the second term, my group would like to draw attention to a number of remaining issues. Firstly, I indicated in the first period that it would be useful to distinguish between advertising and information to the public. There is quite a lot to be said about advertising. Thanks also for the first-term reply and for the letter we have received. With regard to public information, we still have a request, which is better than is the case today, to clarify what the legal parties in the Netherlands are, so that the people who are looking for a game of chance online, better than they are now, know that there is a distinction to be made and who are the holder and who are not. It would be beneficial for the market to be transparent about this. Secondly, in the letter we were given a more detailed explanation of the legal basis for refusing to grant a licence to the parties. This concerns the further interpretation of the Bouwmeester motion. For many groups, and certainly for mine, that is a very important point. How do we know that the Minister, and later the Ksa too, can rightly say to candidates for a licence: no, you are not being considered now or not, because you have not shown enough in the past to take Dutch laws and regulations seriously? The Minister would help us by saying a little more about this than just saying: it will work. The letter also talks about a cooling-off period. As far as my group is concerned, it is still important to link a minimum time limit there. Nor should it be unclear which target groups we are talking about. In that context, I would like to table the next motion. The President shall: The following motion was tabled by Mr Postema, Mr Verheijen, Mr Nooren, Mr Fiers and Mr Sini: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas:]] [[the proposal to organise remote gambling (33996) provides for the possibility of granting licences in order to achieve a controlled legal offer of remote gambling;]] [[that licence holders should serve the purposes of gambling policy, including the purpose of preventing crime;]] [[that the motion-Bouwmeester c.s. adopted by the Lower House. (32264 No 19. calls on the Government to ensure that illegal gambling providers are not eligible for authorisation to offer online gambling;]] [[that it is appropriate to specify the exclusion of illegal operators for a licence;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that authorisation for the provision of distance gambling is granted only to parties who have not been engaged, active and specific in the Dutch market for a continuous period of at least two years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33996-L]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u17	Mr. Chairman. We also discussed in detail in the first term...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u18	Mrs. Bikker wanted to respond immediately, Mr. Postema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u19	To be clear about exactly which providers the motion is about. I have the impression that the Labour Party is trying to define a little more about who it is now. In the operative part, it is about providers who have not been unfamiliar, active in recent times. Does this mean that all companies in which Dutch people have gambled online over the last two years will be in the Minister's freezer? Do you have all these in mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u20	It is about the supply side, and these are the parties that, despite our laws and regulations being different, have been active in that market.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u21	Does the Labour Party have the idea that this is legally enforceable? Or should there have been a sanction from the Gaming Authority?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u22	In any event, I have noted that in the explanatory memorandum and in response to the questions raised by my group, among others, reference is made to the parties who have actually been sanctioned by the Ksa. You will have inferred from the motion that I am going to go wider than that, because I do not rule out the fact that there are parties who have indeed offered illegally, but which have not been sanctioned as such, also because it has missed enforcement at times. As soon as that is evident, I believe that they should also be included in the target group which should abstain from such an illegal offer for at least two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u23	Finally, Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u24	We share that broad approach. I would also like to thank Mr Postema for that. I'd like to, but my concern is that that's not sufficiently solid in the law. I do not yet hear Mr Postema comment on that in his reply. Is what we want, the Bouwmeester motion and the further specification that you give to it, feasible? That's exactly what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u25	I think that's a fair question. Mrs Bikker is right to be concerned about that. She's not alone in that either. In practice, it will have to be demonstrated how this test is maintained in terms of suitability and reliability, I say in all honesty. From my group's point of view, I can only stress once again how important it is for us to prevent these parties. Having heard the Minister, he is confident that this will be enforceable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u26	In general, I can follow that perfectly. But suppose we have a foreign provider who didn't focus on the Netherlands, but had his activities abroad and operated legally, which may have been used from the Netherlands. What category is it in your motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u27	I have done so in the preparation of this bill for the past two years, because it has taken so long to discuss it more often. For example, you can simply request an account abroad and still view such sites. Somewhere it'll stop. That's right. But when it comes to parties that actively and demonstrably focus on the Dutch market, it may be about the use of the Dutch language; we were just talking about the domain name itself and also the clog bingo-like promotions are mentioned, so it is obvious that these providers want to enter the Dutch market. These matters should at least be dealt with as far as we are concerned. It seems to us to be expected that there will be a shadow area somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u28	About the motion. My group understands the considerations and is very much in agreement with them. I do have a question about the request to the government. Perhaps Mr Postema could explain that again. The government isn't going to issue permits, is it? How does Mr Postema propose that the government should ensure that something happens to the granting of licences? The Gaming Authority is an independent institution, isn't it? I'd like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u29	That's a fair point. As far as we are concerned, you should also read the term "enhanced." The Gaming Authority is independent, but it is established by the Dutch government. This line should ensure that the Gaming Authority will maintain it in this way. Finally. We also discussed the Internet blockades in the first term. That is an annoying and difficult point because we consider the administrative instruments useful for the Ksa when it comes to online gambling. That has been taken out of amendment for the time being. Now the Minister also says that in practice Article 54a of the Code of Criminal Law, the so-called notice-and-take-down procedure, is also being used. We would like to know from the Minister whether he considers this to be a real instrument for removing illegal online Internet websites and whether he is prepared to include these experiences in the review of the law that we are discussing today. To this end, my group has tabled the following motion for a resolution: The President shall: Mr Postema, Mr Nooren, Mr Sini, Mr Vlietstra, Mr Fiers and Mr Verheijen proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas:]] [[the proposal to organise remote gambling (33996) provides for the possibility of granting licences in order to achieve a controlled legal offer of remote gambling;]] [[the importance of providing the Gaming Authority with adequate tools for enforcing illegal, unauthorized gambling providers;]] [[that the original bill provided for the power of the Gaming Authority to block Internet sites of illegal online gambling providers;]] [[That is why we are voting in favour of this report. 29. the Gaming Authority has been deprived of the power to block illegal websites offering games of chance;]] [[that, according to the applicants, the justification of the said amendment would include the fact that the public authorities should not interfere in any way with the technical functioning of the Internet;]] [[that the blocking of illegal Internet sites does not necessarily concern the technical functioning of the Internet;]] [[that in its response to the AIV opinion "The Internet, a global free space with limited state power" (December 2014) and the WRR opinion "The public core of the Internet. Towards a foreign internet policy" (March 2015) opts for a cautious attitude towards limiting or influencing the content of what is moving across the Internet;]] [[that there have been several cases in recent years in which the public authorities have been blocking or blocking illegal Internet sites;]] [[that the government uses, inter alia, the notice-and-take-down procedure pursuant to Article 54a of the Code of Criminal Law;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[inform the Chamber of the criteria used by the Government in blocking Internet sites;]] [[use the notice-and-take-down procedure pursuant to Article 54a of the Code of Criminal Law in the event that administrative measures to prevent illegal online gambling do not lead to the effective and immediate disappearance of this offer;]] [[to review, within three years of the entry into force of the Act, the desirability of additional administrative instruments for blocking illegal Internet sites,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33996-M]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u30	Mr. Chairman. I would ask Mr Postema to look at his iPad in the first place. There's a very nice VPN module. It stands for security and then we can use a secure connection to the Internet if we use another Wi-Fi address. You can choose a country or city. In this case, it's Warsaw. When you click on that, you do not go from the Netherlands to a website, but from Warsaw. That way you can easily bypass the blockade. That is why the government often does not choose to block access to those sites, but to address the problem at the source, namely where the site is hosted. In the Netherlands, sites have never been blocked. The government's never done that before. I would therefore ask Mr Postema to look again at the content of his motion, because I think that he really misses the point here and indeed gets on the technical side of the Internet. In my view, that is a dangerous development.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u31	I am listening to the question to look again at the content of the motion, but we have already looked at it quite carefully. I do not see any added value in that. However, if Mrs Gerkens has something concrete to improve this problem, I am, of course, open to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u32	That is almost at the heart of the debate. We know that the online gambling market is going to be so difficult to distinguish between what is legal and what is not legal for the people who are allowed to gamble. The opening-up of that market increases the uncertainty. Then there's a better chance that people will gamble on the wrong platforms. If you want to do something and you want to remove those sites, you have to do it at the core. However, the notice-and-take-down procedure is a voluntary procedure and not based on Article 54a of the Treaty, which I do not blame Mr Postema, because that was even unclear in the answer given by the Minister, but if those sites are abroad, then there will be a problem. Then it's very difficult to remove it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u33	I note that we agree that the notice-and-take-down procedure is an important tool to prevent this kind of offer that we do not want to make. Fortunately, we agree on that. I also refer to a study by the Centre for Cybercrime Studies of Tilburg University, which looked precisely at the relationship of this procedure to Article 54a of the Code of Criminal Law. The question was whether there was sufficient legal basis for this. The answer, as is often the case with these kinds of studies, is ambiguous, but certainly not without hope. Hence my appeal to the Minister, now that we have been deprived of the instrument of administrative enforcement, to look in particular at the notice-and-take-down procedure, where every time there are websites popping up games of chance that we do not want to see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u34	I conclude that Mr Postema says that he would like to make use of the existing instruments. I hope he does not propose a new instrument for this, namely blocking sites via the access provider. That would be a pointless way, given that it doesn't block anything if you choose a different connection with the VPN.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u35	I didn't hear a question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u36	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Diederik van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the rulers for their reply. In my group's view, the present legislative proposals and the response made by Minister Dekker in particular are highly characterised by assumptions and expectations. Expectation of legal offer to clear out the illegal offer. Expectation that attractive legal offer does not lead to significant growth in the number of gamblers. The expectation that we can adequately exclude crooked providers. Expectation that increasing legal offer does not lower threshold for illegal gambling. And the expectation that commercial advertising for gambling will not lead to too eager participation in gambling. With so many expectations and risks, I believe that accepting these legislative proposals is a form of Russian roulette. And then hope there's no bullet in the first room... It's strong, isn't it? Sorry, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u38	I let him go down for a second, but it's a really good one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u39	Excuse me. I look forward to the answers to the critical questions put by the previous speakers, on the banning of gaming cowboys, the legal basis for the Builder motion and the banning of illegal sites. But I would add, for the sake of fairness, that in the end the response will not change the negative attitude of the SGP towards these proposals. The Minister, as we listened to last week, sees gambling in itself as a responsible form of pastime, if within all kinds of conditions. The SGP sees gambling as a harmful activity, which destroys more than we love. The government should not channel gambling, but counter assertive. Finally, advertising gambling by definition leads to increased participation in gambling activities. Logical, of course, because otherwise there is no commercial party that puts money into advertising. However, we do not want recruitment, we want gambling prevention. That's why I'd like the next motion. The President shall: Mr Diederik van Dijk, Mr Gerkens, Mr Bikker, Mr Koffeman and Mr Schalk proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that smoking advertising is virtually prohibited and that (soft) drugs are completely prohibited;]] [[Whereas the Cabinet does provide the necessary scope for advertising gambling, although an objective of the current gaming policy is to combat gaming;]] [[whereas it is not established that advertising is necessary to guide players from the illegal offer to the legal offer;]] [[Invites the Cabinet to consider a ban on advertising (online) gambling, to identify its consequences and to inform the Chambers of this matter before 1 September 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33996-N]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u40	Mr. Chairman. Making laws takes quite a while. It is not a pure writing down of a rule, but a resultant of a long reflection on how to organize society better. Former colleague Willem Witteveen argued in his book The Ancient Thought to see the law as a work of art and to restore it. When a law is a work of art, the whole legislative process is important to bring the result to a successful conclusion. This includes a debate in which all participants feel taken seriously. In our view, the preparation of the Minister for this debate was far from satisfactory. On several occasions, the Minister indicated that he would return to important points only in the second term, points which had already been raised in the written round. Nor does the letter provide a clear answer. Perhaps it would have been better if the Minister had spent as much time preparing the debate as in his talks in the corridors. The Chamber asked the Minister what legal basis he intends to distinguish between a little illegal, an illegal and a very illegal provider. The Minister still owes us the answer to this. He won't get any further than the Ksa will take all aspects. He does not indicate how long the cooling-off period should be, nor exactly what that is, a cooling-off period. He does not indicate how the provider will then have to prove that he has not been wrong. Nor does he indicate the legal basis on which he intends to make that distinction. The motion-Building Master c.s. is the motion-Bouwmeester/Van Toorenburg/Kooiman. Mrs Kooiman, Mrs Bouwmeester and Mrs Van Toorenburg assured me that the Minister did not interpret the motion as intended. The phrase in the letter "In my opinion, the above gives a responsible and feasible interpretation to the Bouwmeester c.s motion. The Minister can therefore delete the legal basis for the legislative proposal. In the reply, the Minister implicitly said that. nl-domains, for example, would get a permit and. com-domains not. My group is not in favour of the proposal to organise distance gambling, but if the majority of this House supports the proposal, I propose that the cooling-off period proposed by the Minister for illegal operators should be at least five years, so that a level playing field is created. I would like to hear the Minister's reaction, but in order to avoid a third deadline, I will now submit the next motion. The President shall: Mr Gerkens, Mr Koffeman, Mr Bikker, Mr Kox and Mr Reuten proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the motion-Building Master c.s. adopted by the House of Representatives (32264 No 19. calls on the Government to ensure that illegal gambling providers are not eligible for authorisation to offer online gambling;]] [[Whereas the Government indicates that it intends to introduce only a cooling-off period for illegal providers;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that authorisation for the provision of distance gambling is granted only to parties who have not been engaged, active and specific to the Dutch market for a continuous period of at least five years, from the date of entry into force of the law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33996-O]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u41	Mrs Gerkens suggests that she has more knowledge of the contents of the Buildmaster's motion than many here in this Chamber. Is that knowledge that Bouwmeester c.s. had a five-year term in mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u42	No, that's not the case. It is good that you ask that question, because then you say: why do you interpret it like that? I see this law as a dangerous car, with which one should not really be on the road. Your motion suggests installing a seat belt in the car, but I think an airbag is better. In the end I say: with this car we should not really go on the road. However, if the majority of this Chamber decides to send the car on the road, we will have to do something to make it a little safer. Hence the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u43	I can only follow that very well, but you started your second term with a hint of: I spoke to the people of that motion for a moment and the Minister does not understand it properly. To be honest, I feel the same way. We have, of course, asked several times in the written preparation of this debate to be specific about the motion. That is what the Minister has become increasingly so. My motion was intended to give further form to that. My question to Mrs Gerkens is how she herself interprets this motion in relation to that five-year period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u44	I think I've been very clear about that in my term. In fact, I actually spoke to Mrs Van Toorenburg about this. I met her last night. It's been a lot of fun. Perhaps we could have had a drink with the four ladies, but only Mrs Van Toorenburg was there, unfortunately. They were really clear. They say that illegal providers should simply not get a chance on this market, just not. But I can count heads, too. Then I say, this is a dangerous car that goes on the road. Then at least let me install another airbag.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u45	If that is the case, do I understand correctly from Mrs Gerkens that anyone who has ever made an offer illegally could never be eligible for a permit?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u46	Actually, that's how you should understand it. I understand exactly what you are up against, because that is what we, I think, are constantly running into in this debate: what is 'illegal'? Should you, if you have been a little bit illegal, for example because you happen to have Dutch in your file but you never aimed at it, be punished for that? That's the problem with this whole law. How are you gonna decorate that? You cannot make that distinction, you can end up in harrowing cases and at the same time you open the door to those who have indeed been engaged illegally, perhaps with money laundering. Then I find two years really too short and I want at least five years. Mr. Chairman. We also asked about the online advertising policy. Here too, the letter leaves something to be desired. How is the Minister going to ensure that there is no advertising online that reaches young people under 24 years of age? What does that mean in concrete terms? What's the penalty on that? Why doesn't the Minister choose a time lock on the Internet? The Minister proposes to monitor developments, but what exactly is monitored? If the Minister does not already have a clear picture of the developments, how can he monitor them? I would like to ask the Minister once again to introduce an overall advertising ban.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u47	Mrs Gerkens asks: why not a time lock on the internet? That was also my question, but I realize that is probably very difficult to achieve. Mrs Gerkens was just very real about all the possibilities of evasion. How real does she herself consider the possibility of maintaining it in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u48	Asking the question is answering it. I fully agree with you: I do not think that is possible on the Internet. I don't think you can ever get a good idea of advertising policy on the Internet. You may be able to make agreements with large platforms, but many other platforms where young people sit, and games that show all kinds of advertising, you can't maintain that. I am very concerned about this with you. I therefore call for a total ban on advertising. That sounds pretty clear to me. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a wake-up call for this minister. In another capacity, I am engaged in fighting against images of sexual abuse online. In the Netherlands, we have an internet host that is pertinently not participating in the voluntary notice-and-take-down scheme. Despite the fact that this host host hosts a website with the worst possible material, the police do not see an effective opportunity to deploy article 54a. One of the reasons for this is that as soon as it is removed from one side, it comes back on the other side. I'd like a response from the Minister to this. In addition, Article 54a is only applicable in the Netherlands. How will the Minister address sites hosted abroad with Article 54a? The Minister's answer to this question is also inadequate. Let it be clear that the SP will never be in favour of blocking sites. This is a pointless method, which affects the infrastructure of the Internet. Mr. Chairman. I'm closing up with Holland Casino. I can be brief about this. I don't see a majority in the Chamber for rejecting the establishments. Then there are two possible flavours: either the Minister withdraws the proposal or he has it tuned. I'd like to hear from him what it's gonna be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u49	Thank you, Mrs Gerkens. I give the floor to Mr Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u50	Thank you, Mr President. I won't complicate it. I heard the Minister and the Secretary of State very well last week. The letter we received after that did not add much to that. Of course, no one wants to increase the number of gambling addicts or players at risk of being addicted, but the expectations of the effects of the two legislative proposals dealt with seem to differ. Better: the weighting of these effects varies. Privatising and increasing the number of land-based casinos, encouraging competition between them and limited in target range, but in fact unlimited advertising for what is called recreational gambling is explicitly intended to increase the number of players. No matter how much control the operators will be exercised, it can only lead to more risk behaviour and addiction. Are we gonna take that for granted or aren't we gonna? Legalizing remote gambling is intended to replace illegal and unprotected games with controlled games. This gives the player more certainty, confidence and protection, but in order to get enough players to the legal offer, illegal providers who behave well during the cooling-off period should be licensed and, at least for the first year, intensive advertising should be possible, online and on television. The legalisation of illegal immigrants is, however, not an attractive prospect. The second, the advertising, will help to make gambling popular or at least accepted. This advertising and the fact that there is then a safe, reliable and licensed offer will remove customers from the illegal circuit, although not all of them. But no doubt it will attract new customers as well. No matter how safe the offer is made and how well it will be controlled by the Ksa, it can only lead to more risk behaviour and addiction. Are we gonna take that for granted or aren't we gonna? The legislative proposal allows for stricter measures against illegal gaming providers: binding instructions to payment service providers, marketing companies and other service providers, and criminal protection of risk players in the form of the CRUKS. These are good measures that can help in the fight against addiction. However, the further intentions of both legislative proposals almost inevitably lead to further popularisation of gambling and thus to additional risks. Are we gonna take that for granted or aren't we gonna? I don't really want that. However, I would like to see CRUKS and making it possible for binding indications to come back in a modified legislative proposal, because that will help the Ksa to fulfil its role, protect risk players and combat illegal offers as effectively as possible, at least better than today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u51	Thank you, Mr. Ten Hoeve. I give the floor to Mrs Van Bijsterveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both directors for their reply last week and thank the Minister for the letter he has sent. However, the letter sent by the Minister to the First Chamber last week raises as many questions to my group as the answers given by the Minister during the debate last week. As regards the regulation of advertising and the banning of illegal gambling sites, I would like to join the spokesperson of the Christian Union, among others, just now. Has the Minister answered my first-term question about DNS and IP blockades outside the field of gambling? If not, I'd like to hear that answer today. I am now focusing on the first point of the letter, the execution of the Bouwmeester motion. Which providers is the Minister talking about? Illegal providers who continue to actively focus on the Dutch market are not necessarily the same ones who have made illegal offers in the past, although the Minister uses these terms alternately in his letter, as if they were the same group. And when we look at the first category, I wonder if it is only providers who have received a warning or a fine from the Ksa. Does that "continue to focus" relate to the moment of giving the warning or the fine or at the time of the Minister's commitment last week? If not, what then? Is the second category also concerned only with providers who have been fined or warned? If so, when they have followed up, can they not be prevented from doing so, even through a cooling-off period? If not, it seems to me very strong that they can be temporarily or completely withdrawn from the market for the sole reason that they subsequently appear to have offered games of chance, without being called upon to do so. In short, it remains completely unclear what the commitment relates to. Does the Minister still want to clarify this? Then there are some criteria the Minister mentions. It seems to my group that using iDeal as a payment instrument, unlike, for example, a credit card, is quite an arbitrary criterion for banning a provider from granting authorisation. The other two criteria are also somewhat wobbly to my group in making a distinction between providers who already offer online gambling games, such as the domain name and the advertising element. This also applies to the period of exclusion, two or three years, where the choice between two or three years makes quite a difference. Even assuming that it is possible to use these criteria, the commitment affects only a very small part of the total gambling offer. The expected 45 providers will be there, including licence holders who already offer gambling games, with both domestic and foreign branches. If countering a commercial advantage or banning a large number of providers from abroad as such is the underlying idea behind the Bouwmeester motion, then the commitment made will therefore have no effect. I just didn't get a chance to read the motion of the spokesman of the Labour Party very carefully. But if it indirectly means that only foreign sites are banned, then I wonder if that is European law. I would like to ask the Minister's response to that. Then there is the legal basis on which it is based. It is a question for my group whether the Minister can carry out what he said in his letter by letter to the First Chamber at all. The Minister explains what he wants to do, in the form of me. It is just not the Minister who grants the licence, but the Gaming Authority, as has also been discussed by interrupting. The Gaming Authority acts under the law. In the law, the distinctions and criteria with which the Minister now comes up are nowhere to be found, at least not by me. The Minister also refers for a reason to a rather general article of law. In short, does the Minister have anything to do with it? We suspect that it isn't. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. My group does not make these comments because it is such a strong supporter of legalising online gambling, increasing its offer and the associated advertising. My group raises this point because it doubts whether what the Minister has promised is sustainable, and if so, whether it puts any weight on the table. At most, in the latter case, only a small part is affected by that commitment. But the issue that really raises the Bouwmeester motion will therefore simply continue to exist, and that is simply inherent in legalising internet gambling as proposed by this proposal. In assessing the significance of the Minister's commitment to the implementation of the Bouwmeester motion, all this is of course relevant, especially for groups for which this is a fundamental element in the assessment of the proposal. Mr. Chairman. For my group, this point, the first point in the letter, is only a part of the larger picture of objections to the proposal. The Minister states that gambling addiction cannot be completely prevented and therefore wants to promote a comprehensive, attractive and legal offer of online gambling opportunities including advertising. My group takes the view that illegal online providers are not entirely preventable, but that it is possible to better enforce and extend the powers to do so. The Minister states that there is an autonomous increase in online gambling and that legalisation is therefore necessary. My group states that increased supply through legalisation and associated competition, advertising and recognition will only increase the increase in online gambling. In the first period, I asked the Minister a number of specific questions, such as advertising, the ceiling on the number of online providers, the possibilities of avoiding addiction thresholds by the players, the functioning of the CRUKS and the effects of advertising on young people, even if it is not aimed at young people. Unfortunately, many of these questions have not been answered by the Minister, or he has only raised them through the outline of general dilemmas. I would ask the Minister to answer these questions, which I cannot repeat now for the sake of time. On the other proposal, the Holland Casino proposal, my group does not have any further comments at the moment. We look forward to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u53	Thank you, Mrs Van Bijsterveld. I give the floor to Mr Knip.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u54	Mr. Chairman. My group would also like to thank the Minister for his first reply, supplemented by a letter of formal notice. He also addressed the phenomenon of the Bouwmeester motion. In itself, the intention seems very clear to me. She's not unsympathetic either. Only, if it's so hard to block websites... That's hard. This has already been demonstrated by the documents, but also by a number of colleagues here this afternoon how in practice it leads to enormous difficulties in achieving this. How can a motion builder be carried out, for example, by banning suppliers for a number of years, if it is so difficult to keep those websites out, so to speak? That curiosity arose with me just now in the discussion before this. I acknowledge that it will be very difficult and that maintaining on unwanted sites may be very difficult to pass. That leads me to a question. A little lightness is being done, also by one or two speakers this afternoon, about the possibility of giving instructions to payment service providers. Isn't it true that if the Ksa can do that it will be unable to perform certain payment services? This means that the person who wants to play along cannot lose his input in the direction he wants, but also that he will not receive any prizes. Isn't that a much more effective way than trying to block or extract websites from the Internet? That was my first point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u55	I think Mr Knip is right that following and blocking the flow of money comes a long way. At the same time, we must also realise that this is the world of the Internet and that there are a lot of alternative payment methods that are also used for extortion on the Internet, not only with ordinary money but also with bitcoin. It does something, but unfortunately we won't be able to resist it, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u56	Okay, I'll take note of that. The minister has this problem and he's gonna fix it all, I think. Yeah, I'm very optimistic. What the Minister has left a little behind, perhaps there wasn't enough time left for it, but I'll come back to that. The relationship between the Remote Gambling Act and the General Data Protection Regulation. I have just mentioned the point that the player's consent to registration is required. That makes sense. Because it is online and on a site, it will undoubtedly go this way.I have also said that there is a box somewhere: do you agree to be registered? You have to check it, because if you don't check it, you just don't get on the website. I have a question and will specify it a little more. If the player has put that check mark, he will therefore agree to a possible registration in the CRUKS by the end of the day if he shows certain signs in his behavior. Does this also mean that if concerned family members report to the Ksa, which results in registration permission, the Gaming Authority will talk to concerned family members about me? I have called that a bit ironic: also the distant nephew I never speak to, but who is worried about his legacy. Just as realistic: will the Ksa talk about me without my permission, or can I ban it? Can I say in advance that I absolutely don't want that? In other words, does the player have a voice in that now? To conclude that point, does the Ksa actually have a protocol in mind for how and under what circumstances I am being discussed with concerned persons about my behaviour? Do I get to know that as a player? That was my second point. The third and final point is the relationship between the prevention ladder and the duty of care. I have asked: does it have to be legally followed by the providers of that prevention ladder that if the provider does not do so quite correctly and the player, more or less, becomes an addiction, then there is some liability? I think that would be civil-legally best to construct, but I will make the question a little more concrete. Will the Gaming Authority facilitate this when asked, for example in the form of evidence and that sort of thing? I'd be curious to find an answer to that. Not least, and with that I will conclude: that would be an extra stick behind the door to the providers, because otherwise this could lead to considerable financial consequences. Mr. Chairman. My group is in favour of these two laws, which will be clear, but I am curious to hear the answers to my questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u57	Thank you, Mr. Cut. I give the floor to Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister for his answers last week, and also for those in the letter. I'm mainly concerned with the proposal for a law on remote gaming. In fact, last week, we heard that the whole Chamber has a wide range of concerns about the offer of games of chance at a distance, that it involves aggressive advertising and that this can cause harm to addiction-sensitive consumers. I think we're all struggling here with the question of how best to limit that damage. Shouldn't you actually be imposing a licensing obligation, but just maintaining it? That's what we've been talking about. My group is not yet convinced that that is the most effective way, also because of what is in the letter, namely that you are having a waterbed effect when it does not completely disappear. The advantage of a licensing system could be that you can attach conditions to it. You can say: you can only do this on condition that there is prevention policy and risky behaviour is identified. And that is something that needs to be dealt with. So that is what my group sees as advantages. At the same time, however, we can see that this is only a strong argument if it can be effective and if such a licensing system can actually be maintained. And that depends on a lot of conditions. One of the questions I asked last week is, for example, whether the big players, the licence holders, are actually being dealt with if they do not comply with the rules. The Minister said, "Sure, we're gonna do that." If the legislative proposal is adopted, we will monitor it well, and this will also have to be made clear in the evaluation. The question is also whether there really is sufficient capacity. So far, of course, we have had very little capacity. Is it very similar? Isn't it manageable now, and you're going to be able to do it because you might also have more capacity for it? Do we also have a guarantee that it will be enough? My question was also about another point, namely that of cooperation with abroad. The Minister has not said so much about this. All studies, as well as the various examples, show how crucial this cross-border cooperation is. After all, the providers also operate across borders, and in this way they can easily evade the rules. The Minister mentioned a letter of intent last week. Well, that doesn't sound very convincing to me. There really must be effective agreements on the taking over of certain prosecutions, enforcement and so on. So I would like to hear a more detailed answer from the Minister on how that works. We have no jurisdiction and we depend on goodwill and cooperation across the border. A lot of questions have been asked about this cooling-off period. In fact, my group really likes to join those questions, because we too have a lot of questions about how we can actually achieve that. We, too, believe it is important that illegal providers should not be able to take advantage of their advantage. We still see many possibilities of evasion and we also see vague criteria. In the letter, for example, it is about: what is good behavior? What are these priority criteria? The Minister is right to say what the requirements of EU legislation you have to comply with in order to be able to set those criteria. However, I would like to ask the Minister how, in his view, those vague criteria do satisfy those requirements of 'objective criteria', 'knowable' et cetera, etc. For example, aren't those two years arbitrary? Is it even proportional? And what is "knowability"? Is an AMvB being made or not? Or should it have a legal basis? That whole cooling-off period has no legal basis. Aren't we gonna run into that? I'd like to get some clarification on that point. Then there's the commercial. I was talking about aggressive advertising, but any form of advertising is still a way to lead people on the way to the providers. Last time we talked about whether it is really necessary to advertise. The Minister says: yes, because it helps to channel. I really wonder if advertising is necessary. Advertising here is actually recruiting people to take advantage of the online chance games. I see Koa's bill mostly as damage control. In doing so, we ensure that people who play, that companies that offer the games of chance, are subject to restrictions. But why should one be able to advertise it? I think consumers who want to gamble online will find their way. For us, it is much more important for the government to provide information about the dangers, for example. Why should these providers be able to recruit? That is more the question of principle. It also depends on the extent to which it is enforceable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u59	I shall first give the floor to Mrs Andriessen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u60	I have a question about advertising. Of course, we would like the players to move to legal providers instead of playing through illegal providers they know now. Wouldn't it be wise, then, to give legal providers the opportunity to advertise? That way they can draw the players.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u61	I think that's a bit of a crazy question. I am assuming that illegal companies should not be there. You're gonna maintain that. Those illegal companies are not allowed to advertise, and you're going to maintain it. So why couldn't you just have a general ban? After all, illegal providers should not be there, let alone be allowed to advertise. But you can say to the licensed sector: okay, you can be there, but you don't necessarily have to go proactively lure people to your site.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u62	I understand what Mrs Strik is saying, but perhaps she can think again about the fact that it can also have advantages if players are reminded that there will soon be legal providers where they can play very nice roulette.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u63	Yeah, but the question is where the border is. On the one hand, you can point out to people that they can now also go to a legal, licensed company. And on the other hand, there is real advertising where it is also made attractive for people to go there and take a guess. And where's the border? We have already thought about this and we also have a motion on this, which I would now like to table. The President shall: Mr Strik, Mr Koffeman, Mr Gerkens, Mr Diederik van Dijk and Mr Bikker proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the aim of the KAA legislative proposal is, inter alia, to protect consumers from the risks of gambling addiction;]] [[Considering that legalisation entails the risk of increasing the reach of consumers who will also increase the chances of gambling addiction;]] [[Whereas advertising online gambling has the effect of improving consumers' access to online gambling, which will expose more people to the risks of gambling addiction, which could undermine the aim of the Koa Bill;]] [[calls on the Government to introduce and maintain a general ban on distance gambling, including for licensed companies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33996-P]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm curious to hear the Minister's appreciation of this. In any case, we also had questions about what the Minister is now proposing about advertising on TV until 7 p.m. We share with Mrs Bikker that this is very arbitrary and reluctant. Most people watch TV intensively after 7:00 p.m. And we also wonder to what extent advertising can be reduced, for example, on Facebook. Are participants allowed to advertise, so people who use online games themselves? Can Facebook advertise gambling sites yourself? I'd like to hear some more clarification. Mr. Chairman. The Koa proposal is all or nothing. The offer is illegal, or it is granted to the companies that meet the conditions, and then it is free on the market. My group would have preferred more gradual steps, for a little more control over supply, for example a limited number of licences distributed across different disciplines. We therefore consider the evaluation to be very important. Here too, we must look at whether we have not let it go too much on the market. Do we have the question of how many companies there will be not too dependent on the market? Or should we step back there? Then I'll come to the bill of modernisation of the game casino regime. Before that, too...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u65	I think it is very nice to see Mr Strik's idea of: are we not getting ahead of ourselves by opening up that market to everyone? At least that's how I listen to her. In order to stay in Mrs Gerkens' metaphor: do we have to get in that Formula One car? Or would a slightly more sustainable and perhaps more quiet variant be wiser? Because how Mrs Strik puts it, I see it this way: we just crashed into a wall and are now going to evaluate, with the result that there were too many providers. Can you go back, even from European law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u66	That's an understandable question. But we are now faced with the choice of whether we are going to support the licensing system and look very closely at how it works. Or do we reject it now, after which we have nothing and remain stuck with illegal companies, which we can try to crush every time, and then they come back again? My group is not in favour of the idea of: it is never going to work with a licensing system, so we have to keep it entirely in government hands. That is why I think it is also important that Koa should work, that we should look at this very carefully, and that we should then be able to see what that means for the game casino regime, for example. As far as I'm concerned, gambling is not necessarily a public function. But that might be necessary if it is not real to say: let the market regulate it and limit the damage. But first, I want to see how that's gonna work out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u67	But the big danger is that you won't be able to go back, but you can only mop what there is to mop. While: if I had listened carefully to Mrs Strik, she would ideally have seen a situation with a limited number of providers. The law has not yet been accepted, the contradiction is far from underneath it, I would say, so why do you immediately reject or accept it and put your head in the lap? That's just not how I know GroenLinks. That's always one of those parties that has a lot of eyes for the future and keeps popping for that. I'd like to see that worked out a little bit more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u68	I am very pleased with the positive image you are presenting of our party. It's just that gradual steps would have been better. But that does not mean that this is necessarily irresponsible. I really think that's going too far. That depends on how the policy is maintained, how strict the policy is and what the advertising policy becomes. Are you going to allow that last one or not? That's what we're gonna have to wait and see. I did not say that we are by definition in favour, it will be negotiable under a number of conditions. I do not see that if an evaluation reveals that there is too much market to regulate, you would not be able to take back. Why couldn't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u69	In addition: a feature of gambling is that if the roulette wheel is turned off, you can not say after an evaluation of the gamble that you take back a part of your inlay. That's hard. In that sense, I would therefore like to endorse Mr Bikker's appeal, which says: if this is not your ideal model, then stick to your ideals. Is it perhaps also an option to make the reservation that if all those motions that still want to stick to the proposal are not accepted, the gamble will not be taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u70	As I have just said, we are not saying yes now. We are really going to look at the Minister's response, how he will react to the motions and whether the motions will be adopted. That is very important to us. Should the law come into force, I certainly do not rule out the need to put the reins back on at some point. I'm not ruling that out either. But we will certainly look at what it will look like in its entirety and whether we have received sufficient guarantees.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u71	I understand GroenLinks' reasoning from the point of view of GroenLinks. I hear the spokesperson now saying that we could perhaps tighten up the reins even more. Now GroenLinks' spokesperson is a very experienced Member of Parliament, who has experienced a lot of legislative evaluations and who probably, like other spokesmen, knows that the reversal of regulation actually never happens, even if the evaluations were negative. When you start more carefully and the evaluation is positive, it is easier to go a step further. I'm just gonna give that a little thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u72	In this respect, I do not put my head in the lap, because I do think that, if evaluations show that it is not working properly, it can be fitted with a sleeve. I hope that we can influence that and find you on our side if we want to change that. That is why it is so important that the modernisation of the game casino regime is not going to happen and that we are really going to see how this is going to work without throwing the child away with the bathwater. Perhaps that will be the ideal model, even for these remote games of chance. I don't want to rule that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u73	On Mrs. Strik's motion. It refers to a general advertising ban. Can you try to explain to me how people could be drawn to legal providers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u74	I don't see Koa's entire bill as a proposal that aims to attract more people to online gambling. If people want to play online, they start looking for sites where they can. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Natuurlijk kun je dat, je kunt via Google echt wel op onlinesites komen.]] It is not just a matter of not advertising the licensed sectors, but of not being able to advertise remote gambling. Then no one will have the head start of customers they already have and who will find them on their own.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u75	Now you have lost me, because I believe that the purpose of this whole law is precisely to get some grip on the market. If we send the minister out with a law to get a grip on the market, but no one can say that there are legal providers, then what good is that law? I am very careful about that, because I have heard your objections and those of the SP Group that you should be careful about advertising. That is why I very much welcome the Minister's commitment to monitor this every year. But you've got to do something to get that level of channelization done, don't you? Why else do we have this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u76	Again, it is not the case that illegal companies are allowed to advertise. So no one's allowed to advertise. I'm assuming illegal companies are being banned. So it's really hard to find these companies on the Internet. If you want to gamble online, you'll get to the legal companies sooner. That's one thing. The other thing is: advertising is really recruiting for me, proactively attracting people. What is not excluded is, of course, to point out that "there are opportunities for legal gambling," with information about the dangers of gambling addiction and so on. But I don't mean that by "advertising."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u77	Last time: there are a lot of people who gamble on illegal sites, because with us it is not allowed. Then you expect them to change at some point. How?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u78	The Minister may state that, but I assume that the whole idea of licensing is intended to achieve channeling, which means that there are so few illegal companies that they can be maintained and disappear. That's the ideal picture. I don't want to say that's gonna happen right away, but that's the idea. So, assuming that's what you're assuming, most of the offer will be legal. That's gonna be a lot easier to find, too. If it's okay, there are no more illegal companies. So yes, you already have enough incentives for players who are used to playing, who like to gamble on the internet, to sign up at a legal site.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u79	I'd like to get some explanation from you as to how you see the relationship with the present bill. Do you think there should be a change in the law? Does a bill have to be deleted? That is not quite clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u80	In any case, I want the Court's ruling that advertising should be banned. It is then up to the legislator to consider whether the law should be adapted accordingly. The core of the law is the fact that there is a licensing system. The cooling-off policy is not in the law either. If it's okay, it's taken care of at AMvB. Of course, you can also lay down detailed rules on advertising.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u81	So, if I understand correctly, you are not proposing to amend the law on the risk profile for advertising and that sort of thing; that's all settled, but to give some thought in the implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u82	Yeah, it could be. We cannot amend a legislative proposal here either. It is something I would like to give to the Minister, and I ask the Chamber to support me in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Strik. I give the floor to Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u84	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the Minister for answering our questions in the first term and also by post. The debate has raised a number of issues concerning the fact that the organisation or facilitation of gambling is not a public task. I agree with that, but we have to note that the creation of Holland Casino never meant that gambling or facilitating it would be a public task, but merely came from the idea that the government could act as a framework. It seems that this idea is being abandoned, in the great desire for market forces and self-regulation. We very much regret that. My group is playing for sure and will vote against the sale of Holland Casino, because the cabinet has not given good arguments to justify that privatisation. As far as online gambling is concerned, we have to note that the Cabinet does recognise the great dangers, but fails to act against them. The 24-year limit to protect people from gambling advertisements that they consider harmful is completely arbitrary and offers no guarantee of protecting people with a predisposition to gambling addiction. There is a need for borders other than age limits, and these borders are not set by the Cabinet. In that sense, that age limit is completely illusory. Illegal providers may simply proceed after a cooling-off period. Oscar Wilde once stated that every saint has a past and every sinner has a future, but the criminals who now exploit illegal gambling sites, aimed at the Netherlands, cannot be declared "holy" or "safe" within a short time. My group therefore supports the Gerkens motion to extend the cooling-off period to five years. Such a period is certainly fair. I'd like to hear from the Minister what might be against that. The same applies to the Van Dijk motion, which we have also signed, and motion for a resolution on a ban on advertising. It really surprised me that in this debate a number of colleagues say: but how are these legal sites supposed to attract customers? As if that were a task of the government. At the Good Goals Lottery and at the Postcode Lottery we regularly see an extra trekking, but an extra trekking via advertisements for legal sites we cannot place. Mr. Chairman. The distance, inherent in remote gambling, is hard to bear with the thought that the Dutch government is going to help and protect people who are vulnerable. We can't place that combination. It's not gonna happen either. We do not need an evaluation; we can say that already. The lack of enforcement currently in place cannot be eliminated by legalising illegal activities. In any case, the Minister has not been able to convince us of this in any way, but he has one more possibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u85	Thank you, Mr. Coffeeman. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. I'm gonna take a look at the minister. Are you able to answer directly? No, you're asking for a 20-minute suspension. The sitting was suspended until 3.40 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u86	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u87	Mr. Chairman. Thank you, also to Members for their second-term contribution. I understand the points that have been made very well, especially where there are concerns. I see those concerns. I am also alert to it, but at the same time I think it is an honest debate, because I can tell that there are a lot of concerns about the current situation, where we can see that there is actually only one offer. That is, by definition, illegal, with all the dangers of that. I'll finish the themes. I'm starting with how we think we're gonna implement the Build Master's motion. There are many decent parties that have not broken Dutch law. As far as I am concerned, they are the first ones to be discussed, because they have no past. In my view, they can apply for a permit. Those may be Dutch parties, Mrs Andriessen early to Holland Casino, but it may also be foreign parties who want to join the Dutch market. Illegal providers who want a licence must first prove that they can behave and that they are prepared to respect the instructions of the Ksa, regardless of the cowboys who do not care at all about the Dutch laws and regulations. By definition, we want to ban it. But the middle category is about parties that in the past have shown behavior that we say: yes, sometimes they have actively entered the Dutch market and that was not good, but if those parties have the willingness to improve their lives and to comply with Dutch laws and regulations in the future, then the question is whether you should definitively exclude them, if there is legal room for them, or whether you should give them another possibility. That's what the cooling-off period is watching. The question is, how do I see this cooling-off period? It is intended to give providers the opportunity to show good behavior. So what's a reasonable deadline? There are two motions on this subject which are somewhat more specific about deadlines. It is actually a period that is long enough to observe a sustainable change in behaviour and which, if you look at legislation and regulation, is also seen as proportionate. I am more in favour of Mr Postema's line, which is based on a two-year period, than on a longer period, namely five years. It has also been asked, if you are going to work with such a cooling-off period, how that is regulated by law and what the legal basis is for that. The basis is Article 31i WOK. That's the reliability test. It states that the reliability of an applicant must be beyond doubt. In the AMvB this is further completed by looking at backgrounds and actions. That's not the only thing. In addition, the Ksa makes additional policy rules, which specify exactly what one has to comply with. These are policy rules and priorities, of which the Ksa says: in this way you can speak of actually acting actively on the Dutch market, for example through targeted advertising, by using. nl extensions. From abroad you can also work with such an extension here by using typical Dutch characteristics and Dutch payment methods. iDEAL is a good example of this, because it is mainly aimed at the Dutch market. These are all elements that the Ksa takes into account to say: yes, this is an active and focused approach of Dutch players. Mrs Van Bijsterveld asked: how about that? Can the Minister undertake to do so? I've had extra and intensive contact with the Ksa in the last week. The Ksa indicates that, on the basis of the law, the AMvB, and the policies underneath, they have sufficient control to indicate and apply content here. Mrs Bijsterveld also asked the critical question: 'I understand whether this is actually a use of what is meant by the laws and regulations, and whether a kind of improper distinction is made between Dutch and foreign parties, for example, to give Dutch parties a head start on other entrants on the market.' The answer to that is straightforward: no. No distinction shall be made between the nationality of providers. It is purely a question of whether the rules have been broken in the past. In this respect, there is a non-discriminatory application of that principle of reliability. Mr Dercksen asked about the use of alcohol and drugs by foreign suppliers. If there is a provider who, for example, deliberately violates all kinds of laws and regulations in the country of origin or in an EU country, that is an element that the Ksa can involve in the reliability test.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u88	The Minister continues, but is he actually saying that the Ksa made a commitment and that he expressed it in the letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u89	The Ksa and I sometimes sit at the table, especially because of the reason for this legislative process, but also because of the way in which this has to be worked out. We are now working on the lower laws and regulations. All this must be workable. That's what I'm talking to the Ksa about. Can it apply that exactly? But it is also a wish of the Ksa. The Ksa itself has an interest in the fact that new entrants have proved that they respect Dutch laws and regulations. The way I have just indicated this must be workable and legally sustainable for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u90	Then there's my second question. The Minister makes a distinction between different illegal providers. He also talks about illegal providers who can prove that they can behave. There'll be some kind of procedure for that. I don't want to go in there right now. The Minister also talked about a middle category which in the past has "actively" focused on the Dutch market, but which can behave in the future. How can these providers, on the basis of what we are now exchanging here in the Chamber and what the Minister apparently has been discussing with the Ksa, know that they will be excluded on that basis? I assume that this is not limited to the group that has only been fined or warned. If that has not happened, if they have never acted against them, if they still have a Dutch domain name or. if they didn't happen to have a credit card as a payment method, but iDEAL, then you can't just say that they've been active on the market in the past, that they're not reliable and that they only have to wait two years? I think that's very questionable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u91	I mentioned the Ksa's policy rules which will be adopted for the future, but they have also been established in the past. This is about the Ksa's prioritisation in enforcement policy, which includes some of the elements I have just mentioned, for example those extensions, which are payment methods. They've just been published, too. With this they are known, also for these foreign suppliers. You can expect from this type of large provider, if they focus on a particular country, that they have knowledge of the laws and regulations in force there and also of the policy rules that the regulator applies to them. Mrs Van Bijsterveld also referred to this: it is more than just the providers who have been fined in the past. The Ksa will take a broader look at whether there has been an illegal offer that has been actively promoted by a provider. Mrs Van Bijsterveld also asked: if you are going to apply that, is the number of permits you wish to issue or intend to issue tied to a ceiling? The answer to that is no. In principle, this is an open system. We used about 40 permits in the past. At the same time, we do see something of consolidation in the market, which is reducing the number of players. They are getting bigger players, but less in number, so perhaps it will also be a little less, also in combination with the execution of the motion master and the cooling-off period. Then I come to the motions that have been tabled. The first one on this subject is the Postema c.s motion. with letter L. That is a motion which I could very well support and on which I can leave the judgment to the Chamber. That motion actually aims to do exactly what we want to do: look at the reliability of the parties in a way that, in my view, is proportionate when it comes to the cooling-off period. This is different with the motion with letter O, by Mrs Gerkens, which assumes a substantially longer period. If you maintained that, I think that would make the scheme more legally vulnerable. So on that motion, I would like to give the advice "dissuade." The second theme is advertising. I indicated in the letter what we want to do to regulate advertising in a good way, because, of course, I also see, in the Chamber, that there is a tension with regard to the desire to lead players from an illegal to a legal and highly regulated offer. I am really convinced that you need a certain form and a certain level of advertising for that. Otherwise, players will not know it is there and the channeling will be very limited. If the channelisation is very limited, it will also be more difficult for the Ksa to effectively combat the larger share of illegal supply. But, I say again, advertising is subject to all kinds of requirements and regulations. Not targeted at specific target groups, with a certain time window on television, not aimed at recruiting for excessive play. Also very important is a hard divorce. For example, it is suggested in the Chamber that there might be hidden advertising in games for online gambling. With this bill, we are banning it and giving the Ksa the tools to act actively against it. It goes through a certain intervention ladder. It starts with warnings, of course, but it can then be suspended and even withdrawn, and they can even be applied. So at that point, the Ksa has really powerful possibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u92	Everyone run, who's first at the interrupt microphone? Mrs. Strik. Please keep it all brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u93	The minister says we need advertising to lead people to the licensed sector. I am left with the question of how much confidence the Minister has in maintaining the ban on illegal online games. If that is sufficiently effective, the offer is very difficult to reach anyway. That's my one question. The other question is: could it not be enough to provide neutral information to consumers that illegal online gambling is prohibited and that there are legal opportunities for people looking for it? For me, that is a difference from advertising, which is much more focused on proactive recruitment of people to play that game.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u94	May I ask Mrs. Gerkens and Mr. Van Dijk if you have any questions to answer, or if you have any other questions? Mrs Gerkens has another question. Mr. Van Dijk, do you have another question, or a question that fits in with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u95	It is indeed very similar to Mrs Strik's question, so I'm just going to put a little bit on top of it, if that's okay. Is advertising necessary to create sufficient attention for the legal offer, or can public information play a role in this? That was Mrs Strik's question. You will, of course, come to the motions, but in view of the tension that the Minister himself is setting out, I ask: is it not good to just map out what is possible when we are talking about the ban? What are the consequences? Is it also accessible by means of information to the public? Isn't an investigation a very logical way out?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u96	I start with Mrs Strik's question: do you have sufficient faith in the effectiveness of your enforcement? The answer is yes, because there will be additional instruments for the Ksa. But I also believe in this enforcement, because the quota on which you are going to maintain in a market where more channeling to legal offers has taken place becomes more effective because it concerns a more limited number of players. But in order for that channeling to succeed, you first need the current players to switch from illegal offerings to the later licensed and also highly regulated Dutch providers. That is, Dutch awarded suppliers. I'm a little hesitant when it comes to the investigation Mr. Van Dijk is referring to. We see in other countries that it has been necessary to use advertising to guide players from the illegal offer to the legal offer. Then there is the question of information. I think you can and should do education anyway. You went into detail in your speech, but I also tasted it a little bit with Mr Postema, who said: can't you do more to show who will be really legal, with labels or information websites? Yeah, I think we can do that. But I don't think it will be enough to channel the massive supply. Because if 1 million people are playing illegally now, you want to channel about 70% to 80% of them, as far as I am concerned. You're gonna have to pull it from there towards legal offer. Then you need a limited form of advertising in my eyes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u97	The Minister is merely arguing for a transitional period of advertising. Maybe he can go into that. What else do you need for advertising when that channelization is achieved?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u98	That is a very good point from Mrs Strik. Even if the market is channeled, I think you'd like to keep it channeled. But my commitment, even in the first period, to follow the way it works from year to year, also offers the possibility of turning buttons when necessary or possible, before the formal legislative review takes place in three years' time. Look at Belgium, for example. Although we have a much stricter policy in the field of advertising and we are beginning to do so as well as what they started doing at the time, you can see that, now that there is a regulated market, some steps are being taken to regulate advertising even more strictly. Moreover, at a level which, I think, is similar in many respects to what we have been doing from the start. So looking from year to year does offer an opportunity to let your advertising policy go hand in hand with the extent to which you succeed in bringing the channeling to a successful conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u99	Very briefly, Mrs. Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u100	We were also talking about the question in the debate: shouldn't you at least warn about the dangers with every advertising? Article 4a of the WKS says something similar about this. Can the Minister guarantee that this will really be the case with any advertising?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u101	I believe that applying and enforcing the elements that ensure proper prevention of addiction is crucial. This is about this kind of thing, but it is also about providers that actively target, for example, younger target groups, under 24 years of age. The Ksa has a lot of possibilities to maintain if we do not do what we have all agreed on here, based on data analysis, but also on notifications and on the progress of the paperwork and the purchase of suppliers. So you just need to be able to discuss what you have purchased, for example from online advertising providers or agencies. So, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u102	I would like to go into more detail about this enforcement. There is no secret advertising in games, there is just advertising in games. I'm playing Candy Crush-- I'm willing to admit that, and I see regular advertising of casinos come along. How's the Ksa gonna maintain that? Are they going to play Candy Crush, which I don't recommend, because it's very addictive? Can I report that later? You want me to do a screenshot? It's fleeting: such an ad will soon be over and I actually want to continue playing. What is the Minister's view of maintaining that online advertising?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u103	There are a number of ways we can do that. To begin with, the Ksa performs quite intensive data analyses, also to see what is happening on the internet. It looks at online advertising activities, but also at activities on social media platforms. If we are going to have a very clear separation between games and online gambling with this law, then I can imagine that this will also be monitored further. In addition, the Ksa may receive notifications from third parties. If you think as a random player "I don't think this is in the hook," you can call the Ksa to point them out. The Ksa can then check it out. That can be done in two different ways. She can take a look at such a website herself. If you say "I saw an advertisement coming through from provider x, an authorized Dutch provider," then the Ksa also has the power to ask that licensed provider: gosh, show your papers on exactly where you bought advertising space. You don't just come into a game room, you don't just come into the YouTube platform of a vlogger who is especially popular with young people under 24 years of age. That's the advantage of that very targeted microtargeting you can do over the Internet. You can very consciously choose not to focus on young people. Then you don't want to end up there. In television we work with window times. There's a lot to think about, but that's a generic thing. Online you can focus on specific target groups. If you do not want to end up with young players and vulnerable groups for up to 24 years, you can make agreements with online advertising providers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u104	I believe that the latter is certainly true. The question is, is it working? GTA is a 16-plus game and I know enough 7- and 8-year-old kids to play it. In such a case, the provider would immediately say: I have focused on a higher target group. The minister says the Ksa is going to look at data streams. I always find that a very nice, vague statement. Can the Minister promise me that if this law has entered into force, I will see casino.nl or casino.com pass a lot less often in my game? In a rare case, I can report that I understand, but the Minister says that with these means he will reduce advertising, including from illegal providers, and if so, how?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u105	The answer is yes, because you can do two things later. If licensed providers do this kind of thing, you can contact them immediately and withdraw the licence if necessary. Then they have a big problem, because then they've made an investment and they go black. As far as the illegal part is concerned, we think we will be much more effective if the market for illegality becomes much smaller, together with further measures in the legislative proposal for enforcement, for example. For example, the order that you can use towards payment platforms or online advertising providers not to do business with illegal providers becomes much stronger with this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u106	Finally, Mrs Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u107	I don't think the latter is right. Those advertising providers work worldwide and massively. I do not think it is possible for the Minister to say to an advertiser: you cannot place advertisements from casino.com in the Netherlands. The Internet is really too wide for that. So I think the Minister still has a challenge on that last point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u108	I don't have the illusion that I can make it completely watertight. That's why I'm not gonna give any guarantees in terms of: you're never gonna see those ads anywhere at all. But your question was: will it be less and will you have more opportunities to act effectively against it? And to that the answer really is yes. Some of the things we need for this are now missing and are in the legislative proposal. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Bikker asked about the sports commercial. There is a difference between an entry on a football club shirt and an individual player who promotes himself as a figurehead of a provider. The latter is not allowed, because we specifically see that this is very popular and that young people under 24 years of age are also sensitive to forms of such marketing. This is also in the lower laws and regulations. The Ksa should be able to monitor that. You also have a certain balancing and assessment framework: these are the rules. You'll find cases of which you say: this is a bit on the edge. Then the Ksa has to cut a knot and then you as a provider run the risk of being in violation and putting your license at risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u109	I've heard the minister say some really good and beautiful things about banning new gambling players. That is precisely why it surprises me that the choice is made that individual athletes should not advertise. I see a lot of club logos in the schoolyard and we see the many gambling millions already pouring into the football clubs, given the similarities. This is a Chamber for reflection and sometimes a minister can take a thought for reflection: is this the example we want to give? Do we really want to link the sport to gambling so directly? Soccer games are broadcast after seven o'clock. 8:30 p.m. They start watching and the children of 8 years old are also watching. What's that supposed to mean? I can't reach that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u110	This is always a trade-off. I support the idea: we do not want an active recruitment by appealing athletes who are idols for young people. At the same time, one of our best Dutch cycling teams has been sponsored by the lotto in recent years. I didn't mind that very much myself, but that's a personal opinion. You can say "we don't want to," but I think it assumes less recruitment power than an individual athlete who says: I'm that one and that one, I'm famous and I... All these kids want to look at a website like this. They're being lured there. I think we have struck a good balance between allowing providers to make themselves known and preventing extreme recruitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u111	The lotto is known as the least addict-sensitive form of gambling; so does the minister. Given his circumstances, I'm sure he's also aware of a certain imagery action with a certain grandgrutter. You can see how it's sponsored. It's on the hero's shirt. I really think it's too skinny an answer. I'm not making a big deal about it right now, because that's not what I'm talking about right now, but I really think it's something for reflection in the future. What do we radiate from this, especially when it comes to sport, which we are all in favour of? We're giving everyone a healthy future, but here we're sending a different signal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u112	Mr. Chairman. Speaking of sports, I'm getting to the toto. Several spokesmen asked: what exactly is the implementation of the Kooiman amendment? Should accounts of players playing via e-commerce at the existing toto be destroyed? The Kooiman amendment prohibits the authorisation holder from using personal data in recruitment and advertising activities based on the idea that they have been processed in the context of their participation in another game of chance. The idea is that there is no unwanted recruitment from, for example, the State lottery to online gambling, because the latter are more risky. After the entry into force of Koa, online betting on sports matches and horse races is also subject to a Koa license. Now marketing authorisation holders offer these products via e-commerce. These products are therefore existing, non-changing games of chance. These are forms of games that already exist. I think Mrs Gerkens indicated that in the first term. Players have an online player account for this. For the sake of channeling, I think it is desirable that they should not be destroyed. Of course, the online providers will have to meet a lot of other things, but this is the way I will be happy to implement the Kooiman motion. There have been three motions on advertising...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u113	Mrs. Strik, I'd like a quick one if I could.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u114	I thought you were going to another block, but you're gonna stick to advertising for a while. There were also concerns about the limit to seven o'clock in the evening. I hope that you will also address the question of whether this should not be a little later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u115	It's always arbitrary: do you do seven o'clock, do you do nine o'clock? We would like to start with seven hours, because in any case you do not approach the youngest target groups with this kind of television advertising. This is true only for television, because online window times are also technically a very complicated story. The Ksa will look much more at online advertising... Online advertising is sent much more to the person. For example, I get a lot of advertising that has to do with things that I find interesting and with my age group. This also means that those who are about to buy and offer advertising should make very clear agreements with online advertising providers that their advertising is not visible on, for example, platforms that are very popular among young audiences, also because I do see that young people are watching less and less TV and are increasingly active online. That is perhaps the advantage of this very specific targeting: that you can also avoid getting involved with specific target groups. Mr. Chairman. Three motions. The first motion is from Mrs Bikker and is based on the inclusion of a number of things in the evaluation. I could do very well with that, so I would like to give the judgment to the Chamber. What I find more complicated is Mr Van Dijk's and Mrs Strik's motions, because they actually announce a total ban on advertising. I really think, also on the basis of what we see elsewhere in Europe, that this is seriously endangering channeling. If the channelisation is seriously compromised, then our whole story of maintaining the hopefully smaller remnant of illegal immigrants will also be called into question. I would like to inform the Chamber, both Mr Van Dijk and Mrs Strik, and all the other signatories of this motion, that I will be very tight on it. I want to see how the channelization is going to develop, how many players are going to develop, whether there is indeed recruitment, and if so, how much. We want to make a particular effort to withdraw people from the illegal supply to the legal supply. I would also like to keep a finger on the wrist. This can be done later, if we can do more in the area of addiction prevention, which means for problem cases. That means that if we say "this is not going well, advertising is getting better than we thought in advance," you can turn those buttons. I promise the Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u116	I find it a little strange to hear that channeling now depends only on advertising. I can also very well imagine that there are other methods. We have talked earlier in the debate, this week and also last week, about informing the public, to name but a few. We have also talked about enforcement, which, of course, is also a very good tool. I also remind you that online gambling is now illegal, but according to all kinds of research many Dutch people don't even know that. You might want to get started on that, too. I find it very strange that we are being told at this stage of the debate: the whole of the legislative proposal depends only on the possibility of advertising. Let me add one last thing. The Minister says that advertising is so important and that autonomous development increases the number of players. Does he not agree with my group that advertising will only increase the number of players? So that's different from channeling.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u117	I never said the whole bill was just based on the whole idea of advertising. It is a set of many elements. If players do not know that there is a legal offer and are already active with illegal providers, for example, they will be unlikely to make the switch. I think that a limited form of advertising is necessary for this channeling. This is confirmed by experts and also by experience abroad. The fact is that we are one of the last countries in Europe to regulate this properly in legislation. We have been able to see things with a number of neighbors, and learn from them, which have gone well and which have gone less well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u118	Where was the Gaming Authority then all these years, when those games of chance are very easy to find on the Internet and it was just illegal? Where was the Gaming Authority, the government, P.O. Box 51 or anyone at that time? Of course, I certainly did not claim that it only depends on the point of advertising, but I hear the Minister himself saying that the channeling is not going to work if we are so strict on advertising. Channelization was precisely the spearhead of this bill. Of course, we understand that this bill includes more articles than just advertising, but the Minister is now making it a very serious issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u119	Of course, the Ksa performed. In the first period, I indicated something about the fines imposed in the past year and the year before, I believe 1 million and 1.5 million. They also performed when it comes to advertising. But you know as well as I do that the Ksa has been saying for a long time: give us more options. The Ksa stated in its previous annual report that it is concerned that what is in this bill is not yet there and that it is necessary to maintain it more effectively in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u120	Finally, Mrs Van Bijsterveld. Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u121	Surely the Gaming Authority did not need additional powers in the past to show the Dutch people that playing online gambling is not legally permitted?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u122	No, but that is obvious to me as well, and that has always been said. Just because there is no legally authorised offer and apparently hundreds of thousands of players are able to find their way through the Internet to illegal immigrants, it is the very essence of this bill that is almost unexploited work to make it completely final, if you cannot point people to a legal alternative. What happens then? You press one and you hand out a fine here and there, but then it poops up another way. With that, players have no alternative where they can go.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u123	The Minister has pointed out a number of times... he refers to foreign experiences that should prove the right of his statement: advertising is necessary, otherwise it will go wrong with that channelization. What, then, resists, quite simply speaking, by noticing these experiences, giving them an appreciation and sending them to the First Chamber in order to test the Minister's statement for a moment whether, without advertising, we are risking channeling or perhaps there are alternatives? What's so difficult about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u124	Then we'll be repeating ourselves a little bit in this discussion. In the written round of questions we have had, for example, it has been pointed out to Norway that there is a more limited number of authorised suppliers and, in my view, more stringent in terms of guidance and advertising. We can see that the channelization has stuck there at about 20% to 30%. That means 70% of the players still play illegal. So it's a huge task for a supervisor, a Ksa, to counter that. We believe that the turning point is about 60% to 70%. And yes, then you also have to attract people to that legal offer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u125	This is the last time, Mr President, not to repeat itself. The big question is whether or not advertising is the game changer. I'd like to get a little more sense of that. But clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u126	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to prevention. This bill does a lot of work on prevention. It's a really long list. The stepped prevention model, CRUKS, the 100% control of age and registration, the compulsory contribution to an addiction prevention fund. With the latter, the money can be invested in research, in help, in information. This is all very important. Mr Ten Hoeve said: I would like CRUKS, but without the legalization of the market. That is a complicated one, because you can only impose such conditions on providers that you then grant and then you can also ensure that they comply with all the requirements we make about prevention. It is therefore an essential part of this legislative proposal to ensure that addiction prevention also succeeds. Then a number of specific questions were asked about CRUKS. Can licensed providers see the CRUKS register, or are there restrictions on it? The licence holders can't see the register, but they get a hit or a no-hit at the control of a player. That is the signal for them whether they should grant access or not. In addition, in order to protect the personal data, a whole set of personal data is not always sent from the Ksa to the holder of the authorisation, but a specific CRUKS code is used. Mrs Van Bijsterveld asked whether there would be a gap if there was a temporary registration in CRUKS. Experts indicate that you really need to put it on hold for a while and block it, if you want to achieve a sustainable change in behavior. A minimum period of six months is recommended. So both the voluntary registration and the involuntary registration are therefore bound to that six-month period. Prior to registration, players will also be informed about the appropriate assistance, and also motivated to use it. So it is first examined whether you can come up with a voluntary participation in, for example, aid offerings. If that is not the case, it could be a reason to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u127	I also asked in my first term about the amendment to Parliamentary document No. 27. Does accepting that amendment mean that involuntary exclusion in CRUKS applies only to land-based casinos? Or does this apply to both online and land-based? In my view, it only applies to land bounds, because of that amendment. But I'd like to hear from the Minister if I can see that correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u128	Mr. Chairman. With all due respect, Mrs. Van Bijsterveld doesn't see that very well. In my view, that is nothing more than reassuring for Mrs Van Bijsterveld, and I hope for other spokesmen in the Chamber as well. Mr Knip asked how we are doing with contacts. Does the Ksa talk to family members when, for example, a third party notification is made and you have, so to speak, a box on the front? The Ksa may receive those notifications, but may not provide information from the player to third parties. But the notification is a signal to the Ksa that they can, for example, approach a player, for example to see if there is an excessive game, of a risk. Would there be a willingness on the part of a player to participate in a voluntary offer? And if he gets in his sights, the problematic playing but keeps going and there is a suspicion of addiction, for example, then CRUKS can be aimed at mandatory exclusion of half a year. I have a few things to say about supervision and enforcement, and specifically about the point of application of Article 54a of the Code of Criminal Law. Mrs Bikker asked if that had ever been applied. Not very often, but sometimes, where there have been websites that could also be associated with terrorism. I must also say critically to your Chamber that Article 54a, even in the way it has been formulated as a sort of exclusion ground, has a number of weaknesses. That is why it is being replaced, with the Computer Crime Act III, by a stricter instrument. In addition, the D.A. can issue an order. And not following that order could eventually lead to a take down. Ms. Strik asked if the big players would be dealt with if they didn't follow the rules. That question is actually a shot for open purpose. The answer to that is really complete: yes. Mrs Bikker asked if the Minister would withdraw a licence if providers accessible to the Netherlands would also want to remain accessible to providers outside the Dutch regulations. So let's say you have a provider who is licensed and therefore has a legal offer in the Netherlands, but who, so to speak, also keeps an illegal platform next to it. If that attracts and recruits Dutch players, then that provider is indeed in violation and risks withdrawing his license. So there is a wide-ranging view. There was also Mrs Strik's question about Ksa's capacity. Is there sufficient capacity? The answer to that is yes. This applies not only to capacity in manpower, but also to technical applications which are now being developed there in order to be able to monitor the new form more closely. This will also be done in a less labour-intensive way, for example with big data and the use of control databases by providers. But an important element in this bill is that licensed providers are going to make a contribution to the Ksa, in order to ensure formation expansion. Of course, this is something that we will be taking with us every year, and ultimately after three years in the evaluation. Then let's look at: was it enough? Is that enough? Mr Knip asked about the payment service providers. Is that effective? In our view, that is certainly effective. Now it can only be done on a voluntary basis and so it does not happen everywhere. Soon there will simply be a mandatory order imposed. And maybe that shutting down that network around illegal providers is many times more effective than shutting down the player himself. Because if you can't pay anymore or you can't receive your playing winnings, or if you can, so to speak, flatten the whole offer of all kinds of advertising, so that it just doesn't attract players anymore, then you actually have all your goal. Then Mrs Van Bijsterveld asked whether DNS-IP would be applied in other areas. Making a website inaccessible by applying the Code of Criminal Law, as I indicated, has been applied to terrorism. Whether to make this inaccessible also saw on DNS and IP addresses is not entirely known to me. I do know it's been done in civil law by blocking The Pirate Bay, the illegal download site for movies and music. Then I'll get to the motions. I have a motion from Mr Postema on enforcement. He actually asked whether there was a gap in the enforcement instruments could be taken into account in the evaluation. I think that makes a lot of sense. So I'd like to give that motion judgment room. Then I have a question from Mrs Bikker and Mrs Van Bijsterveld on horizontal consistency. I understand these concerns. At the same time, I note that the WOK already applies different market organisation models to different types of games of chance, from public monopolies to open systems with private providers. For example, we have an open system for the less risky charity lotteries and small games of chance, but also for the more risky slot machines. In May 2018, the Administrative Court Department considered that the system as we now have, with these different enforcement modalities, meets the requirement of horizontal consistency.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u129	That's what the Council of State knew the moment he issued the opinion. Not that judgment of May 2018, but the observation that these different regimes exist. Nevertheless, the Council of State, in particular, criticises this bill: but beware, this is vulnerable to European law in terms of horizontal consistency. Then I understand the Minister's reasoning that he also wants this bill to go through, otherwise he wouldn't be standing here all these hours. However, I would like to ask him to take a more precise look at this vulnerability and why he considers it so different from the Council of State in his opinion on this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u130	We discussed this in our response to the Council of State's opinion. We value it just a little differently, because we already see that there is variation in the whole regulation of gambling: some parts are monopolized and are even subject to shareholdership of the State. I come to that and there is the slot machine sector, which is actually also free and open and in which Dutch municipalities play a strong role. For the time being, in legal practice, this has not led to an infringement or a situation in which outside parties have successfully invoked the fact that this would be contrary to European law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u131	I can imagine that this will be beneficial for outside parties when they see opportunities in the Dutch market because there is an inconsistency there. That is precisely what concerns me about this bill, if we do not limit the number of permits. We are still searching around Holland Casino; I await the answer of course with interest. What does that imply for other regimes where things are moving? Especially when there are large parties who see the opportunity to open up that gambling market and see millions of people shining through it, the Minister's answer still doesn't reassure me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u132	In the end, practice has to prove this. I think it's legally sufficiently solid. For this particular bill, because we release it, it is less vulnerable than usual. If we had said here that we are assuming a limited number of permits, it would certainly have been more vulnerable than if we had opened it now. Mr. Chairman. Then there was also a question about international cooperation. That is because this is a matter for the individual Member States, and we must do it on a voluntary basis. At the same time, I can see that, if you are dealing with enforcement across national borders, it can help if you make good international agreements on this. This is not a European policy, but it can be done multilaterally or we can explore what is possible in strengthening international cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u133	I welcome that commitment. Can we therefore expect a report back on what it will yield within a short period of time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u134	Maybe I can do that with the annual feedback I do. 'Cause the calls still have to be started. I can, of course, come back to you every year to show you the developments in the number of licences, the number of licences refused and the developments in the players' lives, also say something about the progress we are making on the international front. As for this part, the Remote Gaming Act, I think I've answered all the questions. We have had a strong debate. I see it's not an easy choice for which we stand. I also hope that you will understand that that is why I really choose a very cautious approach. I am convinced that the bill is ultimately the best way to really protect players. I'm going to monitor the effect on all these areas with the Ksa right after the entry into force of the law: gambling addiction, advertising, effects on payments. I come back to that every year. I am convinced that this is a very careful and cautious way of taking steps and making meters.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u135	I had asked another question about the use of databases from existing legal providers and whether they could continue to use them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u136	Existing legal providers? Then we're talking about the Toto and the Horse Totalizer. Since there is already a form of e-commerce, I have said that this is actually a continuation of the company. It can be used for that. The amendment that was tabled on the other side of the House at the time was intended to prevent, for example, the address database of the State lottery, where a lot of Dutch people buy a State lottery ticket, from being used to launch recruitment campaigns later, when the NLO applies for a licence for online gambling. You can't have that last one. You can't have the first one. Mr. Chairman. With the Koa, we are committed to a number of very necessary steps to protect players from illegal offers. I welcome the support of a number of groups in the second term. At the same time, I also have a great deal of doubts about the bill that monitors the modernisation of the casino industry. Actually, I'm tasting that on two parts. For starters, that's the timing. I believe that Mr Postema and Mrs Strik have already asked in the first period why everything has to be done at the same time. Shouldn't you be looking at how to handle one thing before you start second? But I have also heard concerns, for example with Mrs Bikker, who had to do with volume growth. We have said that we do not expect huge market growth. At the same time, the number of licences increases from 14 to 16. How exactly does that work out? I would therefore like to take a serious look at some of these points and ask your Chamber not to put that bill to the vote, so that I can see whether amendments to the bill are necessary. That will then lead to a possible novelle. If it turns out that you need more time, that also means something for a different path, where we have to see how we proceed with this bill. In short, I would like to return to the drawing board with that. I would ask you not to put that bill to the vote and the Koa bill will.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u137	The Minister mentions several reasons for his request. It is therefore not entirely clear to me what exactly he intends to do and what the timetable is going to be. Does he want to make it dependent on Koa's evaluation? Or is he going back to the drawing board anyway? And what's he gonna change? Maybe he can give us a little more insight into his intentions after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u138	I actually want to do both. Mrs Strik and Mr Postema asked: should you not do so after Koa's evaluation? That wouldn't be for another three years. At the same time, questions have been asked about the spread and extension of 14 to 16. If you would like to amend that, you should also amend the bill, but that in turn has consequences for the distribution and the anticipated channelization. For example, there are some white spots in the Netherlands where there is currently no casino, while there is a need and also a player offer. So I have to sit down with the Ksa to discuss exactly what this means. I also have to sit around the table with Holland Casino, because of course they have prepared for the sale of the shares there. I want to see what the consequences would be if we could take more time for this. I hope you'll give me that time. Then I can come up with a letter before the summer on how I think I'm going to proceed with this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u139	I believe that this is a sensible decision by this govern ment because there were indeed a lot of questions about the privatisation of Holland Casino. Do I understand that he is going to look at the possibility for smaller lots and the possibility for Holland Casino to participate earlier under the Wet Koa, as I asked earlier?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u140	Well, then we're actually ahead of the results. I'd like to take a broad look at that. At the moment, I simply do not have sufficient support for the legislative proposal in its present form. So I want to look at questions like "should it be changed?', "Would we have to take more time?" And "are there possible other variants, as you are now describing?" I just have to go back for that, to talk to the lawyers, to talk to the supervisor too, and also to discuss with the company that we would have liked to put in the window what all this means.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u141	I should like to comment on what the Minister has just proposed. You propose to ask the Chamber to uphold legislative proposal 34471. The Chamber must give leave for that. I think it is therefore a good thing that you tell her something more concrete about what you want to do with keeping the bill. The arrest of a legislative proposal occurs if it is clear that the majority of the Chamber, for example, stumbles over one article of it, which says: for these reasons, we cannot accept it. If a request for arrest is made then it is clear that one article is likely to be changed by a novelle. But it's not quite clear what you'd like to keep this bill, Mr. Secretary. We have strict rules in this Chamber for arrests, including how long they can last, or how short they can last. But there must be a specific reason to say: I want to keep it. Consultation with these and genes is beautiful, but there is a law that has been passed by the House of Representatives. Once again, the request for arrest on your part should therefore be a little more specific, such as 'for this reason I request your permission to be arrested'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u142	In that context, I would like to hear from the Minister what an arrest or a possible repeal of the bill on the modernisation of the game casino regime would mean for the position of Holland Casino if the Gamblings Act were to be adopted remotely. Can the Minister confirm that Holland Casino will then be treated in the same way as other parties wishing to qualify for a licence?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u143	Mrs Gerkens also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u144	I would then like to ask the Minister the following. I have heard a number of parties say that the reason why they are reluctant about the legislative proposal is also related to the other legislative proposal. To what extent can the changes the Minister is considering have any consequences for Koa?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u145	You can see the two legislative proposals separately. When Koa is put to the vote and is adopted, that naturally has effects on all players on the market, so also on Holland Casino. This means that in principle Holland Casino can also make use of the new possibilities offered by the law. But Koa can simply be applied and executed, even if the modernisation of the casino regime might be withdrawn. I would like to do two specific things. I would like to look at the provision based on extending the number of licences from 14 to 16. If you want to change that, it requires an amendment of the law and with it a novelle. The second thing I want to look at is the timing. At the moment, I can't see enough about the effects for a company like Holland Casino if you take more time for the bill. It was also an explicit wish of at least some political groups in this Chamber to leave a little more time between Bill 1 and Bill 2.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u146	I ask you again: for what period of time did you wish to have an arrest?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u147	If you will allow me, I will go back to the drawing board to study this and also to talk to stakeholders and stakeholders. I think it should be possible to return to you with a letter before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u148	That will be February, March, April, May, June, July. We have an arrangement that can last a maximum of six months, unless there are particular reasons to ask again. But it's been a very long time. And that drawing board... You must realize that there is a law passed by the House of Representatives. I would therefore ask you to come forward with something within three months if the Chamber wishes to give leave to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u149	I don't know if three months is gonna be enough. I know this law has been passed by the House of Representatives, but it's been a long time. So I'm not going to take any longer than strictly necessary, but I guess I really need more than those three months if I really want to do it right. In the end, it is up to your Chamber to decide whether it agrees, but I would ask you to understand the situation. I would like to take the contributions of the groups seriously here and I think it should be possible to come up with something at the end of May in the course of June.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u150	Can I have one more time before I give you the floor, Mrs Strik? This Chamber is effectively present as a Chamber until 10 June at 00.00 a.m., but the last plenary session of this Chamber in this Chamber is on 4 June. It seems very sensible to me that the spokesmen who have now spoken on these laws should also give the final judgment on this issue. This means that we must finally discuss this at the end of May.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u151	Mr President, I am going to do my best.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u152	I think it continues to avenge the fact that the request for arrest is linked to two thoughts, because, as the Minister rightly pointed out, a number of parties have just asked for it to be retained, or at least not to be dealt with yet, before we have seen the evaluation. We can now wait for a letter, but I note that these objections will of course remain, because Koa has not yet been evaluated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u153	No, but that letter may also say that we're taking more time, or that we're totally abandoning it. There are a number of possibilities: an amendment to the bill, a repeal of the bill, a revision of the timetable. I do not want to anticipate the results too much, but I need time to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u154	I look forward with interest to the letter, but I note that, if it were to meet the desire to wait for the evaluation first, we would go very far beyond the deadline agreed by the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u155	I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u156	I repeat that, as President of this Chamber, I am firmly committed to ensuring that this law is dealt with during the membership of the current spokesmen of the Chamber. That could happen on 4 June, the last meeting to be held effectively, but rather the week before. If not, the bill will simply be put to the vote; ready!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u157	That's clear. I'm just gonna do everything I can to send the Chamber a letter before then.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u158	I have just mentioned the fatal deadline. Otherwise, we'll just put the bill to the vote. Mrs. Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u159	The clock is also ticking for me, but I'm still a little confused about what exactly appears in the letter. The letter may include what the Minister might want to do with the bill, or with the content of the bill. Do I understand that the Minister actually has no idea what he wants with this law, and that he is now trying to buy time to think about it and hopefully in May he will come up with a story on how to proceed? Is that how I'm supposed to understand it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u160	No, Mr. Chairman. I am specifically concerned with two very specific matters. I would like to take a serious look at the increase in the number of permits now contained in the bill from 14 to 16, and what is the meaning of that if you were to reduce that number back to 14. That calls for an amendment of the law, so a novelle. It's time-consuming. That's one of the parts. The other part is about a different timetable: take more time between the first law and the second law. That was Mrs. Strik's suggestion. I would also like to discuss this, because it is difficult for me to see what that means. I also have to sit down with my colleague in the Finance Committee, but as far as I am concerned, I come back to the fatal deadline indicated by the President, with a letter whether or not I am going to amend the law, whether I am going to withdraw it, or whether I want to put it to the vote. That's what the letter says.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u161	I hear the same story again. I thought the Minister would say clearly that he is going to look at enlargement and the timetable and then come up with a letter on what he is going to do with it. Then he says: and then I'm gonna see if I'm gonna withdraw the law, put it to the vote, or come up with a novelle. I still think that's clinging to two thoughts. I'm telling you the truth. Anyway, you've been generous, Mr. Chairman. I won't ask for a vote, but my heart is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u162	The Minister's proposal is now before us. He asked the Chamber to be apprehended, but with regard to this President, with a fatal deadline of late May, of legislative proposal 34471. Does the Chamber agree to arrest? Mrs. Van Bijsterveld?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u163	I have one more question, because it also started to make me feel a bit dizzy. Do you mean, Mr President, that the proposal will be put to the vote, whether or not with a novella, but under the regime of this Chamber, in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u164	Well, that depends. There will be a letter from the Minister, I understand. That's where he says what he's gonna do. If he states quite specifically that he is presenting a novella on that and that provision, then I can imagine that a new Chamber might decide on that, because that would be not so bad. For the rest, I believe that this Chamber should finally complete this law, this Chamber in this composition.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u165	So this Chamber, in this composition, is voting on that bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u166	It'll be back on the committee as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u167	I am at the end of my speech, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u168	But not at the end of your Latin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-eerstekamer-7.u169	Would any of the Members like to vote on legislative proposal 33996? That's the case. The vote on the legislative proposal will take place next week and the relevant motions will be voted on next week. With regard to legislative proposal 3471, the Minister has requested arrest. The Chamber can agree to this, under what I said as President. That's the case.
