ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u1	We are now going to conduct the report of the General Affairs Council on Trade. As the first speaker, we have Mrs Ouwehand of the PvdD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Under the wise lessons that you cannot be sharp enough, I have a motion on the loan submitted by MHP, Ukraine's largest chicken manufacturer, to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. We have noticed that the pressure is increasing, because the votes would take place today, but they have been postponed. That gives hope, because total adjustment can be within easy reach. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in 2015 the Chamber adopted a motion calling on the Government not to accept new loans from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) on behalf of the Netherlands to Ukraine's largest producer of chickens, MHP;]] [[noting that, on the basis of this motion, the Netherlands has always abstained from voting on new credit applications by MHP, which, however, made no difference to the outcome of those votes;]] [[having noted that MHP has submitted a new application for a loan of no less than EUR 100 million to the EBRD;]] [[Whereas, given the voting conditions in the EBRD, the position of the Dutch director is likely to be decisive;]] [[invites the Government to instruct the director of the Netherlands to always direct the EBRD to formal voting on MHP's credit applications, to vote against MHP's credit applications and to obtain support from other shareholders for that position,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that negotiations on an EU trade agreement with Mercosur countries have accelerated and that a final agreement may be concluded before October;]] [[noting that at present in Dutch shelves there are products produced in Brazil under much less stringent conditions, and in addition that chemicals banned in the Netherlands and the EU have been used;]] [[Notes that Brazil exported more than 300 million kilograms of chicken meat to the European Union in 2018, almost three times as much as Ukraine;]] [[Whereas a trade agreement with Mercosur countries will lead to even greater imports from these countries, including cheap beef, chicken meat, eggs and soya;]] [[calls on the Government to oppose in the various Councils a trade agreement with Mercosur countries whose agriculture is not excluded,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-2013]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-2014]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. This VAO has been requested by Mr Ouwehand van de PvdD, because she has reservations about trade agreements, such as those we have concluded with Ukraine, and about the trade agreement that the EU is concluding with Mercosur countries, among others. The Netherlands is a small country that plays economically in the Eredivisie. A third of our income is earned abroad. It is therefore very important for the Netherlands to conclude trade agreements in the EU. Of course, the VVD recognises that this is not always a good time for every industry, but the average of such a trade agreement is ultimately extremely positive for us. Of course, we also recognise that mistakes are sometimes made, such as with the chicken meat in Ukraine, but that must be corrected. This has nothing to do with a loan from the EBRD to MHP for the acquisition of a Slovenian poultry company. My colleague Amhaouch mentioned this earlier during the AO: let us ensure that we do not give a very negative picture of the conclusion of trade agreements, because these trade agreements are ultimately of vital importance to the Netherlands. With regard to the two motions tabled by Mr Ouwehand, the VVD will not support them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u4	Then I wonder why the VVD in the media and in questions to the cabinet is constantly critical about the deal with Ukraine, about the import of cheap chicken meat into the EU from Ukraine, about Mercosur and about what that means for Dutch agriculture. I thought: the VVD is being critical and is therefore also prepared to take the VVD in the cabinet................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Why do you ask critical questions, if you are not prepared to add the consequence that you, as a government party, can easily attach to them? Protect the peasants!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u5	The role of us, of you and of me as MP, is to ask critical questions. We need to check the cabinet. We do, so we have asked critical questions, also about the trade agreement with Ukraine. Where we find each other again, it has indeed gone wrong. There's been an increase in chicken meat because of some weird trick. We're critical of that. We also believe that this should be corrected. Nor do we think there should be a huge increase in the quota. This is without prejudice to my argument here that in its entirety trade agreements are simply good for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u6	[[Sentence could not be parsed: Dan kunnen we toch niet anders dan concluderen dat het praatjes zijn voor de boerenbühne?]] But when choices can be made, the VVD fools the farmers a little, while they are not paying attention. They are working hard while we are sitting here debating, and they are really not looking at this debate. It is nice that the VVD is now also critical about that deal with Ukraine, but at the moments when we could stop it, the VVD was against it. Now there is an agreement and the VVD says: oh yes, we are not so happy. More decisions! This applies to Mercosur, and that is the case with the possible loan to MHP. Just do what's in the hands of the VVD on time. You're a government party. You can stop this if you support us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u7	No. The point is that we want more trade agreements, but they must be properly implemented. They also need to be properly negotiated. A mistake has indeed been made on this small point in this great treaty. We have seen the consequences of this and we are going to correct them. Letters were sent to the Commissioner on this matter. So we have every confidence that it will be resolved properly. In general, trade agreements are fine; that supports the VVD. If anything goes wrong, we're gonna fix it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u8	Thank you. This is, of course, all the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation's area. Nevertheless, the Minister of Defence is in trade-K, because the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation is abroad today. The Secretary of Defense is going to give some thought to answering the questions asked. I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u9	I give the Minister the opportunity to comment on the motions. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will indeed confine myself to commenting on the motions, because I am indeed here as a replacement, as you yourself have said. I'll start with the motion in part No. 2013 by Mrs Ouwehand. It's about MHP. Where's Mrs. Ouwehand in the room? I'm gonna go find her. I have to get used to the positions of the Members of Parliament, because I now, of course, see Members of Parliament other than those with whom I normally debate. I can say a few things about this motion. We are in fact largely in agreement with Mrs Ouwehand's approach to this issue. We also intend to instruct the director to vote against the current loan proposal to MHP, especially if the proposal remained unchanged. Mrs Ouwehand is right: today's vote was cancelled. This is all in the run-up to the Trade Council, which will be held next Monday. That's why it's important that we're here together. The reason why the Netherlands intends to vote against is mainly due to the lack of additionality. MHP is actually a large company that runs well and can be expanded quickly. We are not convinced that a company would not be able to raise money in the market for this. In addition, the Netherlands has already sent out a critical signal on several occasions. Of course, it always depends on the votes of other countries whether or not the loan is granted. The operative part of the motion states that "the government shall request the director of the Netherlands to instruct the EBRD in due course." You can always do that. The operative part also states: 'Always to steer formal votes'. Since we believe that there should be a vote against, there should be a formal vote, so this part of the operative part too is not a problem. The operative part continues: 'to vote against MHP's requests for appropriations'. It's possible. Finally, the operative part reads: "and to obtain aid from other shareholders for that position'. Can I take the latter as an effort obligation? If it is a result obligation, it is complicated and I do not think it is possible. But if I may take it as an effort, I can leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. We have, of course, also closely aligned this with the Department of Finance, which, of course, also plays a role in this. I therefore read the latter as an effort obligation, I say to Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u11	Fine. I am very pleased with the clarification given by the Minister. I understand that the acquisition of support from other shareholders must be an effort obligation, because we cannot enforce that support. But the Minister is actually saying that formal voting is being directed towards the Netherlands and that the Netherlands will actually vote against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u12	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u13	Thank you for that explanation. We're in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u14	Does that mean the Minister's verdict is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u15	I've given the motion judgment Chamber, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u16	Judgment Room. Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u17	I just said that. Then the motion to part No. 2014, on Mercosur countries. Mr Van Haga also mentioned this in his speech. I will not go into that, but I would like to say a few words about the position of the cabinet. As the Chamber knows, an association agreement has been under negotiation for 20 years. Mr Van Haga also said something about this. This agreement should include a number of agreements on political matters, international cooperation and a trade agreement. The cabinet sees an association agreement with Mercosur countries as a very important agreement, both economically and politically. According to the Cabinet, the agreement also allows the countries to be a strategic partner. We believe that the agreement offers an opportunity to engage in a structural dialogue in other policy areas, such as climate and animal welfare. The Netherlands also calls for continued attention to be paid to issues such as animal welfare, climate, sustainable development and labour rights. The Netherlands believes that these matters should be given a place in the agreement in a robust way. We believe it is important to have a balanced agreement which also takes account of the sensitive sectors mentioned by Mrs Ouwehand, such as the poultry sector. We believe that the Commission is doing the same. In short, the Netherlands intends to support the agreement. But we're not gonna judge it until the end result comes. That is what Mr Van Haga has said in his speech, so I would advise against this motion on behalf of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u18	The Minister dissuade the motion in part No. 2014.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u19	However, about the first motion: it gives you judgment Chamber. I do not quite understand that, because it says: 'in voting against requests for appropriations'. Should I read the motion in such a way that you commit yourself to an effort that goes on indefinitely and that the cabinet will therefore vote against future requests for credit?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u20	From MHP, that's what it says.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u21	From MHP. So, with all future requests for credit, we don't know yet whether they are going to be made. The Minister is going to vote against?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u22	The Minister will not vote against in this case. I think it's good to keep the process in mind. For the time being, it is about this request for credit, which Mrs Ouwehand has talked about. But I have given an explanation of how the cabinet approaches this company. With regard to this company, my colleague has already given a critical signal on several occasions and we have abstained. There is now for the fifth time a transaction with MHP. In our view, the policy has not changed sufficiently, so we will continue to look at it in this way for the time being. We will now vote against and we will continue to look critically at this company.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u23	It's not entirely clear to me. You give the motion judgment Chamber, so that means that the instruction in the case of credit applications will in future be to vote against.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u24	I do not know if there will be any more requests for appropriations, but it is primarily a question of this application. We'll approach the company the way I explained. It does not change very quickly, so it will. I merely said that I do not regard the second part as an obligation to achieve results, because we, as a cabinet, cannot do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u25	Perhaps for the sake of clarity for my fellow Members, this is a small step further than the motion which the Chamber has already adopted and which has also expressed its views on future loan applications and future loans. The request, which was supported by the Chamber, was: do not agree. But that doesn't seem to matter very much, so you need to insist on a formal vote. This motion says: do so and vote against it. It is therefore in line with an earlier ruling in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u26	I have nothing to add to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u27	Well, that's obvious. I thank the Minister for her response to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u28	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u29	I do not think there are any further questions open, so we can conclude this VAO now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u30	We will vote on these motions today at 1.25 p.m.
