ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u1	We will continue with the debate on a relaxation of the children's pardon. We have arrived at the answers of the Secretary of State. I call the Secretary of State for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Following the many questions in the Chamber about the coalition agreements that I sent to the Chamber yesterday, I would like to first give a brief introduction in a few sentences. Then I will answer the questions, first about the children's pardon and the re-evaluation, then about the abolition of discretionary powers, then about the IND and finally about resettlement. First a few sentences for introduction. I am well aware of the fact that a number of new agreements have been reached with regard to the coalition agreement. Together, these are all agreements and measures that have come from one common thread, namely to contribute to the future prevention of long-term stays in the Netherlands without people having right of residence. The measures taken to achieve this aim have been to contribute to the fact that people who come to the Netherlands and are told at some point that there is no legal residence in the Netherlands and also see that judgment confirmed by the judge, feel less invitation or incentive to remain in the Netherlands in the hope that there will ever be a change in that position. Either by a children's pardon scheme which may offer hope of'maybe I could meet it in a number of years', or by the hope or expectation that there will sometimes be a State Secretary who can look at a case again. This is far from happening in all cases, but it does keep the expectation alive that it will eventually be able to reach a different decision. That therefore maintains that people remain in the Netherlands against better knowledge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u3	The hope the Secretary of State just mentioned, he just gave those people. You say "not to give them hope," but you give them hope. You have said: if you are here long enough, if you do not comply with the rules, if you put those judgments next to you, you will eventually qualify for a residence permit; I will then sprinkle with residence permits. This is, I believe, the fifth time in the last twenty years that there has been a new arrangement in the Netherlands. All these people don't hear what you're saying. They see what you're doing. It's not about your words, it's about your behavior. Africa and other parts of the world where people come from, see that in the Netherlands someone always gets up with weak knees saying: well, there are so many, we give a general pardon again. Your story of taking away hope isn't right. With your decision, your wrong decision, you have given hope to a lot of people that permits in the Netherlands will be okay if you don't follow the rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u4	Mr Wilders presents a number of arguments which I also have against a general's pardon. This is not a general pardon, it is a re-evaluation, which offers relief for many cases, but not all. That's where it deviates from the past. When I see the political reality and the desire of other groups to open up the coalition agreement, I think it is very important in what context such a review is taking place. Then I think it is very important what measures are being taken. I note, for example, that the previous children's pardon, six years ago, was accompanied by a measure aimed at being very clear and strict that people would not be able to derive rights from their situation in the future. But the simple existence of that arrangement, even though almost no one complied with it, has kept that hope alive with many people. For this reason, I have endeavoured to ensure that if such a review is carried out at the moment, it is embedded in two measures aimed at making it much clearer and preventing long-term stays. That is the abolition of the Children's Pardon Scheme, which also makes it quite clear that there is no longer any regulation that you can rely on. The second point is that the discretionary power no longer exists. I will go into detail later on as to why this is so important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u5	The point is right now, and again, I am not only blaming this Secretary of State, because he has not been in that position for 20 years, which in the past five of your predecessors have already said 'there will be no new regulation; I will stop doing so' and in the end there has always been a new one. Because then people go into illegality and there are a few hundred or a few thousand and then the children grow up here and then they come back on television. I understand you've tried to solve that problem, but there will be a new arrangement. No one in the world, neither do I, and neither do you, believes that in a few years' time someone will not come back with a new arrangement. And that's not wise. You said yourself, Mr. Secretary of State, in the Volkskrant of 7 November, about expanding the children's pardon that is then lost. And that's exactly why I agree with what you said back then. If we do this now, the end is lost. 'Cause nobody believes it's gonna be here anymore. That's what your predecessors have shown us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u6	Let me put something first. Even Mr Wilders says that this problem is never solved entirely. Then who am I to contradict that? No one has the ultimate solution that can prevent 100% of long-term stays. But what I do stand for and what I see in this package is that you always have to look for measures that at least make it easier for people to stay longer. I am truly convinced that these two measures can make a good contribution to the invitation in the system to stack, hoping that at the end of the day something might happen that will allow you to stay, there will be much less. I see this when I look back, not only at the time I held this office, but also at my predecessors. Will that long-term stay stop 100%? No. But then there is also the result that if people maneuver themselves into this situation, there is no other option than to ask the judge. That is the final judgment and then no other judgment is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u7	Finally. You have the problems together with the rest of coalition today, so not only have you, but you are responsible from the Cabinet of the European Union. You have also said before: this is about parents with their children. We're not talking about people who can't go back, we're talking about people who don't want to go back. It is crazy for words that you in the Netherlands need a working criterion when it comes to implementing the laws, and even that criterion you have now deleted and replaced with an availability criterion that nobody in the Netherlands understands. So your cabinet as well as your party, the VVD even though you are a servant of the Crown... have given an open invitation to all of Africa. They know that if you come to the Netherlands and you don't follow the rules, there's always a Mr. Harbers somewhere now from the VVD, maybe tomorrow from another party that says: now we're really going to get over our hearts for the last time, but we're abolishing the scheme. And everyone knows, in three years' time, that arrangement will come back. You are responsible for that, and that is incredibly unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u8	When people see such an invitation in it, two measures have also been taken to ensure that this policy is no longer inviting to stack long-term procedures and to remain long-term. I will discuss in detail how this will work in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u9	The Secretary of State said in his introduction that he "can live well with the adjustments to the coalition agreement." Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u10	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u11	Then why didn't he put that right in the coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u12	Because at that time the outcome was negotiated by the parties as it was. There are two things that are not covered: the abolition of the children's pardon and the abolition of discretionary powers. The latter has been in the mindset of the VVD for many years. For these reasons, because both of these measures are now part of this package, I am perfectly capable of doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u13	But then I have to say that after a week of bickering, the coalition has made an improvement in the coalition agreement. Moreover, the government agreement had already been opened up more often; think of the dividend tax and the salary dispensation. This has now happened for the third time. I have already said that this should lead to inspiration. I do have other examples for which the coalition agreement can be broken open. In any case, I think you have been negotiating unnecessarily uncomfortable with each other for a week, and then concluding that it is an improvement in the coalition agreement. You should have done it before; that was my suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u14	Sometimes the moment comes when the moment is there. It's done now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u15	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u16	I'll walk by the questions that have been asked about the different parts. As indicated above, I shall begin with the re-evaluation. Many questions have been asked about this, but I would point out in advance that it was decided last night. The availability criterion is set out in the letter to the Chamber. The way in which this is done will be further developed in the next few days. Like, for example, Mrs Kikk and Mrs Akerboom, and in my view Mr Van Ojik, I think it is important that the children in question be made clear quickly, but we must also remain real. Now that the letter has been sent out last night, it seems to me only logical that the IND does not yet have a plan of action in place. This is being worked on from today, but especially the implementation of the re-evaluation will require a lot of work from the IND. Of course, the IND will carry out that review carefully in collaboration with DT&V. It will be a re-evaluation of compliance with the reporting obligation and the appearance on the departure calls. In doing so, the files of all those people who have applied in the past will have to be reviewed. That will take some time, by its very nature, but let it be clear that the people who are in the Netherlands and who have made such an application are obviously not deported until their file is re-assessed. But it's gonna take a while, by its very nature, for everyone to get that new assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u17	I have a quick question. I understand that it is going to be carefully reviewed, but at the same time yesterday, in my view, the Secretary of State himself said that it is expected that about 90% of the current cases, if I may say so disrespectfully, will qualify. A kind of pre-selection has apparently already been made, and it has been established that around 90% of the 700 group is qualified on the basis of the new criteria. Is that right? And couldn't that speed up the process a little bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u18	The latter cannot, because it has been explicitly chosen to re-assess those who previously applied along the lines of that new criterion. The percentage that is circulating has not been actively taken into my mouth, but I do recognize that as a rough, first and global assessment of the services about how many people it could be. That is why I also said last night that many of these cases are involved, but I cannot, at the moment, attach a percentage to this, because that really will have to be the case for the documents of the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u19	I don't want to tempt the Secretary of State to mention a fixed percentage either. At least I'd like to, but I can't. But it is important to record that he says that a kind of rough assessment has already been made and that he recognizes that assessment on that basis. That's important, because then we'll know about what we're talking about. Is that right? Do you recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u20	I recognize that as a very rough, cautious, global and initial assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u21	It just happened real fast. I had asked a question about it in my term. Has the Secretary of State indeed said that until this review he does not evict children and families?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u22	That's what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u23	Okay, I'll just mark that for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u24	Again: a person who has made an application and still needs a re-evaluation will not be presented pending the re-evaluation. The plan of action is being made, but I can predict that it will spread over time. Those who have a re-evaluation will know where they stand at that moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u25	Clear. Are the measures as announced in your letter also being submitted to the Chamber? Can we have a proper debate on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u26	I feel like we've been working on that for five hours. There are several measures in the letter. I would have liked to have mentioned this in my answer somewhere further up...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u27	Then I suggest you come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u28	That's okay, even if I can do it right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u29	Let me get this straight, Mr. Chairman. Of course, we are now debating this letter, but it says: 'The final settlement will end today'. Everything is also planned with discretionary powers. Is there another debate on the measures you are about to take? Or are you going to do it yourself through the Ministry, without us being able to debate it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u30	On these two subjects the following. The first is the abolition of the children's pardon system. This is an adaptation of the Alien Circular, which will be published in the very near future. Questions have also been asked about transitional arrangements. At that time it will also be published what this transitional arrangement is. After publication, it is not for me to decide what happens to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u31	That's up to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u32	That's the one. Soon I'll go into everything about discretion in detail. That requires an adjustment of the Foreigner's decision. This goes along the line decided by the Cabinet on the advice of the Council of State. I have already said that the transitional arrangements are currently being worked out and published in the short term. Then I think I have answered all the questions about the re-evaluation. The re-evaluation concerns those rejected for the definitive scheme in the Netherlands. They'll be re-evaluated. Mr. Chairman. Having heard this morning's debate, I would like to explain, step by step, the issue of discretion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u33	This includes one other question. Does this mean that all families who have been expelled in recent days or a little longer ago are no longer covered by this scheme?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u34	No. Favourable policies include favourable measures at the time of their entry into force. That was also the case with all the favorable schemes in the past. I have heard from many previous speakers, including in the press this week, that there have been border crossings in every regulation. The cut's always somewhere. That is from the publication of the measures yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u35	Does the Secretary of State see what he's doing? Again, no one needs a residence permit from me, not the people who have gone and not the people who have stayed. But, in response to GroenLinks' colleague, do you see what you are doing now? You have people who may or may not have volunteered. Let's assume the people who volunteered. They got a no from the IND, went to court and accepted it. They have nicely, as it should be, whether or not they leave the Netherlands with the Service Return and Departure. And you have the people who didn't. They have raised a thick middle finger to the Dutch rule of law. They said, "I don't give a shit about Dutch judges. Fuck you, IND. And neither do I return." They're being rewarded now. Again, as far as I am concerned, neither group is rewarded. But isn't it hugely unfair that the people who have kept to the rules and gone back get absolutely nothing now and that the people who have trained the place are now rewarded with a residence permit? That is so unfair. You have to agree with me, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u36	Mr Wilders repeats in his own words what I myself have said in the past. At the same time, the reality is that we agreed yesterday that there will be a new assessment for the people involved. You can look at that in different ways. I see this in the context of the parties' desire to do so and in the context of the subsequent adoption of two measures which, I believe, will help to combat this type of problem in the future: the abolition of child welfare and the abolition of discretionary powers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u37	I understand you're not Prime Minister, but you do have your own opinion, don't you? You're not just a robot carrying out the policy, are you? And again, it's not just unfair, like I said. The people who have been rejected and re-evaluated are also people who have not cooperated. So this so-called "co-work criterion." Again, it's too crazy for words! They therefore deliberately did not cooperate, despite court rulings. And what does the government say? Well, then, let's get rid of the co-worker criterion. As a result, 80% or 90% will be eligible for a residence permit. And how unfair is it that people who have cooperated get nothing and are back in the country where they are? Again, as far as I'm concerned, that's fine, but it's about your optics now. And the people who have trained everything are not only told that we are not going to oppose them anymore, but we are going to give them a residence permit. That's unfair. You may say that three parties have agreed to do so, but you are the performer. You're not a robot, are you? So you can say: we think that is a bad arrangement, we should not do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u38	There were a lot of criteria in the scheme that are being tested. There are also a number that really remain in force. I note that the working criterion has been under discussion for years. That discussion is now settled. You can look at this in all kinds of ways, but I think it is a good thing that this chapter is closed, combined with the fact that there have been two measures which at least provide much more clarity for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u39	But, Mr President, I just get an answer like when I throw a quarter in somewhere; it just keeps coming out the same way. I ask him: what do you think of that? You say it's locked down. I ask you now: apart from being a Secretary of State, is there a person behind you; what do you think of people who have trained, being rewarded, and people who have kept to the rules and gone away just being completely unlucky? So it pays in the Netherlands not to follow the rules. That's not fair, is it? You do have an opinion on that, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u40	Oh, yeah, that opinion. Look, let me be clear: I also said last week for what reasons I wanted to stick to the existing regime. And there were many elements in it that Mr Wilders just said. At the same time, however, I have noted that this is no longer a sustainable position. And any arrangement... I mean, if you go back 10, 20, 30 years, you see that there have been numerous arrangements that, at some point, as Mr Wilders just said, had something unjust. In that case, a certain regulation will apply at the moment X, and that does not apply to people we had made a different decision about two, three or four years ago on the basis of the scheme. And yes, it would have been commendable if everyone had done so, but if such a decision were to be taken, I would have the touchstone that at least a few other measures will be taken that hopefully will help to counter the problem in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u41	Mr. Chairman. In fact, a bit at the point Mr Wilders was talking about, namely equality of law, but perhaps from the other side. In fact, there is another group: the group of children whose parents did not call on the children's pardon according to the old criteria, or not themselves, because they thought that they would not meet them, but that they do meet the new criteria that apply from today. What does the Secretary of State do with or for that group? Can they now also count on a review of their application for asylum?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u42	I have just indicated that the arrangement has been terminated. And how exactly that is embedded, I'm still considering it. I will come forward with further information in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u43	Okay, because that's important to that group, too. It is therefore conceivable that this will be a result of that, as the Secretary of State calls it, further elaboration of what has been agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u44	Much is conceivable, but I will wait until the moment when I have published my own decisions. A lot of questions have been asked about discretionary powers. Having seen this morning's debate, I would now like to try to clarify the point by point. The current discretionary power, as stated in the Aliens' Decree, is abolished. So it's not gonna exist anymore. Instead, there will be a jurisdiction that will be mandated by me at the head of the IND. It has been said here that in the end the State Secretary of State in the law is even our minister responsible, but that power is mandated at the head of the IND. Indeed, it is important to bring this part more into regular implementation rather than keeping it open for a politicised debate. It's important how that's gonna work later. If you enter the Netherlands and apply for a stay, the procedure starts with the application and, if you go to appeal or appeal, goes to a decision on appeal. During that procedure, the Head of the IND may consider whether there are individual distressing circumstances justifying residence if the conditions for existing restrictions or for asylum are not met. This actually goes all the way back to the year 2000, to the essence of what was intended at the time when the Aliens Act was being dealt with. The discretionary power wasn't in there at the time. It was said then that it may happen that a decision-maker from the IND who has listened properly and has to formulate a decision says: there may be a lot of things going on but I have no basis in the regulation to accept this request and on all sides it does not feel right because there are even more poignant circumstances. The intention was that such a person could then scale up within the IND, ending in a decision of the ruler, to grant someone permission. In this sense, it is also similar to what is happening now with a number of regular humanitarian grounds. It can therefore continue until the decision is taken on appeal. The way it is going to work in practice is the following. A member of the IND who has something like this at hand and does not think to come out of it, can then scale up and have a look at whether there is another ground. In practice, this will also be designed within the IND in such a way that a multidisciplinary team looks at it. This is happening now, though that multidisciplinary team is now composed of chain partners such as IND, DT&V, COA and AVIM. It is obvious that, for example, the DT&V will no longer have a role in it because the departure process has not yet started. This ultimately leads to a decision on the application: acceptance or rejection. That's the application procedure that's already going on anyway. There is therefore no need to make a separate application for this. Moreover, it is also expected that, as a rule, there will be only limited circumstances during the first procedure, since the person concerned is often only a short time in the Netherlands. Moreover, even now, it is being assessed in an asylum procedure whether the person concerned should be eligible for residence on certain regular grounds. Think of Article 8 ECHR and victims of trafficking in human beings. If this is already the case, a regular humanitarian permit will be granted. So that procedure already exists and is not new. If there is also no reason to allow residence due to unforeseen circumstances, this will be stated in the negative decision on the asylum or regular application. Whether that is justified can then be judged by the judge. As a result, poignant circumstances resulting from a negative appeal can no longer justify residence. An appeal to that effect can no longer be upheld. I believe that this will provide clarity, because this will remove the incentive to extend the stay or to lobby for a residence permit. A number of members have asked: what if during that extended stay conditions arise in the Netherlands which could be classified as poignant? First of all, the conclusion is that those circumstances arose at a time when you already knew that you did not have a lawful stay in the Netherlands. If there are any such circumstances, then there is always the possibility of a repeated application for residence, a repeated application for asylum. You can do that now. At the moment you feel that there are changing circumstances in your country of origin which would give you the right to asylum in the Netherlands, you can make a repeated application for it. It is being assessed and there is a possibility of appeal against it. It is also common for people to say: I have new medical conditions which should allow me to stay in the Netherlands. For this purpose, there is the regular medical application procedure, which ends in a consent or rejection. There is a right of appeal against this. Of course, I also see what happens often in practice, namely that people believe that there are medical reasons why they cannot go back and have to stay in the Netherlands. When the doctor says "I think you can go back," the IND follows that judgment and thus rejects the application. But people say, the doctor thinks I can go back, but I don't think I can go back. Such a situation will end in rejecting the application. Then you still have an appeal to the judge, but if the judge has given his judgment, you have to accept that. That puts an end to the situation that is now common, namely that people believe that there are things going on with them that they themselves qualify as poignant, but in which the harrowingness at the heart is only that people have been in the Netherlands for a long time and have not left the Netherlands before, when they knew they should. If there really is a reason, I shall mention a medical reason, but also a humanitarian reason, because there is also a basis in law for this, you can simply apply for it, but since that is the second or sometimes the third or fourth application, there is no longer the possibility that the head of the IND may weigh any other circumstances. That possibility is available only during the first application procedure, as long as it runs until the appeal decision. That is completely independent of discretionary power, because it simply is no longer there. An application ends in a judgment and the final judgment of the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u45	Before I allow any interruptions, I would like to know if this point has been completed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u46	Two more parts. There was a committee in the debate. There won't be a commission later. I intend to mandate the new authority to the head of the IND. It will not be the case in all applications that there are grounds at all for considering whether there are any other poignant circumstances. That begins primarily in the hearing with the person concerned himself. If that situation is going on and an opinion should be given, the head of the IND may ask for independent advice. To whom and what situation will depend. We have indicated that this can be done in situations with children, but it can also be a specific question. In the next few weeks, we are going to work out how that is going to take shape. But there won't be a commission. It is also not a fact that independent advice will be sought in all cases. That depends on the situation. It is all that is needed to get the head of the IND to decide whether there are circumstances other than those already put forward and which are grounded in the law. I think I have had the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u47	That raises a number of questions. Let me begin with the desire for depoliticisation. Mr Azmani said that and the Secretary of State used such a word. We're gonna put it next to the head of the IND. I wonder how that works in practice. We know that decisions of this kind sometimes lead to great social debate. I don't have to tell the Secretary of State; he knows that. As a Chamber, we would like to call someone to account for this. Then we'll get to this Secretary of State, won't we? That's not gonna help depoliticization, is it? This is very political.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u48	That is why I say that one person is politically responsible, that is the Secretary of State. That's me right now. That is always possible in the Chamber, although I would argue that, as in the past, we should not do so in individual cases. However, since it is such a logical part of the work done by the IND, we are talking about the first application in the Netherlands, and it also helps to judge that first application, it must be consenting or rejecting, in order to attach that power equally to the head of the IND. All, what is it, many tens of thousands of decisions taken a year are always taken on behalf of the Secretary of State and that is always done by the IND. So I do not see a particular category here that the politically responsible should look at separately. Like all other applications, this should simply go hand in hand with the work of the IND and I therefore find it only logical that where the powers for all other applications are mandated by the IND, this new power is also mandated at the head of the IND.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u49	The special feature of discretionary power, and the reason why a large part of the Chamber so attached it, was of course that in cases where the normal rules were actually laid down, the Secretary of State did not, in my opinion, give the answer or direction for the right decision, the politically responsible then, overlooking everything, could say: I do or do not touch my heart with my hand. Now it is going to be someone we do not know, who cannot be called to account, and who, according to objective criteria, has to make a decision on the basis of the official organisation. So that is contrary to what the discretionary power actually was, not on the basis of objective criteria but in a total weighting of all kinds of factors that we do not even know. So there's something wrong with that delegation at the head of the IND, I just want to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u50	No, I don't think so. For the most important thing in that decision, in that measure, is that it is limited in time. This limitation to the first procedure also creates a logic. It is taken into account in that procedure. If it is a negative decision, that negative decision shall state that it has been taken into account. And then, I think, there will be a very pure system, because appeal and appeal are open. I therefore believe that this is to be taken into account, in that place where it should be taken into account, namely in the course of justice. The current discretionary power is a completely different one. That is why I would like to point out that it is being abolished, because it can always be applied, not only in the first procedure, but throughout the entire duration of people being here in the Netherlands, which is very different by its very nature. Usually the attention of the Secretary of State is asked to look again at a case at a time that is much further in time and where very often a presentation of things is given, a very factual complex, which is then argued that it would be poignant, but where the essence of the poignantness is that especially for a very long time there has been stay in the Netherlands, when you knew that it could not be done anymore. So that will be reduced to real grounds in the Aliens' Decision and on which you can really apply, get an opinion and appeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u51	I conclude that the valve after the first appeal when it comes to making a discretionary request will soon be gone. At the same time, I sincerely ask the Secretary of State, through you, President: does he really believe that if there is a poignant matter in the future, one will not look at a Secretary of State or possibly a Minister responsible? Because in the end you also remain the boss of an instance like the IND.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u52	If people would do that, then I say: then the possibility of an application remains. There's plenty of land. I have just mentioned a few of them: medical, humanitarian, the innocence criterion. There are grounds for asking for a judgment on that basis: I ask for a judgment on that basis, but I finally accept what the judgment becomes, consent or rejection.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u53	Seriously, if we had laid down legislation on everything that might have been poignant in recent years, we would not have had a discussion for ten years. That is precisely the hallmark of distress: it is not fully understood by law or regulation. That's why you have the escape of such a unique authority. Again, does the Secretary of State really believe that, if there is a child in society that we all feel "this is a poignant situation," one will not look at the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u54	I'm starting one more step ahead of you. The fact that the power exists... I've noticed that myself for 15 months.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u55	I'm just asking for a yes or a no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u56	Mrs. Kuik, first the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u57	No, I'm asking the Secretary of State...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u58	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u59	But I keep not getting an answer to a very simple question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u60	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u61	Suppose people in the future system call attention to someone whose situation they consider to be poignant. The logic of the Foreigner's Law and the Foreigner's Decree is very clear: if you really think so, you will submit an application. There are reasons in the Aliens' decision. It could be medical. This is now often argued, but not always honoured. It could also be humanitarian. But that's the window where you need to be. I'm pretty sure that's how it's gonna work. There is now that discretionary power that many people do not really know what it is, but I do see what it does in practice, namely that a lot of people keep writing letters. Sometimes they don't even know about each other. Then you get a letter about one person from five different people. Every time, you look at the file. And every time, you come to the same judgment, because the file doesn't change. But every time a letter is sent, you give someone hope again: oh, there's someone else looking at it. I have literally seen and heard from predecessors that the simple fact that that power exists gives the impression that there is still some kind of judge in the final instance apart from the judge. It is not and it is never intended to be in the law. I don't think we should go through with that. Hence the measure to abolish that discretionary power.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u62	Those trials, that corridor to the judge, even if you've had an appeal, remain. Even then, pressure will continue. The Secretary of State may refer to an IND boss, but in the end that boss has a boss, and that's the Secretary of State. So I do not believe that this is going to work in really poignant situations. I think it's important to keep that valve open. I have another question. Do I understand correctly that it is a change to the Foreigner's decision not to make the Secretary of State responsible, but to make an official responsible for the discretionary power or the distress test, as it should be called today?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u63	It's falling apart in two. The abolition of discretionary power and the introduction of a new power is part of the adaptation of the Foreign Affairs Decision. Once that has been done, the mandate of this new power to the head of the IND is a mandate decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u64	Mrs. Chicken, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u65	How long is that gonna take? Is it correct that, because it is only a decision, it can be changed by motion again tomorrow, so to speak? It is not about legislation, it is about a simple decision. So that's easy to arrange.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u66	It will take a few months and requires advice from the Council of State, so it does not go by motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u67	I followed the Secretary of State's explanation. He says the head of IND can ask for advice. Didn't I read correctly in the letter that it's an independent advice? I'm gonna ask you this for the edge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u68	I used the words "independent advice." The Head of the IND may request independent advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u69	And what is the added value of this independent advice?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u70	If there is a question which is supposed to be given advice on it. Look, aspects can be put forward, and all this will have to be seen in the future, of which the IND says: we need advice on that. I'm just making a comparison. The moment someone makes a medical application, they ask for advice from the medical team. They're doctors, and they could be from outside the IND. It is obvious that the head IND itself is not a doctor and therefore cannot judge it. These may be issues of this kind, but it depends on what is being argued about circumstances and whether the IND itself is capable of doing so or whether it needs independent advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u71	But I don't think it adds that much. If I understand correctly, the IND will now be given the power to make a judgment. You can put it to the head of the IND and the IND can then ask for advice. He doesn't even have to do that, but he can do that. If advice is given, the IND can ignore it. But the IND remains ultimately responsible in the new model. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u72	That last one's right. Of course, we will dress up what such advisory powers look like and what role such advice has. I'm gonna work that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u73	But don't you run the risk that the IND gets a lot of decision-making power here and that it actually becomes a butcher who approves his own meat? If the IND makes a judgment, he may ask for an independent opinion, but we no longer have a Secretary of State with discretion. He wants to get rid of that. So the IND that becomes a kind of supreme in this event; he may ask for advice, but may also ignore it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u74	No, because the limitation lies in the fact that this is taken into account in the decision on the application and that an appeal and appeal are possible against that decision. That makes it pure, because all the questions put by Mr Van Dijk can therefore be taken into account on the basis of the decision. That is precisely what limits it in a very good way, namely where it belongs: in the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u75	All the way to the end. Then we come back to the point of who is ultimately responsible for the IND. It just passed by. The Secretary of State acknowledges that he is himself, but he mandates the IND to take those decisions from now on. I can imagine situations in which the House of Representatives, if there is much unrest about a poignant case, still calls on the Secretary of State to use his power and to decide on a case. Does he share that opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u76	Technically, it could. I am not afraid that this will happen because we are talking about the first application procedure in the Netherlands. There are tens of thousands of them per year, and I have not seen them get political attention before. We are talking about the situation that people are relatively short in the Netherlands and most of the issues you outline have occurred over the past twenty years when people have been in the Netherlands for a number of years and their first procedure has been far beyond.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u77	My question concerns what Mr Van Dijk brought about, namely the judicial review and the decision. What's the judge's actual assessment of? Normally, a judge checks on legislation. So what is the framework on which you test it independently?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u78	That is exactly what is included in the Foreign Affairs Decision when it comes to abolishing discretionary power and introducing that new power. By the way, that also applies at the moment. There are people who are calling attention to their cause and asking the ruler to take another look at it. This results in a judgment, but in addition to that, it is also possible for people to go to the IND's window and apply on the basis of the relevant article in the Aliens' Decision. And those people will also be given a decision that is open to appeal and appeal. Then it will be checked whether the IND has correctly established whether there were any other circumstances justifying such authorisation. So with that note, the test applies in the same way: it is checked which consideration the IND has made, whether someone has indicated that there are other reasons and what the IND's opinion is on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u79	These are grounds laid down in legislation and clearly defined. Schrijnendheid is by definition about something that is not completely fixed, where you have to read between the lines and then consider the context of things. We ask a judge to test that independently, but a judge must do so on something that we say to the judge: those are the grounds on which you assess whether that has been done in reasonableness and fairness. Is that gonna be recorded later? Is that going to be submitted to the Chamber? What are the grounds on which a decision is being examined?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u80	That starts with what someone themselves indicates in the procedure. I mean this. There's a hearing. They ask: on what grounds do you want to stay in the Netherlands? Someone's still pointing out that there might be other grounds. So the second procedure, which is a test or which justifies the other grounds, begins in parallel. That is included in the decision. Then it gets interesting. If someone still says that there is more to him, which is not taken well, then one goes on appeal and will be brought into the profession. In the end, it is the judge who asks both parties for the arguments. This will also lead to case law in the course of time. The most important thing is that it is in that first procedure, so that after the first procedure you fully know what is going on with someone and what judgment that has led to, more than at present.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u81	Last question, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u82	I'm rounding up. We still don't know what the IND director's role is going to be, how far his authority extends or whether the Secretary of State can give us another clue. A number of things need to be changed in the Aliens' Order. I hope, however, that the Secretary of State will undertake that amendments to the Aliens' Decision which are applied in all these grounds will be sent to the Chamber at an early stage, so that we can also have the opportunity and opportunity to debate them. Because it listens very closely and very precisely. As far as such a judge is concerned, I do not yet see it, and I want to be able to have a proper debate on this later in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u83	That wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u84	The provision will be a provision "other restrictions', as currently contained in Article 3.4, third paragraph of the Aliens' Decision. This has been saying for 20 years that there may be other restrictions. That will be the provision. I'm not making the commitment I'm asking for. I intend to submit it to the Council of State for its opinion and then submit it to the Council of Ministers. Mr. Chairman. Then there was the question: what about if you've gone through a procedure, and then you're converted or, for example, you're gay? This is, in turn, an independent ground for making a new application, which has been the special feature of the second application for a number of years, if you have not put it forward in the first application. But then it is a second application, in which therefore that special competence of the IND no longer applies. At the same time, you simply indicate in that hearing and in that application what is going on with you and the credibility of it. This leads to a decision, which is open to appeal. Mr President, all this is about discretionary power and its intentions. This at the same time affects the issue of speeding up procedures and processes; that is a bit of a bridge to the IND. It is not so much a question of shortening procedures, but of speeding up the flow of work around them, of logistics. I have already indicated recently, including in the budget debate, that the IND is struggling. It is not just because of the tight labour market; it affects all public authorities as well as the rest of businesses. Nevertheless, we managed to fill out the 200 additional vacancies last year. Those people are in training now. We have now opened up 150 vacancies, for which recruitment is now in full swing. So that's still going well. But it's still a concern. As a result, we also recently see that waiting times continue to increase. That's what we're trying to solve by hiring people. At the same time, there is the question of how flexible the IND is and how fast it can move with fluctuations in the inflow and outflow. In recent years, we have seen that these fluctuations are increasing. That always makes it difficult for the IND to have sufficient capacity in time. We have already had a debate on this during the budget debate and a motion by Mr Van Dijk or Mr Van Ojik or was on this subject together. Yes, Mr. Van Dijk, because he quoted it as well. We're working on that issue. Hence the commitment in this letter that, in the spring decision-making process, the cabinet looks in particular at this system and looks at how the IND can be structurally provided with a more stable financial basis. At present, the budget for the IND fluctuates with the expected inflow per year. We want to move towards a system where the IND can plan ahead and achieve more permanent occupancy, so that you can react much faster to situations with increased influx. This should become the most important solution to the waiting period problem at the IND. Mr Voordewind asked for priority, priority for dealing with families in the application procedures. Look, I'd like to give everyone a priority. There are two categories to which I attach great importance. The first category are safelanders, also because there is a relatively high level of nuisance. They have absolute priority to deal with the permit as quickly as possible, so that the departure process can start as soon as possible. That still works in two to three weeks. The second category is Dublin claimants, because there are fatal deadlines in the Dublin system for claiming and transferring to another country in the EU. Around this I would like to see the waiting times for everyone reduced, especially for families with children. Of course, it remains a difficult consideration to say: a family with children takes precedence over someone who comes only to the Netherlands, but whose family is elsewhere in the world and has to wait for the application before the departure can begin. That seems like a very difficult weighing. I prefer to do it as a whole by addressing the structural problem at the IND further. I would also like to say straight away that I have often given this warning that this problem has not been solved overnight, even if only because the people who were adopted last year, last autumn, are virtually all still in their training and that it takes six to nine months to be able to handle all the applications. Those people are still being fully trained and that capacity is not yet fully available.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u85	I want the topic IND to be completed first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u86	There's one more question to answer from the IND. A sum of EUR 13 million was already circulating in the debate. That is not in my letter, nor is it the amount requested to put the IND in structural order. This is a first gross estimate of the costs of completing the child's pardon and re-evaluations, but it has not yet been validated or anything like that and it would be one-off.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u87	Did you answer all questions about the IND with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u88	I've got one more block, and that's resettlement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u89	Okay, then there are questions about the IND. Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u90	You might not think so, but I'm a very optimistic person. Only, the Secretary of State has been working for a year now and the procedure times of the IND have actually only risen. I know there are a number of reasons for this, but I am not so optimistic that he is going to achieve his goals, despite the extra money and despite the people who are being trained. What firm guarantees do we have and what do we do when we fail to deliver on these promises in time? This means something for the people who are now in their asylum applications.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u91	This policy area is never of the tough guarantees. In this case, I just gave two disclaimers. One is that funding needs to be further developed. The cabinet considers this issue in the spring note. It is not the urgent issue for now either, because money is available for the current vacancies. It has to do with one thing and that is the recruitment of the people for the open vacancies. For the 200 of the last six months, that has already been achieved. Those people are in training. For the 150, the recruitment is now in progress. The moment those people are inside, the training starts right away. That means, if you have to make a preview, that from this summer onwards the first 200 will be fully usable and can contribute to limiting the waiting lists. So it has already been decided that it is not going to be possible to solve it completely this year. Because the people who are recruited this year will, so to speak, only be fully employable in a year's time. But we are working with men and the most important thing is that we are building an organisation that also knows for a long time what it is financially capable of, so that there will be a much more stable occupation. This is an issue that must be resolved again this year. For the rest, of course, it fluctuates with the influx. I wish I could find out who's coming in in August. That's the problem every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u92	We've had that debate before, so I'm not going back there. The point remains, however, that strong guarantees have been given with this deal that the lead times also go back. That's important if you want to keep your own appointments. My question is then very specific when the Secretary of State comes back to us to tell us what is going on with these ambitions and the reduction of the length of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u93	That's not at one time. First of all, I included one sentence in yesterday's letter, which is that the issue of the stable financing of the IND, as we also discussed in the budget, will be examined by the Cabinet in spring paper. A decision will then be taken. I'll have to wait and see. This means that we will have a debate afterwards on how this goes forward. I am not going to give guarantees on the impossible, but I am saying that the concern is fully shared by the cabinet and that we are working on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u94	Yes. Then Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u95	I understand what the Secretary of State says about the prioritisation of families. You can't set ten priorities, because then you're out of priorities. At the same time, we have talked about closing the children's pardon, where we all have the interest of not going beyond those five years. My question to the Secretary of State is whether he would like to look at it, perhaps in the further development of the plans, whether it is possible anywhere. I know that there are limitations to the capacity of the IND, but in that respect, as a Christian Union, we are prepared to look at the spring note when we can make a prioritisation for those families, or extra money is possible. But does he still want to take another look at this prioritization in the development of these plans?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u96	I have just indicated that, of course, it is very obvious. We make all these plans precisely to reduce waiting times in full width, including for families with children. What I must say is that there is now an image as if every procedure takes many years. That is simply not the case. It's two and up to three years, if there's a lot going on and it goes all the way to appeal. That's already exceptional. The picture is that it's all dragging on for years, but that's just not going to happen. What is very common is that after a first application a second, third, fourth and fifth applications are made. That's where we're trying to get the incentive to keep going down a little bit. We are doing this precisely because everyone, especially families with children, will benefit from much more clarity in the future. That is the clarity we want at least after the first procedure in the court's ruling. That should be the signal for many people in the future that continued stay in the Netherlands is no longer there. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the issue of resettlement. In the debate, a number of the parties who spoke about this at the formation gave their full picture. The number of people relocating has been 500 for many years. I don't remember having very big debates about that in the Chamber, but I wasn't always there. I see Mr Van Ojik nodding. This has been increased from 500 to 750 in the coalition agreement, and for me there is a logical link with other provisions in the coalition agreement which also place that mark on the horizon that the influx into Europe should be much lower. At present, this influx is decreasing, but in particular in North-West Europe, the Benelux countries, Scandinavia and Germany, this is not yet the case. That is where I find a logical coherence. If the policy is based on providing security and shelter for refugees, we will of course do so in the first place because there are many refugees here in the Netherlands who, if they are refugees, receive asylum. Then we will do so, and this cabinet is committed to doing so, by better supporting those refugees who are being received in the region. Mr Kaag, Minister for BH-OS, has allocated a great deal of additional resources, for example, to improve facilities in refugee camps in Lebanon and Jordan, including for the people of those countries, who offer hospitality to refugees. Above that there is also the possibility to resettle a number of vulnerable refugees in the Netherlands at the request of the UNHCR. But there is a connection with the principle that you do this more as the regular influx in the Netherlands goes down. Because of this balance, but also because I heard Mr Voordewind say that; I was not at the formation because of the consistency with which measures everyone had in the coalition agreement, it was then decided to go from 500 to 750 and the parties have now decided to go from 750 to 500 again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u97	I actually want you to...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u98	That's the last of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u99	Then you're done?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u100	Then I have one more...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u101	Then I'd do the same for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u102	A number of members have asked about the co-operation with the work of the Van Zwol Committee. Of course, the Van Zwol Committee has a very broad remit: to examine all aspects that encourage long-term stays and make recommendations on them. The two measures taken yesterday relate to this and aim to prevent long-term stays, but I have the impression that the Van Zwol Committee is examining all aspects in full. There's still a lot to investigate. However, I have informed the committee of the measures that have now been taken. For the rest, the mandate of the Van Zwol Committee remains unchanged. The timetable also: the committee is still planning to produce the report and recommendations by 15 June. There will then be a cabinet reaction and the Chamber will undoubtedly want to discuss this with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u103	Did you answer all the questions with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u104	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u105	Then I will go to Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u106	I think the extension of the children's pardon is a good thing. I think the price for this, reducing the number of people for resettlement, is high. That's some kind of cow business. But the Secretary of State has already referred to it: we also had the agreement that at the time the irregular influx of migrants would decrease, the number of people to be resettled could increase. Can I assume that the agreement will stand and that the number of people to be re-established could still increase?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u107	Then it's under the assumption that the other influx is decreasing, and he's not doing that right now. Not last year; he was at the level of 2017. And in 2017 he was at the level of 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u108	But the number of 750 is now being reduced to 500. When we find that the irregular influx is decreasing, this cabinet would be prepared to increase that number of 500. Is that how I'm supposed to understand it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u109	There is another coincidence in the coalition agreement, namely that Europe is taking measures to counter the influx at the external borders. I would like nothing more than that the agreements reached on this matter in June of last year had entered into force, but the reality is, and Mr Van Dijk knows that this is still far behind the horizon. The parallel with the increase in resettlement has to do with this and that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u110	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u111	Well, then, rounding it up. I asked one more question about the arrangements made. We had a two-page letter on that. The Secretary of State has given an explanation. My question is: have we been given all the agreements as a Chamber or have we not yet been mentioned?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u112	No. Four agreements have been made: re-evaluation, abolition of child pardon, abolition of discretionary power and transformation of the head of the IND, and the fourth is resettlement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u113	All clear, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u114	You also have a second term. Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u115	The Secretary of State rightly says to Mr Van Dijk: this is not really about the European resettlement arrangements but about something we have been doing for a very long time. It is actually the humanitarian part of our refugee policy, in which we say: of the most vulnerable of those 65 million refugees, a small proportion may be invited to the Netherlands. Now the argument to reduce that from 750 to 500 is "the balance in the coalition agreement," I quote the Secretary of State. Isn't it a bit cynical, or what you want to call it, to reverse that very little humanitarian part of our asylum policy because of the balance in the coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u116	Then I will look at what has already been said in the debate on the talks on the coalition agreement. I wasn't there on this subject. But it may have been said back then that there were parties who wanted a children's pardon, which didn't happen. When that did not happen, they said: we want an increase in the resettlement quota. Then it is obvious to me that if you now re-evaluate the children's pardon, you will also restore that part of the coalition agreement as it was in the last five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u117	Why? Why is that obvious for those people who thought they might already be selected in consultation with UNHCR? What do they have to do with the balance in our coalition agreement? I really don't understand how you can explain this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u118	The image that people would be waiting for is not going to happen. As a country, you know how many people you're going to resettle. By the way, as the Netherlands, we also participate well in the programmes with 500. You cannot say that about every country that is a member of the UN. So the Netherlands will always take on its role in this. But we have said that we are just doing it at the level we have been doing for years, namely 500 very vulnerable people. There is, of course, a broader story behind this, which is also indicated by several members of the Chamber. You always look at the tension, the support in society. We cannot infinitely offer everyone a home in the Netherlands. Within the whole we have looked at it and then it is obvious to continue to do so, the 500 that the Netherlands has been relocating for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u119	Finally, Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u120	I am not going to tell the Secretary of State again what I said to Mr Azmani. There's no one here who's gonna argue for anyone to record infinitely. We are talking about very modest numbers, of which we have now deducted a third. Finally, one question. I assume that agreement was reached with the UN Refugee Organisation on the 750, because they are implementing that programme for the Netherlands. Have they been officially informed by the Cabinet that we are not going to honour that agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u121	It doesn't work that we specify numbers by default, so that they know how much the Netherlands does until 2021. It works the other way around. UNHCR regularly opens resettlement missions to which Member States can subscribe. That goes on all year round. So we will either sign up less on a few resettlement missions or reschedule a little fewer people per mission. That's just gonna go on all year. That, for example, is the reason that last year the number of 750 was not completed. This was due to the fact that two planned missions were cancelled and this was due to the fact that UNHCR could not select candidates for resettlement in the countries concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u122	About the Van Zwol committee. There are different measures now than before. The committee has been instructed to review everything and everything. I think I asked the question in the first instance: are these measures also being submitted to the committee with the request to reflect on their feasibility and feasibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u123	I do not need to amend the mandate to the Van Zwol committee, because the mission is that the committee can look at all aspects, so that is already the broadest possible task. In anticipation of the publication of these measures, I informed Mr Van Zwol about the measures we have taken. The committee is also completely independent and can therefore involve all information in its work. I leave it to the committee to decide whether or not to do so on the basis of the measures that have now been taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u124	May I put the question in this way: do you see any added value in it and do you think it would be appropriate for the committee to include these measures in its work?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u125	I think it is desirable that the committee should simply deliver an opinion on all aspects relating to long-term stays in the Netherlands. Since that is already the broadest possible task I have given, I would like the committee to do its work independently. So if Mr Bishop's question is whether I would like to conclude that I am asking the committee to look at these measures as well, then my answer would be 'no', because I leave it entirely to the wisdom of the committee to form a fully independent opinion on any aspect of long-term residence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u126	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u127	It is also to be appreciated that the committee should be completely independent in its work, but I can imagine, quite simply, that as a ruler you would say: yes, I would appreciate it if the committee would also include this. That doesn't seem like an influence, but just...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u128	I also have no reason to believe that I should ask the committee to look at more cases. The committee is composed of very capable members, and I think they are very capable of expressing an opinion on any aspect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u129	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u130	Thank you very much, Mr President. I told you, it's a left-wing party today, a left-wing VVD party. People all over the world see that people like Mr. Harbers, Mr. Rutte and Mr. Dijkhoff have a backbone of whipped cream, that they bow, that they allow people, that they give the signal of "come to the Netherlands and if you don't abide by our rules, if you put a court ruling next to you, if you don't cooperate with your expulsion, you can stay, you will be rewarded." Bad behavior is rewarded. If a Dutchman fails to comply with the law or if a Dutchman fails to comply with a court ruling, the police come to arrest him. Whoever gets a fine, jail time, you name it. If an illegal person comes here and ignores a court order, then the one who is now rewarded with a residence permit by this cabinet, under the direction of this Secretary of State. That's a signal we can't accept with each other. That is a signal that will eventually destroy the Netherlands. That, as I said in an interrupting debate, is also very unfair to all those asylum seekers who have returned. You're coming to Holland. The judge says you can't stay. You're appealing. The judge says again that you can't stay and you go back to your own country nicely. The people who have done so, who have complied with the rules, are taking full advantage of this measure. I wouldn't have it any other way either, but I say it again to show the dishonesty. The people who do not respect the law and the judgment are rewarded by this cabinet. It couldn't be more unfair. Bad for the Netherlands. I can't believe that the VVD, the party that says it wants to limit immigration, which is responsible for 400,000 non-Western immigrants, has added a city like Utrecht in the Netherlands over the last five years and which has signed the Marrakesh Treaty, is now simply signing a wider pardon. That cannot be done, it is unacceptable, and that also means that my group will give up confidence in the cabinet. That's what we'll do with the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Cabinet rewards illegality by extending the pardon scheme;]] [[whereas this is unacceptable;]] [[declares confidence in the cabinet,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2461]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Secretary of State for replying. As I said in my first term: yesterday the deal came; quartets with Dijkhoff, Buma, Segers and Jetten. The discretion had to be exercised. That's not entirely clear to me. I've heard three different explanations. That of Mr Groothuizen of D66 was very different from that of Mr Azmani, so it is not quite clear to me. I am therefore waiting to see what the Secretary of State's letter will yield and what it will really look like in practice. Mr. Chairman. Quartets, the four of the men did that. Quartets with children, with the children's pardon. At least today, the coalition decided to stick each other as many feathers as possible in the appropriate place. It is extremely interesting to see how each coalition party explains that deal to its own success. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Cabinet intends to reduce the Dutch resettlement quota at UNHCR from 750 to 500;]] [[considers that this is unjust and not solidarity;]] [[points out that the Dutch resettlement quota should continue to be 750 at UNHCR,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet intends to abolish the children's pardon in the long term, or indeed immediately;]] [[considers that this is unjust and not solidarity;]] [[declares that the children's pardon should not be abolished,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2462]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2463]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u133	Thank you, Mr. Azarkan. Then I will go to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for the clear answer to the questions, because I think I understand the situation and what has been agreed and partly why. In part, I'm happy with those appointments. I said the same thing in my first term. We shouldn't forget that. We have now had a very long debate in which the positive side may have gotten a bit in the background, but I would like to say again that I still feel the joy I had at the beginning of the debate about what was agreed for those children. However, on two points my group has real problems with the substance of what has been agreed. Firstly, it has gradually become clear to the debate that the discretionary power, especially later in the asylum procedure, could be about rooting, for example; this could in itself be a basis for obtaining asylum, which is no longer included in the new agreement. That is my firm impression. That is why, together with Mrs Kuik of the Labour Party, I will table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas distress in individual cases may arise at all stages of residence procedures;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that at all times in the residence procedure there is the possibility of having a distress test carried out,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Ojik and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2464]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u135	Madam President. You will not be surprised that my second motion concerns the reduction of resettlement by one third, from 750 to 500 people, and the question of what we could do about it, taking into account what has now been agreed by the four parties. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Government intends to reduce the Dutch participation in the resettlement of vulnerable refugees from the region through the UNHCR by 250 persons;]] [[calls on the Government to consult UNHCR on a proportionate contribution by the Netherlands to the worldwide reception of vulnerable refugees, and to inform the Chamber of the outcome,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2465]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u136	Mr. Chairman. I have three responses to the new package of measures. One: it's great news for the children who still have to stay in the Netherlands. Two: it's bad news for resettlement. And three: there are questions about discretion. A mixed image, but happiness prevails for the children who are no longer in uncertainty. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the treatment of the measures. As far as the SP is concerned, they should not be passed through the back door. They must be dealt with through a proper debate here in the Lower House. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that much detail on the re-evaluation and termination of the current system of long-term children (children's pardon) and the abolition of the current discretion is not yet clear;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber of the new proposals so that a substantive debate can take place,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2466]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u137	Mr. Chairman. First of all, good luck to all children who now know for sure that they will be allowed to stay in the Netherlands. I hope that it will succeed soon and that it will also work in a way that will make us happy. Compliments to everyone who made that possible. For me, a number of questions remain. They're about the heaviness test and discretion. I also said it's an illusion to think: I'm putting it away from an IND official and I'm not going over it anymore. In fact, the Secretary of State holds the power of appointment, the social pressure comes back when there really is a difficult, urgent situation of distress, and it is an alien decision, which means that if anything changes in this house, such a decision can be given another basis. In that sense, I will be tabling a motion later. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to support Mr Van Dijk's request. I think it is a bit of a bummer to say that the Council of State is allowed to give advice, and the Chamber is not about it anymore. We've been talking about the Aliens' Order here since Job Cohen. We regularly talk about how to implement just asylum and residence grounds, especially for children, because that is so very important and because they are so vulnerable and so dependent on their parents. So listen to that request. Involve us as a chamber in this decision, also because you don't know what the future holds. Even then, as a Chamber, you will have to work together again. Mr President, the next motion is because I believe in that responsibility of the Secretary of State. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Secretary of State for Justice and Security is and will remain responsible for the implementation of foreign policy;]] [[Whereas, even after the Director of the IND has delivered his opinion, a situation of distress can be raised at a later stage of the procedure;]] [[Considering that the abolition of the children's pardon does not mean that there will never be any chance of dealing with children rooted here and/or other individual cases in the future;]] [[points out that in the future there will continue to be scope to implement the law in such a way that, in the case of individual cases, there is a poignant situation which prevents expulsion from being dealt with, a decision to expel can be reversed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Kuik, Mr Van Ojik and Mr Akerboom. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2467]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thanks to the Secretary of State for the comprehensive reply. A lot has become clear in the debate today. There is still no answer to all the questions and I am very much looking forward to the further development and how things are going to look in practice. The Party for Animals still has great concerns about the discretionary power and the heaviness test. Of course, we are very happy for the children who will be allowed to stay. I don't have any motions of my own today. I have submitted the motion of the PvdA and I have already heard some good proposals from colleagues, some of which we will certainly support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u139	Thank you, Mrs Akerboom. Finally, Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP. Thank you very much, Mrs Akerboom.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u140	Mr President, I will continue to serve Mrs Akerboom. We, too, come up with a proposal. She will undoubtedly be able to embrace that; we look forward to her support. Thank you to the Secretary of State for replying. I thought it was a bit shaky here and there, but perhaps that was also due to the nature of the debate. Unfortunately, some of the doubts that we in the SGP Group had have not been removed. With regard to discretionary powers in relation to harrowingness, we are not reassured that the matter is closed. We also have serious doubts about the transfer of discretionary powers to an official. I did not appoint this in the first term, but I would like to point out, like one of my colleagues, that I find it a little harsh that this operation is now being launched, which leads to 700 residence permits for a group which is not actually entitled to them, which has been the starting point for all these years, while 250 refugees who would be entitled to them are already being excluded in advance. That's a move we can't quite follow. Then a motion to supplement the investigation of the Van Zwol Committee. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that in recent decades arrangements have been made for foreigners who, despite a rejection of an application for admission and the resulting obligation to leave, often resided in the Netherlands for a long time;]] [[noting that it was always expected that, with the structural measures taken, in future hardly any more situations would arise for long-term foreigners residing in the Netherlands without a residence permit;]] [[Whereas this expectation has not been fulfilled over and over again;]] [[Notes that a parliamentary inquiry into immigration and return policies should be carried out, in particular with regard to the long-term residence of foreigners without a permanent right of residence and calls on the Bureau to organise this parliamentary inquiry,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop and Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2468]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u141	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u142	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. I'm looking at the Secretary of State. Two minutes? You want five minutes. I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u143	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u144	Thank you, Mr President. A number of motions have been tabled. The motions in part No. 2461 and 2468 are addressed to the Chamber. It's not for me to judge. The motion in part No. 2462 by Mr Azarkan, with reference to everything I said in the first term. Also the motion in part No. 2463 by Mr Azarkan I advise. That's exactly the same thing. We have discussed this at length. It is clear that I am of a different opinion. The motion in part No. 2464 by Mr Van Ojik and Mrs Kuik I also advise against, because I want to avoid this kind of hope remaining in the procedure. I have also put forward my arguments on this issue in the first term. The motion in part No. I also advise 2465 by Mr Van Ojik. The government is very often in contact with the UNHCR on many aspects of the refugee problem. This applies not only to the ministry of JenV, but also, for example, to foreign affairs and to foreign trade and development cooperation. In my view, therefore, there is no added value in having this discussion. There is already a great deal of consultation going on. The Netherlands is really doing its best on a global scale with regard to refugees all over the world. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to the motion in part No. 2466 by Mr Jasper van Dijk. I follow the formal procedure in adjusting the Aliens' Order and the Aliens' Circular. I am prepared to send the final transitional arrangement to the Chamber as soon as it is adopted. By the way, I don't recommend the motion. The motion in part No. 2467 by Mrs Keiken c.s. I don't recommend it. In essence, this actually says again that there is still some sort of hope in the system, the hope that something new is always possible. I'd like to avoid that. Mr President, that brings me to the end of my assessment of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u145	Thank you. That is what brought us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u146	A motion of censure has been tabled by Mr Wilders. It is customary to vote on the same day. I propose that the sitting be suspended for ten minutes, after which we shall vote on the motion of censure.
