ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u1	We will now go to Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the PvdA, for her question about the report that two thirds of the doctors' assistants are facing violence. The question is addressed to the Minister for Medical Care, whom I would like to welcome. Mrs. Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two-thirds of the doctors' assistants are dealing with intimidation, threats and violence. Of course, that's terrible. Doctor's assistants are committed to ensuring that we receive proper care from the general practitioner and they are indispensable in any general practitioner's practice. They deserve our respect and our appreciation, not our threat and intimidation. They must be protected from threats and intimidation, and that is why I have a number of questions for the Minister. First of all... A colleague of Minister Bruins, Minister Dekker, said this morning that he is making a bill to punish violence against aid workers more specifically and more strictly. Is this also going to apply to violence against doctors' assistants? Then there's my second question. Doctor's assistants report that they find it difficult to file a report because then all of their data becomes public. So also the one who threatens them can access personal data. That's a huge threshold. What does the Minister intend to do to increase the willingness to report to the doctor's assistant? In addition, my third question. Is the Minister prepared to set up a hotline where doctors can report when they have had to deal with intimidation and violence? Of course there must also be a report, but apparently that is a threshold. And then a hotline can help to get a clear picture of the problem, so that something can be done about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, Mr Dekker's proposal this morning also applies to aggression against doctors' assistants. I fully agree with Mrs Ploumen that it is unacceptable for people performing a public task to be approached aggressively in one way or another. It can't be. Hands off our people who perform public duties. So I can answer Mrs Ploumen's first question in the affirmative: always jail time for hitting an aid worker. So if that paramedic is a doctor's assistant, jail time. Then the point of the declaration. After reading the survey of the professional association of doctors' assistants, I found that the willingness to report remains low. I also agreed with the association that we're having a further conversation. I didn't do that this afternoon, but yesterday when I saw the results of the survey. I actually also need to speak to the National General Medical Association. General practitioners are the employer of doctors' assistants. The declaration will therefore have to be increased. At the moment, however, it is left behind. Unfortunately, this is not only the case with doctors' assistants. I will discuss that point, and also the point of the hotline, with the professional association of doctors' assistants. I understand from the first contact we had that they want to focus on the "hands off" aspect, in the sense of: aggression is terrible and you should not be with us for that. The general practitioners and medical assistants are there to provide good care but of course there is a limit to it. You can't be aggressive with the doctor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u5	Glad to hear that the Minister is taking this seriously and that he is taking action. I assume that we will hear more specifically about the measures that result from this. I have two additional questions. Your colleague, Minister Dekker, has also indicated that additional research is being carried out by the WODC into practice and case law. I'm assuming this applies to the doctors' assistants, too. While I'm standing here, the doctors' assistants have a huge need for formal recognition of their profession. Anyone, the minister, you and I, can call themselves a doctor's assistant. That can't be true at this time, can it? I would therefore like to reiterate my support for this Minister to initiate the formal recognition of the profession of medical assistant, in accordance with Article 34 of the BIG Act. Then we know exactly what we're talking about. That would please me very much, and it would be particularly good for the doctors' assistants.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u6	While you're standing here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u7	Exactly!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u8	They're questions that don't have anything to do with the cause, but that's the way it goes sometimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u9	Doctor's assistants should be allowed to do that, Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u10	I will check with my colleague, Mr Dekker, whether the additional research is also aimed at the doctors' assistants, or whether it is otherwise appropriate. And while I'm standing here, I'm gonna start talking to the doctors' assistants, and I'm gonna make this topic the subject of that conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u11	We're getting along again! Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u12	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. I now give the floor to Mr De Lange on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u13	Doctors must always be able to work safely. Shouting, spitting, kicking and hitting are clearly not part of this. Let that be perfectly clear. I do have a question for the Minister. Is the Minister prepared, together with Justice and Security, to identify whether there are any legal or other obstacles that can always hinder the safe operation of our doers in the care sector, to resolve this and to discuss this with the profession?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u14	That is a lot in one sentence, Mr President!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u15	Yeah, but in 30 seconds. I think that's good, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u16	The answer can also be given in thirty seconds, because that is affirmative. I would like to see if there are any gaps in the legal instruments. Based on that, we can see what it takes. And I think that sometimes we should have the conversation here in this Chamber when there's a need for a law change. But I'd like to go far in this. The point is, don't touch our hard workers in the public service.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u17	Then I will go to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u18	It's a shame how many paramedics can't do their job safely. From these figures, that has come out hard again. The Minister also states that he wants to make more work on notifications and declarations. My question is: if it is too big a threshold to report incidents that may sometimes be too light in themselves for reports, will he then keep his finger on the wrist and promote a close eye on how this is going to develop, so that we know what is going on?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u19	Yes, we had long before this survey led to a result plan to have a "administrative work session," as it is called in the jargon, with all the different concerns about the working environment of employees. Then it is also about employees in the ggz. It's also about disability care and ambulance care. It's also about the doctor's assistant. And the working environment is also about aggression against employees. That session is scheduled for mid-April. I would like to inform your Chamber of this, as proof that this should not just remain so in an afternoon with oral questions. It is a very important theme, so I am going to offer you a form of a report of that session to ensure that this remains an appropriate theme.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u20	Everyone hates the fact that people in the care sector have to go through this. But my question to the Minister is: will he also speak with the medical assistants themselves? 'Cause he says he's gonna talk to the GPs. Those are the employers. But in my opinion, he should also have a conversation with the people himself. Please talk to the people themselves! And can he, in anticipation of the fact that he's still figuring all sorts of things out, ensure that people can report to the police anonymously? This is already possible in the field of youth care. Why shouldn't doctors be able to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u21	I thought I had just answered that I am not only talking to the National Family Doctors Association, but also to the Dutch Association of Doctors Assistants. I promised them that yesterday. I'll have that conversation, too. And with the LHV that are often the employers I will discuss what more is needed to ensure that that willingness to report goes up. And can it be filed on behalf of someone who is aggressively treated, also strengthened and improved? What's it gonna take? I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u22	And you'll inform the Chamber about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u23	I think that would be a good idea, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u24	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u25	You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u26	That brings us to the end of this Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. Then we will first swear Mr Geleijne on behalf of 50PLUS and then we will have votes. For now, I'm gonna suspend the meeting.
