ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u1	Once everyone has taken up their positions, we can start discussing the defence budget. A warm welcome to the Minister and Secretary of State for Defence. We might have started later today, but in the previous debate, Minister Grapperhaus disappeared to deal with the situation at Schiphol. The result was that we could start a little earlier. The Minister and the Secretary of State have come here running. This also applies to other participants in the debate. Not even everyone's here yet, but I'm glad we can get started. Yesterday, we had the Minister as a guest for a wide-ranging debate. After midnight, we ended that. It is my intention not to repeat this tonight, but that is in your hands in terms of the number of interruptions and speaking time, Mr De Roon. So if we can just do this short and pointy, then tomorrow we can listen to the answers of the rulers. The answer is already at 10.15 a.m. tomorrow morning. A number of officials will therefore have a short night's sleep, I'm afraid. DOD, you stand up to it and you sleep with it, I'd almost say. But tomorrow at 10.15 a.m. we're going to listen to the answers of the rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u2	May I give the floor to the first speaker on the side of the Chamber? That is Mr De Roon of the Group of the Party for Freedom. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u3	Mr. Chairman. Tonight we will discuss the budget of the Ministry of Defence for the year 2020. In this budget debate, I am replacing the Minister for Defence of the PVV, Mrs Popken, who has been prevented by illness. In this contribution, I will, after a brief introduction, discuss the issues of staff shortages, new material and impact. After that, I will pay attention to matters of a personal nature. But I'll start with an introduction. Mr. Chairman. Little by little, money has been added to the Defence budget in recent years, but gaps are not filled. Deficiencies persist and crucial choices are still being postponed. In that respect, our defence device looks powerless, as if there is no clear vision. The result is that it seems that Defence is only able to carry out relief missions, such as those in countries like Afghanistan and perhaps later Mali. While our borders are now wide open to migrants and returning IS fighters, our Marechauses train their fellow border guards in Niger. I would like to see our borders closed again and the Royal Marechaussee given the opportunity to adequately guard those borders. When our armed forces had to scrape the ammunition around a few years ago, thanks to the Rutte I and II Cabinets, tens of millions of euros of equipment went to Islamic fighting groups in Syria. That's outrageous. But no more rooster crows, because this policy has become commonplace. These are policy choices that, over and over again, are detrimental to the Dutch interest. Tonight, I will highlight a number of issues in the hope that the tide will return, that our armed forces will regain their colour and that soldiers will be able to be military again and not disguised Red Cross workers. I'll start with the issue of staff shortages. Defense has been facing serious staff shortages for years. This cabinet, too, is unable to put an end to this. There are thousands of vacancies open, according to the Commander of the Armed Forces about 8,300. This is an understaffing which is disastrous: damaging to the apparatus and damaging to the stamina of the remaining staff. Trade unions and interest groups now want Defence to recruit staff abroad, outside the European Union. The PVV thinks that's a horse drug. As far as we are concerned, we do not do so and we do not turn our armed forces into a foreign legion. With attracting Africans or Asians, you may partially solve the staff shortage, but you will also raise new problems. Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, the Dutch nationality is a legal requirement for joining the armed forces. For now, I'm just saying. Can the Minister assure us that this condition will remain in concrete? This is an essential element of the PVV for the survival of our national armed forces. I expect a response from the Minister on this point. Mr. Chairman. There is an urgent shortage of particularly high-quality technical personnel in the Defense Department. In order to overcome this deficit, more intensive cooperation with industry is being considered. The Commander of the Armed Forces has indicated that there are some 50 companies talking to see if staff can be shared. What can the Minister tell us about the state of affairs of all this talk? What's it gotten you? In principle, the PVV sees this as a possible solution for part of the staff shortage. Form a golden combination with business and, if necessary, I say to the Minister: if necessary, invest money and resources. To what extent does the Minister intend to do that? Mr. Chairman. I would like to comment on the image of the armed forces: unfortunately, not in such a way that applicants are insisting at the gate. Therefore, make Defense attractive again by purchasing modern and safe equipment. Work must be done on the appearance of the armed forces. It must be attractive for young men and women to work there. This also means that we must be cautious in participating in missions abroad. Our military are not Red Cross personnel in uniforms. Ultimately, it is a question of the defence of a force capable of defending the interests of the Netherlands, if necessary in the highest spectrum of violence. Put that explicitly in the imagery, because that is the honest story. Make the DOD more attractive that way, too. That brings me to the next issue, although it all depends on it: the new material. For years there have been discussions on the replacement of submarines and on new frigates. There is talk, but the cutting of knots is extremely difficult. The decision on the replacement of the submarines would only fall at the end of 2018 and then spring 2019. Meanwhile the leaves fall off the trees again and the end of 2019 is almost in sight, and we still don't have a letter. I ask the Minister: where is this process now going? It's the toughest weapon of our military: a submarine can take out an aircraft carrier. Then why isn't political leadership more decisive? We have Dutch builders, there is money again and there is the need for replacement. What's with the dawdling? The PVV wants the Minister's clarity this week. When's the B letter coming? As far as we're concerned next Friday. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the subject of impact, because that too is an aspect that needs to be highlighted more clearly in the imagery of the Defense Department. Defense is just a violent device. We must therefore ensure that the armed forces have the power to act, not tomorrow, but already today. For example, in order to increase the impact force, we can think of cruising rockets or cruising weapons, as they are also called by the experts. The PVV has already argued for a feasibility study on cruise missiles aboard our new frigates. A motion of my hand on these precision weapons was also adopted by the Chamber. But there is still no response from the government to that motion. The motion and the investigation that the government has promised will just stay in the air. We've been three years. Three years! We sometimes want an answer, precisely because these measures are crucial for our Navy and its impact. I ask the Minister whether we simply want to deliver aid packages in the aftermath of a hurricane or whether we also want to be able to carry out precision attacks in order to eliminate cloning of terrorist leader Al-Baghdadi................................................................................................................................................................................. The Netherlands has the F-35 since last week. It's official, isn't it? 'Cause he's actually in the Air Force right now. The PVV continues to question the maintenance costs, the quality and the necessity, but he is there. And all that aside, of course, we wish the kites who have to work with it all the success. The flight fleet is further strengthened with the amazing and proven MQ-9 Reaperdrones. With four of them, we're going to strengthen our air force. The PVV is a bit more enthusiastic about this acquisition. That's why I'm asking the Minister when we can expect the drones on Leeuwarden's home base. Summer 2020 was the previously awakened expectation, but I ask the Minister whether this can be achieved. Flyers and sensor operators are ready, but are these things coming in time? The PVV has already called for this plane to be put on as a weapon carrier immediately, so that we do not have to use such an expensive JSF to back the troops in all cases. So we could have an armed drone do the same. Is the Minister prepared to use the Reaperdrones as weapons carriers as well? I understand that the cost of this is actually limited, at least in Defence terms. So I'd say hang those missiles under those drones. Then there is the subject of human resources, Mr President. The bureaucratic civil servants' complex of Defense, some comparing it with the bureaucracy of the city of Amsterdam, has not been able to prevent unacceptable accidents. Terrible incidents follow each other at a rapid pace. The security of the military, as well as of civilians, is under pressure. Incidents such as terrible diseases and deaths by chromium-6, camouflage paint CARC, cleaning agent PX-10, burnpits, heat injury and uranium-polluted ammunition. A fatal mortar accident in Mali with two dead soldiers due to inadequate care and material defects. A fatal shooting at a shooting range in Ossendrecht. A fatal helicopter crash in Mali with two soldiers dead due to careless maintenance. Terrible incidents of violence and abuse in a barracks in Schaarsbergen. Poor aftercare and trauma counseling for war veterans, insufficiently focused on reintegration. Finally, I would like to mention a destructive report by the Veteran Ombudsman, which states that the complaint treatment of the Defense Department is careless and unsatisfying. None of this seems to me to be in line with the general principles of good governance and good employership. Mr. Chairman. That's how the military gets their hands on it. More and more soldiers are being subjected to unsafe working conditions and poor equipment. The Minister regards this as learning moments, as I have heard. Is that supposed to happen at the expense of our military? They're not guinea pigs, are they? Insecure working conditions and defective material must simply not be prevented. At the same time, the veteran must do it with inadequate care and must be bullied against municipal authorities who prefer an asylum-seekers' centre rather than a veteran's house. Not to mention the poor treatment of soldiers who have fallen victim to mistakes and accidents, and who sometimes only after years of litigation, sometimes there are already a number or perhaps even many who have died, who are receiving poor compensation in their eyes. Some call it a charity. Mr. Chairman. Finally. Defense personnel need to be on one. I agree with the Royal Navy Officers' Association. According to the unions, this requires a number of things. I will mention them and I will ask the Minister of State what she thinks of them and what she intends to do. The first is the reservation of sufficient money to enable a market-based wage building. What amount is needed for this, I ask the rulers. Secondly, there must be an insightful job evaluation system that takes much more account of military competences and the level of training of the military. Are the rulers prepared to do so? Thirdly, the need to abolish the so-called RVU fine of more than EUR 150 million annually is mentioned. That is the fine that the employer, in this case Defence, has to pay to the tax authorities in connection with the early retirement scheme. Do the rulers with the unions think that this fine is unjustified? What do they intend to do about it? So much for my input in the first term, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u4	Thank you. Then we are going to listen to Mr Bosman of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u5	On Monday, November 6, 1944, Middelburg was liberated. They were Scots of the 7th/9th Royal Scots who sailed with 250 men and 11 Buffalos from Vlissingen to Middelburg. Yeah, feed it, because Walcheren was underwater by now. The first Buffalo carries a white flag. They ride into the market from the long traffic jam. The news of their arrival is spreading rapidly. Diary writers note: "A part of the crew jumped out and began to capture the Germans, who came walking with raised arms." Some of the vehicles continue to the Dam. General Daser is on Dam 6. A Norwegian command acts as an interpreter and moves Daser to capitulation. Major Johnston is promoted to colonel for the occasion, allowing Daser to surrender with honor. The approximately 200 Allies place machine guns in strategic places to control the approximately 2,000 prisoners of war. Members of the resistance are helping. The whole city flies and cheers. On Dam Square, the statue of Queen-Mother Emma is hung with a wreath. Mr. Chairman. Our freedom today has not come naturally and should not be as self-evident as many think. I would therefore like to begin by thanking our liberators, the people of the resistance and all those who contributed to the liberation of the German occupation in Zeeland in November 1944. The Battle of the Scheldt is often cited by me. I am pleased that there is now a much broader focus on this battle, a battle that has cost many lives and caused immense material damage. But the battle has led to the end of the Second World War. Today, too, men and women of the armed forces stand ready to work for peace and security anywhere in the world. These men and women, too, deserve appreciation and recognition. It is a good thing that this cabinet is giving more than 1.5 billion extra to the defence sector in order to put the basics in order and take a step towards improving working conditions. Thanks to the commitment of the VVD, another 162 million has been added in the last Spring note, including additional money for working conditions. We're heading in the right direction, but we're far from there. The flexible staffing system needs to be adjusted on the shovel and the wage building, to name just two important items. I'll start with the flexible personnel system. It is good to read that the Commander of the Armed Forces, Admiral Bauer, is taking steps to make the system truly flexible. That is a long-awaited course of the VVD and also of me personally, I dare say. I would like to refer to an essay from 2006 that I wrote following a competition launched by the Ministry of Defence to get proposals for the armed forces of the future. I'll read you a piece from that essay. "What does Defense have to offer as an employer? At the moment, that is far too little. If we really want to join civil society, we will have to focus much more on how civil society works. Training within Defense must be almost one-on-one equivalent to civilian training. Maybe we can take training there or offer them defence training. We must think of opportunities and opportunities for the staff, especially given the possible introduction of a flexible staffing system. Make it easy to rotate in and out of Defense! That is better than giving all the military a unique education and getting them ready for the labour market at the end of their military career. Make sure we in Defense work in the same way as out there. Then all the work we do is also'regular', work experience. The flexible staffing system is, as far as I am concerned, again, this was written at the time "too much too little. If we really think we want a flexible staffing system with the right man/woman in the right place, why do I have to go through all grades with certain lead times? Why don't we have a 35-year-old General in Defense? Why can't I be Captain's direct lieutenant colonel? The reasons why this is not part of the old career system."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u6	I always like it when people quote from their own work, especially when it turns out that they had a vision, but I wonder why they did not listen to you thirteen years ago. And was there a contest? Why didn't anything happen to your proposal at the time? Do you know that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u7	This interruption makes me happy, of course. Of course, people need to listen to me more. Really. I think that is a good point from Mrs Belhaj. I think everyone in this Chamber should take that into account, because I simply need to be listened to sooner and more quickly. We wouldn't have slipped as far as we do now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u8	If you continue with your lines, we will all listen to you again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Why can't I be a captain directly lieutenant colonel? The reasons for not doing this are part of the old career system. If we think we should say goodbye to that old system, we should do the same. It means that the 35-year-old general with his 40th is entering the labour market. But that is also possible because we have this connection with society and the civil labour market. The other way around is also possible. Then we bring in a 35-year-old top manager to be a general for five years. A huge enrichment of knowledge within leadership and control. But it's about courage! Do we dare to take the test with the civil managers as Defence, or do we find ourselves too unique again in the things we do?" Mr. Chairman. All this was written in 2006, by a pilot at the time in the Air Force. A little peasant understanding can get you far, but this was 13 years ago. The ideas were already there within the Ministry. That's why we're really going through this and not falling back into old reflexes. I read that the Commander of the Armed Forces might be thinking about the conscription. Duty has nothing to do with the military of the future or with the adaptive military. That has everything to do with nostalgia. Therefore, don't waste time, and certainly not thirteen years, thinking about what it was like. We need to think about how it's gonna be. Does the Secretary of State agree with me? Mr. Chairman. I have some copies with me, because of course I am going to hand out my own work, to the Minister, to the Secretary of State and also to all colleagues, to take note of it. 'Cause there's a lot more in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u10	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u11	You're also willing to sign it after, I suppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u12	Of course, for a fee. Mr. Chairman. It is good to see that steps are being taken in civil certification, but the flexible personnel system of the future, the so-called adaptive force, still needs a step. In 2006, I indicated that the personnel system needed to be more flexible. Today it goes one step at a time that way. But we need to speed up a lot and actually think outside the box. I know that my proposal to have a general of 35 also leads to a lot of resistance within the Defence Organization. Nothing is more deadly for your career within the Defense Department than adjusting the career path of chief, flag and chief officers. That's why it has to be from the outside. Therefore, generals must come from outside, who shake the organization firmly. The reservist also plays a crucial role in this. And maybe we should get rid of terms like "reservist" and, much worse, "part-time military." They're all military, but with different forms of contract. Once they're in uniform, they're one hundred percent military. Let's treat them like this and name them like this. Does the Secretary of State agree with me? The VVD has the greatest respect for those who have meant a great deal for our country's freedom. I'm talking about our veterans now. Therefore, every effort must be made to do justice to the suffering caused by the important work they have done. The VVD therefore wholeheartedly supports the Veteran Ombudsman's recommendation. We urge the Minister to ensure that any assessment relating to the Military Invalidity Pension is completed within 180 days. That is not acceptable for a long time to come. We know there's a couple of cases being picked up, but it's not nearly enough. Not only the patience of the veterans is running out, but now also that of the VVD. We want the Minister to work on the recommendations and to ensure that they are put away between considerations for adjustments to the system. The urgency is too great. Work needs to be done to postpone the assessment of the Military Invalidity Pension until after reaching the medical end condition. That saves a lot of visits and the first assessment is the final assessment. We want a more active role of a care coordinator, someone who helps the veterans on the way, informs them about facilities, discusses their needs and assists them in the paperwork. Finally, we would like to see the disappearance of the need for a veteran to come to an insurance doctor when assessing a provision in application. We want the Minister to adopt these recommendations and thus take greater steps to complete any application relating to the Military Invalidity Pension of a veteran within 180 days. Big steps to give the veterans the recognition and the appreciation, which we all believe these veterans deserve! Man is the most important pillar within the armed forces for the battlepower of the armed forces. That other pillar is the material and the VVD is worried about that. We do not do that about the purchase of the equipment and the extra money that is available. Nothing but praise for this cabinet that makes that extra effort. The main concern is the armament of the equipment. A military organisation can only be credible if it can actually generate power. Especially now that we have to realise that we cannot live up to the defence of our own country, not NATO, and certainly not at EU level, it is time to invest more in the armed forces and in the force of force. We must realise that if we believe that we need to lean less on US support or believe that we can do without the support of the United States, we need to invest far more than the 2% we should invest now to make a credible contribution to our own security and to the alliance. The European Court of Auditors even talked about investing hundreds of billions more in order to achieve an equivalent impact if we want to guarantee our own security without the support of the United States. And with all that investment, we are not there yet, Mr President! I also have to say that we are actually ten years late with the investment. In order to deal with today's threats, we should have had access to the people, but also to the battlepower of the armed forces. That is why we need to invest permanently in the defence sector and not think that peace has broken out and we can make cuts in the defence sector. At least I learned that lesson. The VVD remains, therefore, a supporter of NATO as a cornerstone of our security, but then we have to meet the demands we have made ourselves in Wales. Mr. Chairman. If I'm talking about impact, what am I thinking? Again, not exhausting. Let me put that first, because there's a lot more to it. First of all, I think it is very good that the cabinet has decided to purchase nine additional F-35s. The F-35 is a force multiplier and a force enabler for the entire army. It is a huge addition to the force of action of the air force, but also to that of the entire military force. As far as the VVD is concerned, more F-35s are added. Ships must be able to shoot the ballistic missiles they can detect with the Dutch SMART-L radar. I think that would require the Standard Missile 3 rockets, but we are still buying the Missile 2, which is much less suitable for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u13	I was wondering why Mr Bosman wants to stick to the 2% NATO standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u14	That 2% is actually calculated on what countries simply have to do to ensure their own security. That's where the 2% came from.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u15	Why doesn't Mr Bosman make that happen himself in his own programme and with his own cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u16	That's too bad. I couldn't agree more. I keep fighting and fighting for that, because I think it's important that we work towards that. I am pleased that this cabinet is taking steps in that direction with the 1.5 billion plus the 162 million in the Spring Note. I think that's very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u17	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u18	If Mr Bosman cannot guarantee that he will add 6 billion or 7 billion to the review now or next year, then this is simply for the stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u19	I think the SP sometimes talks about a health care fund, and that's not going to happen tomorrow either. I think those are plans for the future, where you say we're going to go that way. Coincidentally, the VVD is now in the cabinet and we are taking careful steps in that direction with 1.5 billion in addition. Those are careful steps that go in the right direction. I'm happy about that. It is a good step in the right direction. Mr. Chairman. The frigates must also have crusader weapons on board and be able to fire. These are so-called tomahawks for land purposes, but they can also be used for surface purposes at sea. For the replacement of the M-frigates that are now under discussion, perhaps we should also think of the replacement of the air defence and command fregates, the LCFs, which is only in the late 1920s. Maybe it's useful again, I'm a layman to have one kind of frigate, but more frigates with identical armament and equipment. That weapon must have the entire range of defence, from close-in goalkeeper, or its successor, to Ballistic Missile Defense, SM-3 or possibly SM-6, and everything in between: Sea Sparrow and Harpoon against surface ships, torpedoes against surface ships, but also against submarines. In short, a fully armed platform that can project an enormous force against the enemy. Fortunately, the combat support ship now gets armament for self-defense, where earlier it was said that that might not happen. For a Navy ship that has to go on mission, there's no other way than that it has armament, at least for self-defense. I often refer to the story of Sir Galahad during the Falklands War. If a ship cannot defend itself, there will always have to be a frigate nearby as soon as there is a risk of violence. But that seems to me to be a very expensive solution. How does the Secretary of State view this? The Dutch submarines should also be able to carry cross-flight weapons and anti-ship missiles, in addition to the important torpedoes already planned. Now let's quickly decide on the purchase of those submarines. And let me repeat once again that the VVD takes defence strategy as its starting point: a strong Dutch industry, coupled with our excellent knowledge institutions, working with the Royal Navy, to arrive at the best boat. And yes, Mr President, I do not use the term "for the best price" here. Let us now note that there is no competitive price with state-owned companies that can cover their own risks with state aid and offer equipment below cost. Is the Secretary of State also aware of the fact that the German Government is not planning to award European military equipment, which has been identified as key technology and is important for the security of Germany? Why would the Netherlands still do that? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. The Air Force's MQ-9 Reaper must also be armed. Why fly around mission areas and identify danger, but cannot intervene? We're restricting the security of the military in mission area. A Reaper is no different than an F-16 or an F-35. They remain manned devices, only with the Reaper the kite is not in the aircraft, but on the ground behind the controls. We are now imposing a political limitation on military efforts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u20	We have bad experiences with developing new submarines in the Netherlands. Experts also say you can't do that alone. I also heard Mr Bosman write a blank cheque. How much can it cost?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u21	No, then Mrs. Karabulut didn't listen properly. First of all, the Walrus is a success. It's one of the best diesel-electric submarines in the world. People look at the Walrus with some envy. If you're linking the cost to the lifespan, you're talking about life-cycle costs, it's a really good boat for a really good price. People think that an investment at the front is too high, but in the end it delivers a good weapon system over the years. That is why I say: it may be the best boat, but the question is whether it is the best price if you calculate it at the front, because then you have to calculate life-cycle costs. So it's not a blank check when it comes to life-cyle costs. Those are the major costs you'll have by default.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u22	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u23	We have seen it at the JSF and we see it here: 2.5 billion is all we know now. That is the minimum, but the question is: can that be 5 billion, 6 billion or 7 billion? What can the military industrial complex earn and at what cost? You have also seen that our teachers all want more wages. So I would say not submarines, but teachers. I'd like to hear how much that VVD can really cost, who's going to make money from it and where it's coming from.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u24	Mrs Karabulut mentioned the F-35. If you look at the lifetime of the F-35, it will yield the Dutch economy 10 billion in those years. That's 10 billion in economic income. You'd almost say we'd have to buy more of them, because that's money. Mr. Chairman. First of all, it is about our national security. A submarine is a unique tool for knowledge gathering. That may not have been Mrs Karabulut's question, but I will answer it. The point is that this submarine is essential for the defence of the Netherlands and for the security of the Dutch men and women who are being broadcast.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u25	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u26	Because it's intelligence. It's important for safety. If you're not willing to invest money in your own safety, you have to ask yourself whether you're ultimately worth that security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u27	I'll do the interruptions in half. I am therefore happy to give the floor to Mrs Diks. She was a little late. I started this debate with a plea to keep the number of interruptions limited.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u28	Mr President, Mrs Diks was on time, but we started earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u29	You're absolutely right about that. I do not blame you, but since you were not here, I repeat my request to limit the number of interruptions. I call Mrs Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u30	Thank you very much for this correction, Mr. Bosman. I was indeed going to do something different, assuming that this whole feast wouldn't start until 9:00 p.m. We just learned that we need to listen carefully to your words, so I let them settle for a while. You actually said earlier that the Dutch Defence Department is not credible until we contribute 2% to NATO. I'm sure you didn't mean to say that we don't have credibility today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u31	No, I don't think I said it like that. If you want to create a full force, you have to invest in it as well. I think 2% is a good target number. Whether we get 1.9%, it's about putting down a military force filled with people who are trained and trained with good equipment, good equipment and with weapons in a wide range.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u32	Of course, it is not the case that with a contribution of 2% to NATO we would have full power and could protect the Netherlands independently. You don't believe that myth, do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u33	No, but in the end there are a number of tasks that you can do much better in the Netherlands. The use of military personnel in the Netherlands with regard to the security of the Netherlands is better. But we also have a responsibility in the Kingdom. We're gonna have to have a defense for that, too. In NATO too, we have a responsibility for the defence. So all these cases are getting together. I still believe that NATO is the cornerstone of security policy, especially for the VVD. So you're part of a whole. If you are part of a whole it is almost even more important to meet the agreements you make as a group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u34	Your phone is ringing, Mrs. Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u35	A helpline.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u36	That's the group leader calling, Mrs Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u37	That was my alarm clock.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u38	Mr Bosman continues his text.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u39	The army must also hold on to its impact and build on it. It is good that there will be precision munitions for the howitzer, but also further expansion of the army to fire support and impact force for support of units is of great importance. How do the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State view the force of the armed forces? Can we speed up the purchase of equipment? It's not a delay. It's a purchase. I'd like an explanation from both of them. In short, if we want to play our role in the world and take responsibility for the safety of the Netherlands and our allies, we will also have to be able to project violence and deliver a blow. Like Roosevelt said, "Speak softly, but carry a big stick." We need to learn from that history. If we, as politicians, ask the military to use force within their mandate, it may happen that civilian casualties are being suffered. I know that the Dutch military is doing everything in their power to prevent civilian casualties. Prior to the deployment, all goals and possible side effects will be assessed and validated. They're all being checked. The bet goes with laser-controlled bombs, to hit the targets as precisely as possible. After the use of F-16s with bombs, the Public Prosecutor's Office always looked at whether the bet was justified and fit within the order. We can be very transparent about the consequences of the deployment of the Dutch armed forces, but this transparency must not endanger the deployment of the troops, the progress of the operation or the individual military. Especially with regard to the individual military, the VVD considers that he or she cannot be brought to justice if the military has done his or her duties in good conscience. In that case, the only defendant could be the Secretary of Defense himself. Does the Minister agree with me? Mr. Chairman. Another domain where we can generate impact power is space. Space, in Dutch. The Royal Air Force is taking steps to better understand and control the space domain. But that's an air force choice. Space is the domain that is essential to almost everything we do on Earth. We drive our cars from a to b with GPS. We're using satellites and watching TV from all over the world. We see it re-emerging and we can warn of the dangers of that weather. Our intelligence agencies have eyes on places we can't go otherwise. Space is also invaluable to the armed forces, for communication throughout the world of troops, but also the sharing of information between the F-35 and those troops, on the ground or with headquarters from anywhere in the world. The intelligence services are given the opportunity to test independently information, on which the Dutch government can decide whether it wants to deploy the troops in an area or not. Then there must be an overarching policy on space, and the money must be added. How does the Minister see this? Finally, Mr President. Battle force in the cyber domain. Here too we take small steps to see what is going on. I charge, because there are a lot of people very intensively concerned about cyber security, both at the Department of Defense and at the Justice Department. I'm afraid it's not going fast enough. Cyber will be the new domain of warfare. Are we equipped for that? Haven't we too limited ourselves in our possibilities? We are always very neat and ethical like the Netherlands, but what if the enemy isn't? How do we defend ourselves against an enemy who has nothing to do with ethics? Don't we make ourselves unnecessarily vulnerable? I'd like a response from the Minister. We really need to go into the 21st century with the armed forces. With the staff, but certainly with the equipment. With our responsibility as the sixth economy of the world, we must fulfil that role in the security domain. This can only be done with a strong military force, with good personnel and with equipment capable of generating impact. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u40	Thank you. Then Mrs Diks from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u41	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin today by quoting a few words from Theodore Roosevelt, the 26th President of the United States. I understand I'm not the only one tonight. He's a source of inspiration. Freely translated into Dutch, he said: "The best thing you can do at a turning point is to make a correct decision. The second best thing you can do is make the wrong decision. The worst thing you can do is nothing." I was reminded of these words when I read the 2020 Defence Budget, because once again the cabinet chooses not to choose. We keep doing everything a little bit. A few million more here and there, nine extra jets, some tanks. But the fundamental choices about the future of the armed forces remain out. The fear of choosing the ruler also seems to seep through to projects that had been started for a long time. Oh, sorry, I hear my alarm clock's going off.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u42	I'll turn it off.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u43	Is your alarm clock going off, Mrs. Diks? Should you have woken up now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u44	Yes, I was assuming that the debate would begin at 10 p.m. If that other debate had not stopped suddenly, that would have been a very likely outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u45	And then you'd be scared to death?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u46	A man must always be honest. I probably learned that from Mr Bosman. Mr. Chairman. Replacing frigates, replacing submarines, moving the marine barracks in Doorn: all these decisions will not be taken until 2021. A salient detail is that in March 2021 the elections of the House of Representatives are expected to take place. It seems, therefore, that the directors are passing these difficult decisions to their successors. In any event, the concrete question as to whether this cabinet is going to take these decisions was answered evasively in the written round. We did not have to count on a clear vision of the military force of the future, but now the major decisions on ongoing projects are being postponed. In our view, it is beginning to appear that the directors want to look after the shop in particular for the remaining one and a half years. GroenLinks thinks that's a waste of time. That is why we have started our own process internally in order to arrive at a clear vision of the armed forces of the future, including the choices that come with them. I can tell you that for my party with pacifist roots that feels rather uncomfortable, but the urgency is simply too great. We must now move the beacons to have the armed forces we want in ten years' time. You'll hear from us. And I don't mean that as threatening as it sounds right now. I would like to make a few comments on specific dossiers, first of all on the environmental strategy which the directors sent to the Chamber. The spatial planning of the Netherlands is at risk of closing because this cabinet has systematically ignored warnings and failed to make adequate policies. This affects not only the farmers and construction workers, but the whole of the Netherlands and therefore also the Defence Department. The Chamber asked what the nitrogen crisis meant to the Defense Department. The directors replied: "Possibly this means that real estate projects, material projects and IT projects with real estate components are delayed, which can have financial and operational consequences." I do not think that answer is enough. I want to know when the Chamber will be clear about the projects that are affected by delays or additional costs. I'd like a clear response to this. In addition, the environmental strategy only sets targets for 2050. The previous 2030 targets are no longer mentioned. Mr Belhaj also drew attention to this at the WHO, excuse me, last week's legislative consultation. We simply cannot save the climate targets if we do nothing in the next ten years and then find around 2040 that the targets for 2050 are no longer realistic. Can the directors promise that the previously communicated targets for 2030, i.e. 20% less dependent on fossil fuels compared to 2010 and 50% of the necessary energy generation in campings, will still be fully valid? If so, when will the Chamber be informed? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The Veteran Ombudsman has repeatedly urged the Minister to improve the information provision and assessment domains for the military invalidity pension. On 14 October last he did this again in an extensive letter. Veterans who have become disabled during service must know as soon as possible what their rights are and how the assessment will work out for them. The Minister states that last year two additional insurance doctors were appointed to fill the deficits. Unfortunately, reading the Veteran Ombudsman's letter, we have to conclude that this has still not led to the desired improvement. How is that possible, I would like to ask the Minister. Shouldn't there be much more serious consideration of the appointment of supplementary insurance doctors? What is happening to improve information provision? Are there any steps taken at that point? I'd like a response. The defence of our Kingdom also includes the defence of the Caribbean islands. When examining the Cabinet Defence Note, the Chamber adopted my motion. I asked for the options for international cooperation in the defence of the Caribbean islands to be examined. In the meantime, within the new European Intervention Initiative, the Minister has set up a working group for cooperation in the defence of the Caribbean. I would like to thank the Minister for that. But there is another request in the motion, namely to look explicitly at the possibility and desirability of a treaty requiring mutual defence. Did the minister pick up that part of the motion as well? If so, when will she return to that? Mr. Chairman. STIVD is working every day to guard the Dutch security interests. The STIVD has many powers for this, also powers that occur in the privacy of Dutch and foreign citizens. The tow law, which the Dutch people had ruled against, significantly increased those powers. Since the introduction of the drag law, several reports from the CTIVD have been published, which consistently show that both the STIVD and the AIVD were not prepared for the implementation of those powers and the safeguards associated with them. One of the latest reports shows that sharing collected data with foreign services without knowing the content is not happening carefully enough. That was one of the things GroenLinks explicitly warned about in the handling of this law. We give away information that we don't know what's in it. A recommendation from the CTIVD to stop the practice at STIVD that data are considered read if they are automated or categorically checked, not per individual data, the Minister does not want to follow. I don't think this is acceptable. If the supervisor warns, the minister should take action. Is she still willing to do this? If not, I'll ask the Chamber for a ruling. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a few smaller points. That sounds too small in the context in which I say it, I see it now, because it is big things that matter to many people. Last week on Radio 1, the Secretary of State said she wanted to investigate if our armed forces could spread fake news. I understand that it may be useful in military operations to do so, but it really crosses a border as far as GroenLinks is concerned. In an era where fake news is gaining more and more influence, we as a government must fight against it instead of contributing to it. So I hope the Secretary of State will agree that the Defense Department will never use fake news. Finally, a question to the Minister on burnpits. Last week, during the legislative consultation, she indicated that separate studies will be carried out on combination toxicity. Can it now say anything about when this investigation is going to take place and when the Court can expect results from it? For people who have been on mission and who are now home with lung problems or worse, every month counts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u47	Thank you. Mr Van Helvert from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last September I walked along with my son in the Airborne Hiking Tour, the largest one-day memorial tour in the context of the Battle of Arnhem of 1944. The theme was remembrance, awareness and experience. That was the key point. It was an impressive journey for my son, but also for me, in which I was allowed to speak many fellow walkers. Here, the sense of peace and security lived tremendously, just as the realization of what can happen if we do not know peace and the consequences are great. This awareness is becoming less and less evident among new generations, although not everyone participates in this journey, although the number of participants is very large. This while the insecurity around us is often increasing and also growing in the world. In 2020, Defense will continue to restore and modernise the armed forces. That's very important. Since the budgetary depth of 2014, Defence has just over 3 billion extra to spend by 2020. Defense's budget comes to 11 billion. With the government agreement, this cabinet invests 1.5 billion euros a year in Defence. The Spring Paper 2019 added an occasional €1.5 billion and a structural € 162 million per year. There is a record number of investment projects. We must think of new transport aircraft, submarines, frigates, a supply ship, personal equipment, the modernisation of armoured vehicles and investments in IT and cyber. But this is not enough for the future. It is a step forward, but there is also a lot of late maintenance and setbacks. Every day every Dutchman spends about €1.75 to our army, our military, on peace and security. For €1,75 you and I buy our safety. For €1.75 a day we protect our country. For €1.75 a day, we also send women and men to dangerous areas to help people for our safety. We had more money left in the Netherlands in 2019, 12.3 billion, than we were willing to spend on Defense, 10.4 billion. All the money we spend on social security, with 1% of that budget, you can add almost 10% to the Defence budget, to care, education and to our municipalities and provinces, all the money we spend on it, which is extremely important, will become meaningless in one blow if we are no longer free. It's useless if we don't live safe in this world anymore. At the very moment when the Minister of Finance is defending the budget in the Chamber during the General Financial Reviews, a budget which was agreed in this cabinet, the Prime Minister has written in the newspaper from abroad that more money has to be sent to Defence. I agree with the Prime Minister, but my question is why he says so after Princess Day, after the General Reviews. But has the Secretary of Defense noticed any of this generous statement by the Prime Minister? Or what did the Secretary of Defense notice of this ruling? With the extra budget that Defense has been awarded, it is now heavily invested. The CDA asks the Cabinet whether targeted policies for the exploitation of that investment are also being developed. After all, we can buy equipment, but if we can't maintain it, it's only very short and very few. Then the window is nice, but the warehouse is empty. We have considerable financial blocks on our hands, which are mentioned here and there in the budget, but not with clear figures. For example, how much delay is there for those stocks? How big is the ICT's financial footprint in the coming years? What are the additional costs in the new wage building? And what kind of financial freak is behind the real estate and the practice grounds? I'll get back to you on that. Can the supply chain of materials and logistics be restored with the 2020 budget? A vehicle, a ship or a plane is beautiful, but without supplies, it's no use. Is there a budget for stocks, payroll building, real estate, practice areas, ICT and the supply chain material logistics? Mr. Chairman. The large financial deficit is also somewhat masked by the shortage of staff. There are no less than 8,273 vacancies. One in five military positions is not occupied and the workload is increasing. Nevertheless, absenteeism remains low, a compliment to our women and men. The understaffing means that we can do less, we need less equipment and less supplies and we need to pay fewer people. If we were at full strength, the deficit would become really clear in its full size. To what extent does this underemployment mask the financial problem? And the influx isn't even the biggest problem. It's about the huge outflow from the Defense Department. What makes people not stay with the D.O.D.? And how can we solve that? The personnel, our men and women in uniform are the gold of the defense organization. The CDA welcomes the agreement on working conditions that has been reached. This is crucial for restoring trust, but more is needed to bind and preserve people, as the unions also write in the letter to the Chamber. A new staffing system and a new market-based wage building are needed. That must be ready on 1 July next year, as has been agreed. In fact, the current wage building dates back to the service period, which my colleague Mr Bosman has already mentioned. In particular, the lower framework deserves relatively little. In response to questions to the 2017 BZK report on what government personnel earn compared to the market sector, and defence personnel, the directors refer to this as reasonable, but to what extent does the report reflect the special position of a military? For example, in the CDA's view, training and temporary work allowances are very low. Does the Secretary of State share the criticism that defence's job evaluation system, based on that of the government, should take more account of military competences? And how do the rulers see the space and possibilities in the RVU tax? It is also difficult in terms of rotation, because we have few people. Technical staff is almost impossible to find, as is the case in many sectors in the Netherlands. Technical mbos are picked up with the service car from school or another job and in all ranks we have partially filled battalions, too few soldiers and too few petty officers. This understaffing ensures that many exercises and tasks cannot be performed. This is demotivating on personnel, leaving even more soldiers. We don't have enough Manoeuvre units. According to the NATO standard that we have agreed with ourselves, there must be four, but I think we only have three. The problems apply to all parts of Defense, because at the military level it will also be extra pressure around the Brexit. On top of the already high pressure, additional requests, such as from the police, to secure judges and officers after the murder of attorney Derk Wiersum. If we can believe the newspaper, the Marechaussee has not yet responded to this distress call. Is that right? The KMar itself claims to be overloaded with the security of mosques, synagogues, the Second Chamber and the airport Schiphol, which was also on the news about this tonight. Is this message correct and what can the rulers do about it? By the way, the police also continue to attract the people of the KMar, because the police are looking for people again. The pressure of military deployment is enormous due to shortages in the chain. If technicians go on mission with two helicopters, then everything around the helicopters in the Netherlands stands still. The current military force is what we managed to maintain financially after a quarter cuts. There hasn't been room for real future vision yet. That is why the review of the Defence Note is urgently needed. The Minister informed the Chamber quite a bit about that on 2 October. What tasks do we expect from the Defense Department? What are we good at and are we going to strengthen it? What are we less strong at, and are we going to repel it or raise it? What does NATO and the UN expect from us and what does the EU expect from us? More importantly, how do we contribute to peace and security in the world and the importance of the Netherlands? In the letter, the Minister states that she is clearly involving the Chamber and also external parties in order to achieve this review. The CDA looks forward to the discussion and looks forward to the input of the Ministry of Defence and also of external experts in order to form a reasoned opinion. The women and men of our armed forces are doing very important and good work. Every effort is a tough one for the organisation, because equipment, supplies and staff are very scarce. We're currently at the lowest number of people broadcast since times: 480 if I'm right. It is precisely in these missions that we do important work to prevent major problems and danger closer to home. In Afghanistan last month we visited the Dutch Mountain camp in Mazar-e-Sharif and the NATO headquarters of Resolute Support in Kabul. We have seen for ourselves what progress is being made between all the violence of setbacks. The dishonorable thing about the work of our military is that the eyes of the world and also of the Netherlands are often focused on the progress that the Taliban sometimes make, while those same eyes often seem to be closed to the lasting progress that our armed forces make possible there. The Netherlands is there to ensure that the Afghan army and the Afghan police will be able to guarantee their own security in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u49	A question from Mr Öztürk, unless I interrupt you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u50	I can wait another ten minutes, you know. I hear the CDA spokesman correctly say that there are deficits and that a lot of people are leaving. But what I don't hear from him, but I do when I talk to Defense personnel about why they're leaving, is that there's been cuts in Defense from the CDA and the VVD for years. That's not what you're saying. These cuts have given these people little pay, little personal material and so on. The CDA doesn't mention that. I'm sorry about that. In addition, something is being created: we are good for the Defense Department. But this has not been the case for the past ten years. Let's be honest and name that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u51	I was just looking back. I opened with the Airborne Walking Tour, but in my second sentence I immediately started on the budget depth because of the cuts. We have indeed contributed to this, all of us. You weren't with DENK at the time, but with the Labour Party, so were you and all of us. Oh, the SP was always for more spending on Defense. I forgot. But they've changed their minds on that point. The point is that we all thought it was a time when it was less necessary, that Defence was less needed. We've all come back from that. I suggest we let each other know. You're doing very well, and I'll return it to you. But let us look above all in the election programmes to see if we have said that more investment is needed. Then I see DENK doesn't come through and the CDA does.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u52	The second thing I hear from the military is that they are too often sent to missions and that they basically say they can't handle it. Now I see again that the CDA but also the coalition parties simply accord all missions. So if you're saying you don't have a lot of staff and you still want to serve all those superpowers, I think you're failing our own people. Is the CDA willing to do hardly any missions for a while, or almost no missions, so that we put our military in order first, so that we serve our soldiers well with salary, equipment and training, so that they get some rest, and then see if we will join those great powers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u53	I would like to thank Mr Öztürk very much for this question, which gives me the opportunity to say that he has incorrect information. After all, we approve far from all missions. Far from it. At the moment there are so many applications in the Dutch direction that we could have encouraged as a parliament or as a coalition for a long time. We could have said to the cabinet: yes, do so quickly! We have not done so at all with all the requests at the moment. So in that sense, that information is really wrong. Ask one of the CDA, but I think all the parties here in the Chamber are right away: "Dear Minister, if we get such a question, can we handle it with our army?" Can we please get a briefing from the Commander of the Armed Forces to show us that we are basically ready to do so? That's really the very first question, really not just from the CDA. That's actually what all parties are asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u54	Fine. You're continuing. I'll do the interruptions in half, Mr. Öztürk. You're moving on, Mr. Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u55	I would also like to ask the cabinet what is the situation with regard to this basic readiness if, for example, we get that question about Hormuz. Can we send a ship at all? Is a ship basic, but also mission-ready? For example, can they handle a place as dangerous as Hormuz? If we ever get that question again, for example from Europe, can we send a ship at all? In fact, I do not see anything in the budget about the development on the Russian side. Why is nothing written about the Russian side, when the Russian side has invested greatly and is also getting much stronger? Mr. Chairman. NATO expects the allies to have a national plan to reach 2% by 2024. The Netherlands, through the Prime Minister, has also submitted such a plan. A good first start has been made with the Spring Paper. There's gonna be money for nine F-35s, special forces, cyber and personnel. But that's not nearly enough. NATO is asking for much more: for more firepower at sea, on land and in the air. On 4 December there will be a NATO summit in London on the occasion of the 70th anniversary of the alliance. What is our cabinet going to say there to show that we also want to get that 2%? After all, we say in the budget that we are not achieving that 2%, but there is no justification for that. It doesn't say that we're actually not okay with that either, or how we're gonna do it eventually. The CDA calls on the cabinet to shape that national plan and would like to see how we are working on it, also towards the re-evaluation of next year. I say this all the more so now that serious problems are being exposed. For example, at the moment, defence has not allocated funds for the implementation of the operational energy strategy. The financial consequences are yet to be seen, with a budget under pressure. Even more worrying is the state of the real estate. I really want to make that a very important point. It hangs like a millstone around the neck of Defense, because after years of austerity, I also say to Mr Öztürk, we have neglected maintenance. A huge catch-up is necessary. The CDA saw in the staff note that there is a deficit of about 6 billion euros in the coming years. Is this true? 'Cause that's quite a corpse out of the closet, you'd say. Already, the Department of Defense is forced to take money away from equipment to close the worst gaps. For example, the LC fregates have been postponed for no less than five years. That's not good for our Navy industry again. The CDA sees a further balding of the equipment in the prospect. We find this extremely undesirable. I'd like to have a reaction to that. What is the government's view of the climate funds, which it pays out every year, about 300 million; exactly what we lack every year, to spend as much as possible in the state real estate? After all, the aim of the climate funds was to make the state real estate more sustainable. That's what we want. That is an objective of all of us. If we can solve a major problem in the Defense Department directly by making state real estate sustainable, isn't that a solution to the problem? If the cabinet feels strengthened when we as a Chamber make a ruling on this matter, then I am prepared to table a motion for this plan in the second instance. Mr. Chairman. The CDA is concerned about delays in major projects, first of all ICT. That's not gonna make any sense. They're gonna ask for a reprieve for that again. We fully understand good research, but we do need ICT and it will not be cheaper. How much longer do we have to wait for that? The decision on the Marine barracks has been made. But when can we expect implementation? When will that decision be implemented? Flessingen waits, but also Doorn waits, because they also want to go through. The decision on the submarines is not taken either. This also takes longer and longer. Because these frigates have also been delayed for five years, it is becoming increasingly difficult to maintain an independent, self-developing, autonomous naval construction in the Netherlands. Because we can't just do that with those four frigates that we can build, while we postpone everything else. That's a real danger to me. The discussion is not only that we want the best boat for the best price, but also how we maintain the naval construction in the Netherlands. My supporter Hanke Bruins Slot has always been very clear about that. She has tabled motions for resolutions on this matter. We want speed at that point. When can we make that choice? How much information does the cabinet want to ask for at all? And what are they missing from information that doesn't make it possible to make a decision yet? Parties that will be disappointed because they are not allowed to do so will continue to be disappointed if we wait for the message of postponement. However, the delay will weaken the winner of the tender, as he will have to wait longer and longer with the investment. Let's see. I've got a few more minutes, so I'm gonna end up with this. The recalibrate is very important. We are very much looking forward to that, because that is where we will have to show what Defence is really worth to us. If the armed forces are worth anything to us, if security is worth anything to us, and if the protection of our homeland is worth anything to us, then we will have to make that choice. Whatever choice we make, there's gonna have to be money. I would ask the parties to take this into account in their programmes for the next elections. We cannot allow this basic task of the government to be lost for €1.75 a day. Finally. Last sentence, Chairman. The CDA Group Chamber was once a ministerial chamber in the last century, where weekly cabinet meetings were held. That was the reason that above the four doors the four main tasks of the government were painted and written out: spiritual development, physical development, legislation and, Mr. Chairman,... Defence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u56	And what door will you come in through? What's the most important door?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u57	I usually come in through the DOD door, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u58	That was a little instinct. Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Karabulut, the representative of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u59	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by expressing my appreciation and thanks for all the people who have been willing to receive me as Defence spokesperson for the last two years. Without speaking up in good faith and sometimes under very difficult circumstances, we have talked about choices, personal consequences and their passion to work for the Defense Department. The POMS employees who have been exposed to toxic substances, such as chromium-6. In search of justice they shared their personal stories, anger and grief. We have talked about how cruelly they have been treated by their employer and how they could look back towards the future. The people who have become ill from exposure to burnpits, which is still under investigation. The veterans, a number of whom have been severely traumatized and have become victims of unsafe situations and wrong decisions. Yet they go on, they have to go on, sometimes outside of all regular aid and the Defence Organization. The whistleblowers who brought out their story against will and thanks through the media, because they were forced to do so. That's the only way they could force change within the Defense Organization. The serious abuse case at the barracks in Schaarsbergen, which marked young people for life. Whistleblower, pilot Van Wulfen, did win a win on points yesterday at the courthouse. He's not the psych patient he was put away. The Disciplinary Board has justified a number of complaints, such as forgery of his medical record and failure to answer by a doctor. May I have a response from the Secretary of State? I remind the relatives of the dead military in Mali and the shooting range in Ossendrecht, as well as the other dead victims of accidents in employment. I would like to express my appreciation for the military I recently had the pleasure of speaking in Afghanistan. They work in a country torn apart by war and violence, under difficult conditions in a super-complex society, with the most unsafe times for the Afghan people in years, even after eighteen years of military presence by the United States and NATO. They've all made a deep impression on me. I have learned from them and will continue to work for them. The staff should be in the first place. Mr. Chairman. Yesterday we discussed a compelling example of secret warfare. An example, in which at least 70 civilians died in Hawija as a result of Dutch bombing, which was lied about. That debate has not yet been concluded. We still don't know a lot. Is it true that the ministries that knew about the civilian casualties together constitute a permanent sub-committee of the cabinet? Is it true that this is the Defence and International Affairs Council? Or is it the Council that was called the Intelligence and Security Services Council in 2012? If not, what advice has it been? Or was it an ad hoc band-aid? Or has it been discussed exclusively in the Missions and Operations Steering Group? Is it also correct that the Prime Minister, who at least cannot remember today, was involved in the decision to keep the attack on Hawija a secret? Where has it been decided on your plan, on the Minister's plan, to be more transparent about incidents involving civilian casualties? I'd like to get an answer to all these questions. Mr. Chairman. Over the last two years, my group has asked a great many questions and put proposals on various forms of secret warfare. The Netherlands was involved in the biggest cyber attack ever: Stuxnet. Major Kroon's revelations have revealed secret operations in Afghanistan. And there are several covert operations about which I, as representatives of the people, are in no way informed. We must not know the truth about the now infamous support for Syrian rebel groups that are now attacking the Syrian Democratic Forces, the Kurds. Following the revelations of Nieuwsuur and Trouw, this subject has been labeled "State secret." Long live democracy! Public disclosure is not about state security, but about the security of Islamic militias, says the cabinet. Oh, democracy! Mr. Chairman. When we wanted to invite soldiers to a hearing on this subject last September, the Minister did not give his consent. I would ask the Minister to give this consent so that we can at least discuss this important subject annually as a Chamber of Experts. The Minister had also promised me, twice, to send the Secretary-General's appointment to SG A/78, which he had promised. I'd like to receive it for tomorrow. Mr. Chairman. The Minister considers that the Prime Minister should give butter to the fish in order to meet NATO's demand for an expenditure of 2% of gross domestic product by 2024. What's with the tough talk? Isn't it clear from the Minister's budget that we're not gonna make it? Is it prepared to tell the honest story about this and to officially abandon this standard? By staring so blindly at this article of faith, the actual discussion is ignored: what kind of defence do we want and what are we going to do with NATO, which is in crisis and which is made up of unreliable superpowers? We need a review of security policy and a new security architecture. Can the Minister respond to this? Can it also respond to the statement that we are now unwise to commit ourselves to these NATO plans, because next year it will come up with a review of the great defence plan? So why turn us over now to the whims of Trump, Erdogan and NATO, a failed NATO, who wants to continue playing global police? Mr. Chairman. If you're talking about the Secretary of State, you're talking about the VVD. She was a VVD member for a reason before becoming Secretary of State. When you think about the VVD, what are you thinking? Right, to submarines and to the vicious lobby that is being run behind the scenes and in front of the cameras. The cost estimate is EUR 2.5 billion. But is this a hard line, too? Can these costs be doubled, as with the JSF? That's another favorite project of the VVD. What line is the Secretary of State on? From the nationalist lobby? Or more of the European branch, for which the Minister of Defence and the Prime Minister seem to have a slight preference? The Minister may also respond, like the Secretary of State, to the question of whether this is true. What is the state of play in the lobby struggle, in which many former politicians emerge as fervent advocates for this or that yard? Perhaps Mr Bosman can tell us in this way Does the Secretary of State share the analysis that we are seeing the military-political industrial complex in full operation here and that ultimately pays the citizen? If not, why not? Let me be clear: as far as my group is concerned, we are not going to deal with that. Not billions to submarines, but to teachers, who today went on the streets massively for our future and good education. Good education and strong teachers are also needed for safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u60	I think the Secretary of State is there as Secretary of State for Defence and not on behalf of a party. That's the first thing. Second. The SP wants to cut 3 billion dollars on defense. The SP just had the story about what the defense should look like. But then the SP must also admit that the SP Defense Department is actually some sort of Boy Scout club behind the dikes. How does the SP see its own Defense Department?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u61	First of all, I see Sinterklaas standing opposite me. When I hear Mr Bosman's story, he lives not only in a fantasy world, but in a fantasy world where he scatters billions and lobbies with companies, where it's big, bigger, biggest, and he wants to spend even more billions on arms. We have, unlike the VVD, made a sketch of what defence should look like for us. First of all, we want to get rid of permanent warfare. We do not want to be involved in the permanent warfare of great powers in all kinds of distant countries, which has absolutely nothing to do with our defence, which is not about human rights and all kinds of values you claim to represent, but about interests. That's one. The second is that we want de-escalation instead of a new cold war. The third is that we want disarmament instead of arms. We certainly do not want to buy JSF, which will then have very new, small, very precise nuclear weapons, which can very precisely meet humanity. In this context, we have laid down a plan, in which the cut you have made was not me, but you were ultimately possible with a lower level of ambition, a feasible level, with the staff still being treated well. That was a few years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u62	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u63	Mr President, I am not finished.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u64	That's what I was afraid of.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u65	What exactly that should look like, we should look at that. But then the VVD. What you've done is cut back. Then you kept chasing NATO. Then all missions had to continue with the state of the military as it is now. Now you again, Mr. Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u66	To exaggerate is also a profession. It's really fantastic. It's good to hear that the SP can do that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u67	I'm not exaggerating anything, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u68	I call Mr Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u69	Mrs Karabulut does not comment on the fact that 3 billion cuts are about 20,000 fewer jobs. Does Mrs Karabulut accept that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u70	No, no. Again, I didn't cut anything. You've been cutting back. At that time, I thought about how it should be if we want to cut back. At least it shouldn't be like the VVD did. We have seen the consequences of this in recent years; I have mentioned a number of them. I have just indicated that we do not buy expensive submarines. We don't buy expensive jets either. We don't need any to defend our country. What we do want is to have our defenses in order. We will have to look at exactly what that should look like under these circumstances. Your lobby, your submarine lobby, your military-industrial complex with large armament and want to continue to engage in permanent warfare in countries like Afghanistan for 18 years, making it more unsafe... I would advise the VVD, Mr Bosman, to reconsider that strategy. That's exactly my plea. If you're willing to do that, we can find out which Defense Department is one of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u71	Clear. Mr Bosman, concluding, brief, pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u72	So Mrs Karabulut has no idea what her defense organization should look like. So that's clear. It's not "my" lobby. I think that's inappropriate. There's a lobby. We know that. It's just going on. That goes for a lot of things. There are also NGOs, human rights organisations and all kinds of other organisations lobbying.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u73	You had to put it right, because you were addressed personally. Very briefly, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u74	I'm glad to hear the VVD is moving away from the lobby. I wonder if that will lead to less, more or no conversations. Two: I have just outlined our plans to Mr Bosman. Just as Mr Bosman will have to show in his next election programme how many billions more he is going to spend on all these beautiful sintering Klaa plans, so will we.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u75	Perfect, thank you. Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u76	First of all, I think that a submarine is not something to go to war for years, but to prevent war or insecurity in the Netherlands. People also have a lock on the door, not to beat people up, but to make sure no one comes in that you don't want there. That's the first thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u77	Unless you're gonna attack somewhere else...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u78	No, Mr Van Helvert has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u79	I would also ask Mrs Karabulut whether she agrees with CDA and many colleagues here on submarines. We have asked questions about this, which still have to be answered. If we make such a big investment for the safety of the Netherlands, it is important that this can be an advantage for naval construction in the Netherlands. There are about 10,000 people working directly in the Navy building in the Netherlands. Does Mrs Karabulut agree with me that this can be considered in the best interest? Or does Mrs Karabulut think that, as we did with the mine sweepers, we should buy boats off the shelf somewhere abroad, which then do nothing for employment in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u80	I am not going to defend or represent the interests of the military-industrial complex, whether national or international. I don't want expensive submarines. I would very much like us to release those structural billions for our teachers. I'd like us to invest more in the police, in our domestic security. So this isn't my choice. This is your choice. In the end, I wonder what you, as a member of a government party...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u81	What Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u82	What Mr Van Helvert did indeed apologize. I am therefore curious to see what Mr Van Helvert and the rulers are going to do. It is yours and my taxpayers' money, and that of the citizen, of course. I wonder how much tax money you're willing to pay for your national or international military industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u83	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u84	Then there's my follow-up question. If these submarines will not be able to do their job, the police officers or teachers you want to invest in will not even be able to do their job in the Netherlands. So it's important that we have them. It's also a fact that they're there. You're a serious party. You know we're going to buy submarines. Then there is a fair question for you: do you think that employment and knowledge in the Netherlands should also grow, or do you find...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u85	Find Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u86	...that we should buy them abroad?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u87	I have tried to explain that we are seeing another defence organization and another security strategy in mind, which brings us real security. I would like to point out that by investing many billions more in the public sector, many more jobs will be created.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u88	I am building on Mrs Karabulut's last sentence, namely that there will be a lot of jobs in the public sector. That's only for one or two years. The submarine money is incidental. Of course, that will never solve the crisis in the public sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u89	Are you going to ask a question yourself?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u90	The question is: how does Mrs Karabulut intend to resolve the structural crisis in the public sector with funds from submarines that are occasional?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u91	That money really goes on for a couple of years. There's also money from the JSF. But we have a whole electoral programme, and we have, among other things, tabled an alternative budget together with GroenLinks, including a bank tax. You can look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u92	I understand that, but the way you presented it, it was as if you could actually buy teachers with submarines. I can imagine that this is an interesting frame in itself, but it is, of course, not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u93	It's not a frame. It's definitely true in part. Let your imagination speak. That's what it's about, making the imagination speak and thinking out of the box, as Mr Bosman put in somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u94	Well listened!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u95	Yes, you should listen to yourself more often and play less Santa Claus. Mr. Chairman. It brings me to the last and most important point, the staff. There's a huge staff shortage. There is flirting with a foreign legion and military service. Last weekend, the Commander of the Armed Forces introduced the Shell-flex military. Anything but the staff in the first place. Would it not be an idea to better treat the staff, both those employed and those who have left the service and who have become ill by working for Defence, especially financially? I was just talking about the military in Afghanistan. Meanwhile, the Dutch government is threatening to expel the Afghan interpreter Farhad. He has worked for many years for the Dutch military on mission in Afghanistan. Are the Secretary of State and the Minister prepared to work for him, just as the petition of 33,000 other Dutch people asks, and to prevent him from being sent back? Prevention of expulsion is a form of good personnel policy. Wouldn't it be better if the Minister focused on good personnel policy in the coming years rather than continuing to haunt NATO? I have an amendment to make more resources available for staff, for better working conditions and for higher wages. I'd like a response to that. Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State smelled freedom last week when the JSF shot down our airspace. That's what she reported on Twitter. The JSF is not resistant to fire-fighting foam, but the Secretary of State wants to buy 9 more fighter jets for over 1 billion on top of the order of 37 fighter jets for a billion or five now. Why is it spending EUR 1 billion on this? Why should these fighter jets, contrary to the wishes of the majority of the House of Representatives, also carry nuclear weapons? Those nuclear weapons give me the utmost sense of freedom. Those weapons of mass destruction are a threat to humanity and are targeting us. I would experience freedom if we didn't buy those nine extra fighter jets, but put that billion into a fund for all victims of toxic substances, such as chromium and burnpits, as well as traumatized veterans, trainings, transparency and civilian casualties in the ministry. I'd like a response. Finally, Mr President. Years ago, a VVD minister at the helm began to make substantial cuts in Defense. What was left out then was a more modest level of ambition. Everything had to go on. We had to keep playing with the big boys in the highest spectrum. The result is now well known. It is time to end this failing strategy and make fundamental choices. That's not easy, but it's necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u96	Thank you. Then Mrs Belhaj of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u97	So, chairman, all the other roommates and people who might have thought after last night: quite interesting, Defence, and certainly the House of Representatives and all the Defence spokesmen and, of course, the directors, but I am less concerned about that. I'm not talking about the other MPs either, but I thought I'd make a little bridge, so everyone would think, "Oh, yeah, she's gonna tell us something." Mr. Chairman. In front of us is the budget of the Ministry of Defence for the year 2020. Defence has chosen the title "Repair and Modernise." As far as I'm concerned, that's an appropriate credo, because Defense has come a long way. For the past 30 years, there's been substantial cuts at the Department of Defense. The knife went in so deep that we have to recover to this day. The low point was perhaps the year 2014, in which Defense had to do it with 3 billion less than we have today. Since then, huge steps have been taken. For example, in the government agreement, the government has chosen to invest 1.5 billion a year in Defence. This spring, another 162 million were added in structural terms. All of these are means to put the base back in order, so that the armed forces can again fulfil the constitutional tasks. With this much-needed investment, a modern and versatile military force must be able to carry out the constitutional tasks mentioned above. Mr. Chairman. This is urgently needed, because today's world is changing at a rapid pace. The increasing instability in regions close to Europe shows that the nature and extent of all threats can vary at a rapid pace. This requires more than a future-proof military force. The rapidly changing world of tomorrow also presents us with strategic choices. Geopolitically, Europe is forced to do more for its own security. I have submitted an own-initiative paper on this this year. Once again, we believe that it is time for Europe to be able to defend itself. What good would it be if that first step, if the Commissioners and the European Commission were to be complete, would eventually be to call for a European military headquarters. Mr. Chairman. With extra money alone, Defense can't recover and become modern. A large part of how the organisation functions lies in its culture, its organisational culture. I hope we're beyond that, too. We discussed the incorrect information of the Chamber until late yesterday, but another matter that has been raised in the background over the past few days is the whistleblower case referred to by Mrs Karabulut of the SP. That's the case of former pilot Victor van Wulfen. Mr Van Wulfen was right in his complaint about the deliberately wrong notes made at the time in his file by a doctor of Defense. Mr Van Wulfen was accused by a doctor of having a psychiatric condition, something that should never have been in his file, because it was simply not true. Maybe you can let yourself understand what it's like as a doctor of the organization where you work, after a personal conversation independently decides to include in your personal file that you have a psychiatric condition. The medical disciplinary board therefore condemns the doctor concerned and reprimands him for his medical carelessness. Mr. Chairman. I think that is a very bad way of doing things. How can a doctor, someone with a trust function, so much harm the trust of a person who comes to him? The reason why I address it today is that I was on the committee then, coincidentally with Minister Hennis. I can still see any questions the Minister could say about it. That was difficult, of course, because the case was still going on, but she could say: it's finished, it's fine, it's done. That's why I thought it was important to name it today. Because it's something you can't imagine and you think it only happens in a movie. That brings me to a question to both directors. They've both made a change in their own way, let me put it this way. But if you make a positive change and everyone points out that working in a safe environment is important in a broad sense, then something has to happen and... And this is something like that. I don't want people thinking, okay, so it could happen that you're seeing a doctor who does something like that in your file. I would like the rulers to be aware of this and to respond to it. How do they want to deal with that? Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the investigation of abuses by the Gibels Committee. I asked in the aftermath of this valuable investigation to look at all the lingering things as well. Mr Deetman has now started working with his committee in April of last year, but I would like to know whether the Secretary of State can report on this in the interim. I realize that it is not about that, but I can, of course, ask the Secretary of State if she would like to make a call and if there is anything to be said about the time that the committee needs to do so. Could she perhaps say something about the size of a number of dossiers, so that we have an indication of what is going on? Mr. Chairman. When the time comes, we need to be able to deploy our people to the Defense Department. Then we must be able to count on them and vice versa they must be able to count on a professional defence organisation. After all, the most important thing is that Defence is rich. This applies both to those who are now employed by the Defense Department and to those who have previously worked for the Defence Department at risk of their own lives. They did so for peace and security and often at risk for their own lives. This means, for example, that we must give our veterans the appreciation and recognition they deserve. Mr. Chairman. D66 takes the government's duty of care towards old-timers high. So it hurt that I had to read that dozens of veterans with mental distress live homeless on the street. I indicated earlier in the legislative consultation that for D66 a government that turns its back on people who have been at risk for their own lives for peace and security is truly indigestible. Mr. Chairman. Recognition and appreciation are sometimes in small symbolic matters like wearing your uniform. Sometimes it goes deeper and asks for more, for example psychological and social help. That should be self-evident. That is why I asked earlier in connection with the many requests made by Mr Kerstens about the walk-in houses. Is it possible to investigate whether special assistance can be offered in the walk-in homes which are now in the Netherlands and which are now under municipal responsibility? Mr. Chairman. Appreciation and recognition also apply to those who have contributed to the security of our military and the success of our missions at risk for their own lives. They, too, deserve our support and protection. I am talking about interpreters, people who, at some point, are in direct and personal danger because they have previously contributed to the success and security of our military. I am referring, for example, to the Afghan interpreters. D66 firmly believes that this vulnerable group of people deserves protection and support when he asks for asylum. Why is there still no structural regulation for these people to date? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. I cannot separate the poor handling of interpreters from the personnel policy in the defence sector: putting structural problems at risk as an incident and thus also putting at risk the reputation of the Netherlands when it comes to international missions. My specific question to the Minister is: what exactly is the arrangement for interpreters? Can you send this to the Chamber? Do you agree with me that it is time for structural, sound policies rather than for interpreters to be seen as an incident? I remember asking the Minister in the oral question whether a family had already come to the Netherlands in the meantime. I think that this has been successful, and I think that it is fantastic, but the important thing now is that there is a form of policy. There are all kinds of new individual situations that I would like to ask for plenary debates on, but I do not really think that is the way. I would therefore like to know whether the Minister has already had a serious discussion with her JenV colleague on this matter. Mr. Chairman. I would like to say a little more about personnel policy in the defence sector, namely modern employership. This calls for more than just fine working conditions on paper, although I am incredibly pleased that the Secretary of State has managed to conclude the collective agreement. That's what needed to be done. There are currently 8,200 vacant functions and those are just the vacant features that have been published. So the actual numbers are much higher. Moreover, the recent letter you sent to the Chamber shows that the Marines are running away massively. What does this say about moving the Marine Station to Vlissingen? Why aren't there any buttons being cut? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. As far as staff policy is concerned, I have already advocated increasing the age of applications and referring to the motion which has been broadly supported. From this point of view and following the statement made by the Secretary of State, I would once again like to urge the trade unions, and also the Secretary of State, to make a real haste about this. It would be incredibly sinful if this trajectory would last five years and end up in the total hope of all aspects that need to be done. The other day, someone I didn't expect to see said to me: I'm way too old to apply to the DOD. Then I thought, "That's a shame to me." This person could be very suitable............................................................................................................................................................................................................ I think that's just a shame. That's why I'm just gonna ask you again. Mr. Chairman. I see my time is running out. I would ask that the time I had indicated for the second period be allowed to be used in the first period. Mr. Chairman. I've explained it several times, but I think it's important to do it here too. I would ask you to pay more attention to diversity in the armed forces. I think it is a matter of principle that you seek to reflect Dutch society. But there is also a greater urgency. Everyone comes up with all kinds of wild ideas about how to solve the staff shortage, but at the same time it is so minimal. What are we doing with each other? There are so many young men and women with bicultural backgrounds. They may not have learned from home how beautiful it can be to serve in the Dutch armed forces. They're just not here. I would like to stress once again that I hope that the Secretary of State will have good news in a year's time and that it may be 50%/50%. Mr. Chairman. A modern and future-proof Defence Organization should not only have staff who are adequately trained for the task, but also have excellent equipment and a modern wage building, and is a leading organisation where the new generation also likes to work. A modern military force is also a military force that will no longer depend on dirty, grey fuels in the future. In concrete terms, by 2030, we will be at least 20% less dependent on fossil fuels and half our military compounds will be run with sustainably generated energy. I'd like the Secretary of State to say again that she agrees with me. I would very much like it not to be: yes, we have gotten a lot of money and we have a lot of things to do, and now we have to find a pot somewhere for climate. Actually, I don't think that's what this time of year is anymore. It is a credit to Mr Van Helvert to think so actively about how more money can be sent to the armed forces. But to say "get that out of that climate pot," I think it's a little... In the regular business and with all the opportunities that lie ahead, should it be possible to make these investments now? At the beginning you have a bit higher costs, but in the longer term those costs will be reduced. I therefore see the review of the Defence Note as an appropriate time to find a financial translation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u98	Thank you. Was that your contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u99	No, not quite.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u100	Okay. First a brief question and a brief answer from Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u101	A word about the proposal on how to deal with the big problem in the Defense Department, namely the real estate sector. When Mrs Belhaj said "get it out of the climate money pot," that sounded somewhat derogatory. That's not the point. Climate funding has been made available under different conditions. At the moment when the DOD's real estate challenges meet those conditions, isn't there anything wrong with using the climate money for that Defense issue? Does Mrs. Belhaj agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u102	I don't know all the conditions that have been set. Of course, I am not going to say that I am against it, but you are suggesting that there is no money now, so it has to come from there. Then I think, "Why isn't there any money?" There is a lot of money. Five clear choices have been made by these two directors about what they want to invest that money in. I understand. It's clear what that's about. I find your plea a little painful. I'm like, "Oh, boy, are we gonna be so frugal right now?" You say, "Well, we'll have to get that money out of there." I know the CDA thinks this is important, too. I would therefore like you to support me and that the directors are actively working on everything that is possible to have that money integrated into the Defence budget, or if possible through the climate funds. That's good, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u103	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u104	There's nothing economical about it. I want to put an extra tool in the cabinet coffin. We want to spend a lot of money in the Netherlands to make real estate more sustainable. Defense has a lot of real estate and has 300 million a year short, or 6 billion in the next 20 years, to deal with that. Surely it is a very nice investment, a win-win situation, to use the 300 million in climate money as a very significant part of the climate goals in the real estate of the Defense Department? I think even D66 should agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u105	A brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u106	That sounds like a very interesting idea, but it's not just the real estate. You also need to ensure in your procurement rules that there are procurements that have less consumption. You also need to make your compounds sustainable. It also comes down to making a concrete plan in which you put in when you want to do something and what it costs. We don't have that right now. If we get that, the real estate can be included as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u107	Thank you. Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u108	Mr President, concluding. We would not be D66 if we did not take advantage today of laying down a new subject here that is about the future. Mrs. Bruins Slot has already done that once. It's about space. Mr Bosman pointed out that cyber is really very important. That's right. It is a good thing that extra investment is being made in this. The bad news is that the next new challenge is already further ahead. A military force for the future is also prepared for the many processes on earth that depend on satellite information and communication. The armed forces of the future are aware of the risks involved and take the necessary measures. In future conflicts, satellites are often expected to be targeted. If they fail or if their information is not reliable, they can create major social problems. Are we prepared as a military force for this? That is my question to the Minister. Does the armed forces invest enough? Is the military equipped for these kinds of challenges, or are we dependent on others? I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u109	Our partnership went so well. She said Mrs. Belhaj would listen better. We need to do more than that. "Another domain where we can generate impact power is space. Space, in Dutch." That's literally from my text.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u110	That can mean two things: either the text wasn't that interesting, or I was distracted by something else. Let's just stick with the last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u111	I would like to ask Mrs Belhaj the following. We have been working together for years to increase transparency and openness, be it civilian casualties or covert operations. For example, last year we organised a hearing together and I recently made two proposals for a better information position for the House of Representatives on secret operations. Unfortunately, you did not support this proposal. I don't know why, but I made a new proposal. I asked if the Minister would give his consent and cooperate if we were to ask if soldiers could be invited to a hearing in the House of Representatives. In any case, this is how we can start improving our information position. Could that count on your party's support?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u112	I certainly find that an interesting proposal, because it is now a bit double. Military people, like all other civil servants, are not allowed to talk to politicians in principle. Now we have some kind of crazy system that some soldiers are talking to us, so you can use that information, but other colleagues don't have that information. There are military members of all kinds of political parties, so there is also contact. So I would also say for that: just be open in it. Military are part of society. They find something, they can talk about how they see things.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u113	I'm glad to hear that. The crazy thing was that someone who is no longer in service and even publishes about covert operations was refused permission. So it's much worse than what you're saying, that it's military service. But I agree with you. My proposal is: Minister, cooperate. I'm glad I can count on your support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u114	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u115	Mr President, I always like to finish things. Otherwise it's so cold.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u116	Yes, but you end up in warmth. That's both yours.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u117	Then I would like to say that I have concluded my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u118	Mr Kerstens of the Group of the Party of Labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u119	Mr. Chairman. I do not have much speaking time tonight, but I would like to begin by expressing a word of thanks and appreciation to the people of the Royal Marechaussee who took action at Schiphol tonight. It only shows that she and their colleagues in the other aid and security services are always ready for our security. In one of my first defence debates, I said that I had never talked about culture as much as I had been since I became a spokesman for Defence. That hasn't changed. Last week we got a look at the culture at the officer training of the army, the KMA. It appears to be an ideal breeding ground for abuses. If you're not in on it, you're not really in on it as leader of tomorrow. That is not going to change if you let tomorrow's leaders train and guide them by today's leaders who have grown up in the same culture. Is the Minister prepared to break that pattern by assigning people from outside to a few crucial places, for the guidance of cadets? So that's about people who aren't infected with that culture. And is the Minister also prepared to continue to ask me to open an external hotline for complaints about social security before? So far, such hotlines have always produced significantly more reports than when people have to knock on the door to the Defense Department themselves. We all know why. I've been pushing for more money for a decent collective agreement for the people of Defense, because that's what they deserve. That extra money has finally come and the new collective agreement has come. Late and after a process that has not increased people's confidence, but now there is. As a first step, because more are needed. A new, modern function and reward building could be such a step. That's gonna cost extra money, especially if the new building wants to make Defense a more attractive employer. And I have to. However, there is no additional funding in the budget. Do, I say, because otherwise you run the risk of the beginning of trust disappearing like snow before the sun. If it's going to take much longer than it has been agreed and if it's going to be a lot more hassle again, because you haven't spent enough money on it. Mr. Chairman. The new collective agreement does not mean that the back door is already closed, quite the contrary. For example, many 30s and 40s leave the Department of Defense. That sucks, often for themselves, but also for the Defense Department. They are people who have invested a lot and who can do a lot, often have even more to do and can be years of added value. You can't just replace it with someone who comes in new. What do our rulers think about giving people in certain functions a serious or a more serious stay bonus? For example, I call Marines and Commandos. The emptiness among them continues; we are approaching a critical point. Other countries have such a bonus and it works, I hear. I think the defense should take unorthodox measures to get to strength, no, what do I say, stay on strength! That does not happen automatically, not when I listen to the Commander of the Armed Forces, who has already philosophized twice in the newspaper about re-establishing the duty of attendance, and not when I look at the filling rates that remain at 80%. That is far too low to be able to do what we need to do, especially when we see that we will have to put even more on the mat in NATO. I have said before that if we are not careful in the future, the question of our vision, our mission and how we are going to carry it out will not so much be determined by what is necessary and what we want, but by what we can still do in terms of people. Mr. Chairman. There's more money going to the DOD. That's what I'm supposed to do. What we also see is that the Defense Department doesn't always manage to turn that money into people and resources. Almost no material project reaches the original planning, from the submarines, to the M-frigates to the marine barracks. I actually want a smart-formulated plan in which I can see how much money is needed when it is spent, at what rate and at what rate, and in which I can see what we can deliver and how ambitions become reality. If we can convert the money into people, material and capabilities so difficult now, how can we do that if we are moving towards that 2%? Moreover, as far as the way in which equipment is to be tendered is concerned, we often talk about the French, but I would also like to point out, as Mr Bosman has said, to Germany, where it is always the case to stop all European procurement. I ask the Secretary of State to follow suit. The opposite is happening around the real estate of the Defense Department. The Minister is running out of money for investment in this area. That's why money goes from equipment to real estate. Where's the DOD gonna feel that? Is the material side so spacious in his jacket that more can be done there, for example for the staff? I'm gonna finish up. I do this by calling attention again to a few groups that I have spoken about before, starting with the people of the Marechaussee. They guard our safety, including here and at Schiphol. Can we now agree that those decent raincoats, which I mentioned earlier, are common at the end of this year, for example? Last year the Secretary of State reported that it should be possible to settle quickly. It hasn't happened yet, but it has to. Then the chrome-6 victims. How long must the suffering of these people, who have been bullied for years by their employer, so Defense Department? In my view, now that the money released for the people in question is far from being spent, I propose that a gesture be made to them. Don't let it be a long shot, if only because those people don't have it anymore, literally. Solve this as you might expect from a good employer. That's what the DOD wants to be, isn't it? I'm coming to the federal walk-in houses. I understand the Minister doesn't want municipalities to sit back when she says, "I'll take care of it all." Also, I understand she's not in the mood for a generic arrangement. So let's see where and when walk-in homes get into trouble and then deliver customization. Two weeks ago, I visited our people in Afghanistan with a number of colleagues. Men and women of armed forces and police are doing very important work there in dangerous conditions, for our safety and for our children's safety. I have a lot of respect for that. I thank them for that, even from this place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u120	Thank you. Then there is Mr Voordewind of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u121	Mr. Chairman. 75 years of freedom is not self-evident. In the year 2020, we will consider in detail the fact that we were liberated 75 years ago. We were liberated from a tyrannical foreign domination. Since then, we have been living in peace and security for 75 years. That's something to be very grateful for. I also express that gratitude towards our military. But it's not something that's self-evident at this time. NATO and the US are our main allies for peace and security, especially for a relatively small country like the Netherlands, but these guarantees are no longer self-evident. President Trump is right to ask for greater contributions from EU Member States and a NATO member, Turkey, to be a great risk to our own security. Our most loyal ally against ISIS was driven out, allowing IS to group again and probably IS-fighters to go uncontrolled towards the Netherlands. The European Union has also ensured peace and security in recent decades. But this union is also under tension. We know that the United Kingdom may want to get out and that other countries, in Eastern Europe, do not really contribute to stability when it comes to violations of the values of the rule of law. Sureties we trusted aren't so sure anymore. That is why I come to a number of points of interest on behalf of the Christian Union, which I would like to stress to the rulers. Firstly, the Defence Equipment Budget Fund. Each year, the Christian Union also insists on the restoration of basic readiness. That is also the reason why D66 and the Christian Union together argued for the Defence Equipment Budget Fund last year. I am therefore pleased that the relevant legislative proposal is now before us. This fund should help to prevent the defence budget from falling prey to drastic cuts as easily as before. I hope the law will be passed soon. Then there are the strategic choices concerning the submarines. The restoration of our defense demands and demands that we make strategic choices. But when it comes to new submarines, those choices take a long time. The B letter about the submarines would come first this spring and then around the summer. It is now November and the letter is still not there. What's going on, I'm asking the Secretary of State. What are the reasons for this long delay? Strategic choices for the Christian Union are about the greatest possible involvement of Dutch industry, not only about the economic interests of that industry, but also to preserve its own knowledge and capacity for the future. Because they keep threatening to disappear. Does the Secretary of State agree with me on that point? The Chamber adopted a motion by Mrs Bruins Slot at the beginning of this year. This motion instructs the Cabinet to accommodate the design, development, construction, maintenance and final direction of the submarines within the so-called golden triangle. It seems to me that this motion gives a clear direction to the process leading to the B letter. Then what is the problem, I ask the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u122	Mrs Belhaj, short and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u123	I would like to know whether Voordewind thinks that there should be a deadline for decision-making, so when the letter comes to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u124	I think it would be very good if the Chamber urged the Secretary of State to send the B letter to the Chamber as soon as possible. I really hope that will actually happen within a few weeks. We've waited far too long for that. I'm impatient with you. Mr. Chairman. Does the Secretary of State consider it important that, especially after the choice for the French mine hunters, the submarines should now be chosen, using Article 346, for the option that guarantees the greatest Dutch involvement in development as well as intellectual property? Then the F-35; from the sea weapon to the air weapon. The first F-35 has now arrived. Last year I expressed my deep concern about the Turkish role in the F-35 project. The Chamber then adopted my motion calling for us not to become dependent on the Turks for the engine maintenance of the F-35. We now know that Turkey has been suspended from the international project. A wise decision, because Turkey has bought Russian anti-aircraft missiles. I ask the Secretary of State what will happen next to the parts of the project that would be carried out in Turkey. In any case, it is already clear that our share of costs is now going to increase. The Netherlands is a level 2 country in the F-35 project. Wouldn't it make sense, at least, to bring a substantial part of the work done in Turkey to the Netherlands? Does the cabinet want to make a commitment to this? (NL) Mr President, then there is the question of Turkey. I would like to thank the Minister for calling in NATO ministerial for the utmost involvement of the Kurds in a negotiation process on the resolution of the conflict. It also insisted that Article 5 of the NATO Treaty should not be invoked now that Turkey has launched the attack in Syria. I commend her for that. However, I have not read in the report what the reactions of the other Member States to both calls were. Can the Minister say a few things about that? Then there is the security zone advocated by the German Defence Minister, a security zone in the Turkish-Syrian border area under international mandate. Especially the latter is crucial, because we do not want Turkey to occupy that strip in Syria and threaten the Kurds. Anything better than Turkish domination in that area. Has the Minister therefore supported this plea from her colleague? It could be a positive step to put an end to the current situation and create more security, but also to ensure that the refugees return safely. I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. Mr President, I will conclude. If we want to live in freedom for much longer than 75 years, we must be prepared to defend it. For that, we will have to restore and strengthen our defences. In this endeavour, the Christian Union wholeheartedly supports the rulers. We also wish them God's wisdom and strength. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u125	Thank you. Then Mr. Stoffer of the Political Reformed Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u126	Mr. Chairman. Today is a special day, not only because we are dealing with the defence budget, but also because today is Thanksgiving for Crop and Labour. Unlike tonight, I was lucky enough to attend a service this afternoon in my own church church in Elspeet; an oasis of peace so between all those Defence debates. I hope that at least today the Minister has found a moment of peace, because that is what I wish her. But when I sit there under such a sermon and hear the words of Jesus, it always makes me long for a new heaven and a new earth. Why? On such a new earth where there is no more war and where there is peace, you no longer need defence. But yes, as long as we live on this earth, the SGP likes to cooperate in a strong defense. In this respect, we will try to play our part in this budgetary process. That is why I would like to review a number of issues, Mr President, and I will start with the F-35. Last week, like Mr Bosman, as well as Mr De Vries and the Minister and the Secretary of State, I was present at Leeuwarden Airport at the reception of the first F-35. Mrs. Diks, you were there? I didn't hit you, I apologized! Good of you to come! I hear all these noises, but I'm not gonna respond to them, Mr. Chairman. It has to be an interruption first. Then let's talk about it. Anyway, I was very impressed by the strength, versatility and also the intelligence of that fifth-generation yacht plane. Let me say straight away: we as SGP are very happy with the purchase of nine additional devices. Last year our motion was dissuaded and voted away, but in such a year there has been a lot of clear insight. The question we do have at the same time is whether that number of 46 is sufficient to achieve the Dutch goals of staying safe, bringing safety and connecting safely. Would the Secretary of State consider the possibilities for purchasing a larger number of F-35s at a decreasing unit price in the future? Mr President, my next topic is the NATO standard. Not only the SGP, but also this Minister and Secretary of State have a warm heart for Defence. When I see their passion, I'd almost say they're on fire. But I think I've also set Mrs. Diks on fire, so I'm just gonna stop. For the DOD, that's what I'm talking about, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u127	We know your reputation, Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u128	MeToo is everywhere, you think. I was curious. You are almost saying here in a sense that you fully agree with the purchase of these nine additional F-35s and that you can even imagine that more are being purchased. Do you have cover for that yet? What, for example, are you not going to do in education, with the police, with the Municipal Fund or with all kinds of other matters?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u129	Not yet. Let me just be clear about that. Mr. Van Helvert said that all parties wanted to cut back on Defense in the past, but certainly never the SGP. I dare say so. We also believe that the 6 billion or 7 billion for the defence sector should be added to the future. I also hear the Minister and our Prime Minister say that this is going to happen. That comes in future budgets and not in this budget. So I don't have cover yet, but it's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u130	It's actually a bit of a gratuite pronunciation, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u131	No, definitely not. It's thinking about getting ready for the future. In addition, I am now primarily talking about research. In the case of an investigation, there does not need to be more cover than the cover for the investigation itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u132	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u133	Mr. Chairman. It has been said before, but the SGP is also pleased that by 2020, Defence will have 3 billion more to spend than five years before. I think that's a compliment to this coalition. It is very important, but there is still a downside to it, because from 2023 onwards, the defence budget as a percentage of gross domestic product is falling again. I would like to stress that this is a problem, at least in the light of the Turkish invasion of Northern Syria. Do European NATO countries have the capacity to act themselves in such a situation, or are we too dependent, in particular, on the United States? This is not a rhetorical question. I am genuinely curious about the response of the cabinet, especially in the new situation we have experienced over the last few months. It is clear to the SGP. We need to work on our strategic autonomy and we need to take decisive steps towards that 2% of gross domestic product, because a strong military force is not a luxury, but just a bitter necessity. Mr President, then the people. DOD wants to be a good employer, but there are still a lot of challenges. How do we keep our soldiers inboard and prevent an evacuation? First of all, it is crucial that the Defence Department provides a market-based wage building. In ordinary human language: just a good salary with something extra where appropriate. The goal must be that the man or woman in uniform and his or her family can simply be satisfied. The fact is that a renovation of the payroll building is incredibly expensive. There are probably hundreds of millions of euros involved. Is this money actually being released, and if so, how do we, as a Chamber, really get a good understanding of the costs and, above all, of the progress? Speaking of renovations and buildings, when will there be clarity about the move of Marines to Vlissingen? All kinds of consultations are in a final phase, according to this week's letter. That's nice, but the marines, the municipality of Doorn, where I visited this week, but also our Zeeland friends are now very curious about a concrete spot on the horizon. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State where that dot is. Mr. Chairman. Finally, good employership includes the best care for victims of PTSS. Fortunately this is certainly not a blind spot, but I think there is still something to win. I am thinking of private initiatives that really make sense for the well-being of PTSS victims, for example the organisation Special Forces in Business, set up by Mr Van Ingen, or that ex-military shepherd who was allowed to become a sheepherd on his old army base. Impressive initiatives, very nice. But we can see that sometimes the threshold is rather high to get support from the Defense Department. Would Defense want to better support private initiatives in conducting research into the effectiveness of their approach? Because that's what it takes to get these subsidies in the end. Who do they have to contact with the Defense Department for that? I'd like a response from the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. Then the equipment. Taking steps towards the NATO standard is necessary for our strategic security and for good employership, but also for investments in good equipment. In the national plan, the cabinet sets out a number of priorities, such as the already mentioned purchase of those nine additional F-35s, but also better support for special forces and reinforcements in the digital domain. To what extent are all priorities actually implemented? The SGP notes that, unfortunately, material readiness remains. There are problems with spare parts and ammunition supplies, and the air force's capacity, including helicopter deployment, is very limited. What is the commitment to improving this as soon as possible? Also in the area of IT, not everything is quite as it should be. That's an understatement, I'm just saying. Information-driven action is becoming increasingly important. Brand new weapons like the MQ-9 Reaper and the F-35 are gathering more and more data. Air Force Commander Dennis Luyt even called the F-35 a flying laptop last week. But because the supporting IT systems are still hopelessly behind, it is only a question of whether all this information can be used at all. This requires a good and secure IT base system: the GrIT. I think that's where the shoe is. My question is, therefore, when should GrIT really be operational and what specific budget is included? Mr. Chairman. A few final remarks and then I will go to a conclusion. Then I'm gonna quit. Everything is being done in the field of European defence cooperation, but it is really not clear to me which budgets are involved. Will the Minister provide structural insight into the EU-flagged defence cooperation budgets from the 2021 budget? To close with a positive note...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u134	It's positive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u135	Yes, actually my whole contribution was positive, but the last thing I would like to say is that SGP is very happy that Defence is working on more and better civil-military cooperation. We've drawn attention to that before. For an example like Front Door I really want to give my compliments. We'd like to see that. I'd say get on with it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u136	Right to the second. The last speaker this evening is Mr Öztürk of the DENK Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u137	Mr. Chairman. The Ministry of Defense sometimes looks like the Ministry of Secret Affairs. The word "secret" appears nine times in the defense budget. Confidentiality is sometimes a necessity, especially when it comes to protecting your people's lives. But secrecy is too often a cover-up in practice. On page 3 of the budget, I see an amount of EUR 10 million under the heading'secret'. Why is this post classified? How can I check, on behalf of the Dutch people, whether these expenditures are sensible and meaningful? What am I supposed to imagine at the secret post? Are we talking about the night vision goggles, coats or pickup trucks sent to the Syrian rebels, or other expenses we're not supposed to know about? Mr. Chairman. The budget also explains only changes amounting to EUR 100 million or more, while ordinary citizens have to justify every euro in their tax returns. Will the defense budget be an inaccessible black box? In our opinion, the DOD needs to get rid of the secrecy story. DENK wants to end this secrecy. How can I, as a Member of Parliament, monitor, under budgetary law, what the government is spending, as the word secret is too common and things are not explained? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. DENK has a consistent story about the Defence budget since it was founded. DENK stands for a Ministry of Defence that focuses on peace and reconstruction, not international bombing sessions for the great powers. DENK doesn't want to stop military and billions in Defense to serve the great powers. DENK stands for: the basis on order, a good equipment and reward for our military and sufficient staff. We do not want expensive prestige projects such as the JSF and the new submarines, not international bombing missions, but an army dedicated to bringing peace and justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u138	I always find it interesting, so I thought I'd just ask today. What DENK always indicates is to be in front of a Ministry of Peace and Reconstruction. I always think, if you're in front of a Ministry of Peace, what exactly do you do? What's that look like? Because they may be military, but they have no weapons, no international interventions, no interventions at all. So what do they do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u139	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u140	So I'm going to explain that now. I think it is good that Mrs Belhaj is listening very carefully to my input now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u141	That's possible, but it was just a very practical question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u142	That's in my story. Sometimes it's also important to be patient. If you're not satisfied afterwards, you can come back and ask me again. There's plenty of time for that. Mr. Chairman. Because after the painful debate we have had on the civilian victims in Iraq, we must dare to ask ourselves the important question: why let us as the Netherlands abuse ourselves for dirty wars? Why do we like the Netherlands do dirty jobs for the great powers? What have we learned from the illegal war in Iraq, which we, as the Netherlands, have participated in? There were no chemical weapons found there, yet we sent soldiers there and deployed millions for it. We must ask ourselves whether our soldiers are being deployed as soldiers for peace and security. Or are our soldiers being deployed as mercenaries? Mercenaries for the interests of multinationals, mercenaries for the interests of the big countries, mercenaries for the interests of the political elite? Trump says it quite honestly: we are in the Middle East just for oil. He literally says keep the oil, keep the oil. So it is not about peace and security in Iraq and Syria, it is about the great interests of large countries. Why do we, as the Netherlands, participate in this? Why is the Netherlands participating in this dirty game for oil from the United States? Why is the Netherlands participating in these political games? Then we choke a country; look at Libya. We have just abandoned that country, because the oil interests are inside, the country is now in turmoil. DENK asks this minister and government to review the role of the Dutch Defence. The Netherlands should not have a role as a mercenary in dirty games. The Netherlands must only use the army to bring peace and security to humanitarian missions. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. DENK also sees nothing in an arms race in which countries forcefully push towards the NATO standard of 2%. For the Netherlands, this would be more than EUR 16 billion. In reality, this is about EUR 11 billion by 2020. This 2% standard was a dead letter for years, but a handful of countries kept to it. But now that Mr Trump is president of the United States, this dead letter has suddenly come to life. As far as DENK is concerned, this undelivered dead letter is quickly carried back to the grave. In November 2020, in exactly one year, there will be presidential elections in the US. Then we will have more clarity about this. Maybe that 2% can get back into that dusty drawer. But...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u143	A question from... Or do you finish it first?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u144	Yes. But the group of DENK finds this 2% standard obsolete anyway. This expenditure standard dates back to the Cold War with the Soviet Union. The Soviet Union has been down for 28 years. At that time, a peace dividend was spoken of. By reducing international tensions, defence expenditure could be considerably reduced. So we also have to lower the 2% standard. I'd like a response from the Minister to this. This 2% standard is not only far too high but also far too general and generic. All countries are treated in the same way. But that percentage doesn't say anything about a country's contribution to peace and security, does it? The DENK Group believes that expenditure contributing to international peace and security should be deducted from this 2% standard. So the organisation of peace conferences, the cost of international dispute resolution and the payment to the United Nations should be deducted from the 2% standard. The same applies to expenditure on development cooperation. In this way, an individual contribution can be calculated for each country. DENK therefore wants a differentiated Defence expenditure standard with a peace discount, just as there is a system of discounts for the EU contribution. I'd like a response from the Minister to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u145	Just a comment on the statement by my dear colleague, Mr Öztürk, that the Soviet Union is long over. That's right. The Soviet Union was one of the reasons for setting up NATO at the time. The developments on the Russian side have not stopped. Certainly on the western side and in the southern district Russia has greatly strengthened. I would also like to mention new submarines, cyber investments and space and military reinforcements. The Russians are equal in that respect and in some cases even stronger than NATO. Has this DENK noticed, too? If so, how can we answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u146	Definitely noticed that. DENK has also said that where European territory, NATO territory or Dutch territory is threatened, action must be taken. But the role that each country assigns to itself is important, Mr. Van Helvert. If you say that the Netherlands must protect itself with fighter planes, then you are not realistic and not fair. This is what DENK says. The Netherlands has many diplomats. We have a lot of international authority. We can use our diplomats and our international authority to create peace. I think that means we can make more peace in the world than buying some F-16s or F-35s.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u147	Rounding, short, pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u148	Then you will be served at your beck and call by this Ministry, because all this is done in the so-called 3D approach, where one D stands for Diplomatic. In that sense, therefore, DENK Defence must support this right away. On the other hand, here's what I'm saying. Looking at Russia and all its reinforcements, where Russia is not even a distant friend or a good neighbour, I would say that with only diplomats at the moment you do not have enough for your eastern border. There are a number of examples that Russia has crossed the border towards Europe, not with diplomats, but with military forces.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u149	Does the CDA really think that we can stop Russia with a few billion more, some planes and some tanks? Be realistic and honest with the Dutch people and say: you cannot stop the Russians. You can stop the Russians by being honest and by not participating in those intelligence actions that we must carry out from great powers and large countries. These submarines are not used for the safety of the Netherlands. They're being deployed for intelligence somewhere else in the world. With this intelligence there is a cyber war going on, which makes us another target for large other countries. So the point is: if you join the great powers as a small country, you can put the people at risk. I therefore call on the CDA Group to be aware of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u150	The CDA is aware of this. That is undoubtedly the case. You continue, you finish your lines, Mr. Öztürk. Yes, Mr. Van Helvert, you will get a question, as you say, but you will answer it tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u151	Mr. Chairman. I come to the next point. The virtual war is cyberspace. I was talking about it last week in the Home Affairs budget. But it actually belongs here just as well. Cyber war is also just war as far as DENK is concerned. The Netherlands does international intelligence and cyber work for the superpowers. In Mali, the Netherlands has been gathering intelligence for five years for the military mission there. The Netherlands distributes information with other countries against its own rules. The Netherlands has also played a crucial role in sabotaging Iran's nuclear programme. According to intelligence sources, the Dutch intelligence agency AIVD helped the Americans and Israelis to infiltrate. In other words, the Netherlands is actually being used by the superpowers to collect intelligence and conduct the cyber war. To make the great powers happy, the cabinet drags the Netherlands into a cyber war, which could put the Netherlands at risk. Who could possibly be the victim of this? The Dutch citizen. Our citizens are the victims of this. They are at risk of being penalised. Unfortunately, the Chamber is not informed about these dark practices. Of course, that's classified again. And then the circle is round again: we have a secret ministry, we are involved in a cyber war, the citizen is the victim, and the minister hardly gives the Chamber any information about this. I think we're ready with cyber war for the Minister to come forward with an article 100 letter before we get involved in that cyber war. When our systems are attacked by other countries, people can't bank for two days. People won't be able to access their records for two days. That's a million- or billion-dollar loss for a lot of citizens. It is therefore important that this cabinet, if the cyber war is to take place, should ask for permission from the Chamber. Finally, I would like to correct something that happened here yesterday. I raised a number of points yesterday. I understand that this has also been misunderstood by quite a few people. I didn't say that our soldiers and our minister killed people knowingly and knowingly. I didn't say that. I would like to emphasise that once again. I saw today that a lawyer wants to take advantage of that and get some soldiers and soldiers to press charges. That lawyer knows it wouldn't work out. I didn't say our soldiers, our soldiers, killed people knowingly and knowingly. What I did say was that people there feel they haven't known for four and a half years what exactly happened. Those words and those emotions of those people may also be expressed here. In doing so, I am trying to correct what I think is misunderstood.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u152	Yeah... Now we have been talking about this until half past midnight yesterday and I feel that if we are going to reopen yesterday's debate now, as a sort of third term of yesterday, we are going to make it half past one. You have now added a few things to your contribution yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u153	I've fixed something.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u154	Actually, I think it's enough. Period. I propose that the people who want to say something about that should do so tomorrow in their own term. I really don't want to repeat yesterday's debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u155	A point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u156	A point of order. Very briefly. Really.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u157	I understand that agreements were made at first, while suddenly we started earlier. We have the defense budget here. I am allowed to interrupt twice in two stages, while it is about an entire budget. Now there is also such a shocking remark, which speaks of a very bad remark from yesterday's law. Because the gentleman is being prosecuted by an attorney, he's suddenly gonna make up for it, while the verdict is definitely done and that several times. And we're still not allowed to say anything. I think that we should actually increase the number of interruptions, and it is a pity that it will become later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u158	Okay, but you made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u159	I would very much like to join in on this. The comments made yesterday by Mr Öztürk were appalling, as Mr Van Helvert said. Many of my fellow Members have spoken about this in this way too. You shouldn't have done that. You take them back, too, or at least nuance them now. I think that is a good thing and I very much agree with the President that we should not go back to the whole debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u160	I agree with that, but Mr Öztürk must realise that if he uses the word'murder' in this house, it is 'premeditated', 'want and knowing' and 'intentionally'. Then just take those words back when you're a big boy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u161	That's not the point. You can see what those words mean in Van Dale. I would like to say once again that I would like to talk to the military who have that feeling about the misunderstanding in order to explain my words yesterday in a good way. All I've done is reflect the feelings of the people there who have become victims here in our Parliament. I'm willing to talk to anyone who wants to talk to me about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u162	Thank you. So far. Well, Mrs. Belhaj, but really short. Mr Öztürk, please stand by the speaker's chair for this is a response to your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u163	I agree with the other comments, but I was waiting somewhere for something to become clear about what kind of military force we'd get, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u164	I thought that question had already been answered in Mr Öztürk's text.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u165	I actually want to say that I do not think that this question has been answered, except that he obviously wants a building with soldiers to whom he can say: you are doing something fantastic. We're organizing peace conferences. We do that without weapons and then hope that there will be a better world. That's actually my conclusion to the story. I listened very carefully, but I wanted to make this point. But it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u166	I don't think you've been listening very carefully. If you had listened carefully, you would not have come up with such ridiculous remarks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u167	You said a few things in your texts. Let's not repeat that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u168	I just indicated how we are in our defense strategy. We've been doing that consistently for four years. You can read in our party program how we want DOD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u169	Great.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u170	You're trying to make a scene here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u171	So much for this evening's debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-8.u172	Tomorrow morning at 10.15 a.m. we will listen to the answers of the rulers.
