ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality. The next item is the 30-member debate on endangered species. I suggest that everyone can interrupt twice at most, preferably in two. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. She speaks on behalf of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Here in the Chamber, we have a debate on endangered animals for the first time since the cabinet took office. It's about time. It is now a little less than a year since I asked for this debate, following the worrying report that nearly 26,000 species are at risk of extinction. And that's probably just the tip of the iceberg. Never before was mass extinction caused by only one dominant species: man. Scientists estimate we're losing dozens, if not hundreds of species per minute. Since the 1970s, animal populations have decreased by a terrifying 60%, and climate change disrupts the fossil balance of the global ecosystem. Meanwhile, jungles make way for plantations, making way for monoculture. Unmissable animals disappear through poaching and overfishing. Mr. Chairman. One of the causes of the decline in species is the criminal trade in animals. I would like to focus on that today, because at the end of May the international Cites Summit will take place. That is where the Minister has the opportunity to stop this trade. On a large scale, animals are killed for their fur, their slaughter teeth, or by trophy hunters just for fun. There are mass removals of animals from the wild, or animals are bred for the tourism industry, after which their body parts are exported as traditional medicine. The Chinese government is lobbying worldwide for the recognition of so-called traditional medicine, with the World Health Organisation's vote at the end of May as a milestone. Already, this industry is responsible for more than three quarters of the illegal trade. Nature organisations warn that the recognition of traditional Chinese medicine will lead to a significant increase in trade in endangered animals. Does the Minister share these concerns? And can she promise that she will ask her VWS colleague to vote against this proposal and lobby for this position within the EU? Mr. Chairman. On holiday a cute lion cub pet, what's wrong with that? In so-called shelters abroad, unconscious tourists are told that these animals are well cared for and eventually deported into the wild. But nothing could be further from the truth. The same lion cub will be shot by a so-called trophy hunter when it has outgrown the cuteness. With a bit of bad luck, his bones are then legally exported to Asia for the traditional medicines I was just talking about. The people who run these shelters are getting sharper and sharper. Sometimes an ethical shelter can't be distinguished from a fake. And Dutch tourists are not aware of the suffering that lies behind this industry. Moreover, every year many young people go to these shelters to work as volunteers. They are being fooled for many hundreds of euros. Why does the government settle for this? Is the Minister prepared to call for a stop on the export quotas of bred animals such as lions within Cites? Is it prepared, like its predecessor, to commit itself to an EU-wide ban on imports of hunting trophies? And can it examine an opportunity for an information campaign...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u3	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u4	... for example in the form of information on the website of the State Department or customs? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u5	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Moorlag on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The messages you're reading are really about being despondent. David Attenborough warns that we are currently in a massive extinction wave when it comes to animal and plant species. Mr President, I see a flash here that I have to finish, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u7	I do that standard with you! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, By the way, congratulations, because it's your birthday today, I understand. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u8	Yes, that's right, Mr. Chairman. I'm supposed to be today's birthday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u9	But you will not get any extra speaking time! Very mean. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There is happiness because of my birthday, but also gloom because of the image that is emerging. Whether you call it natural capital or creation, it is seriously threatened. I believe that an approach can only be found at international level. It is really important that there should be a change in behaviour or attitude. We must also be careful not to point a finger at other countries too much, because it has not been so long since it was also normal in the Netherlands to empty nests and blow animals out of the air. Part of it still does. To study rare bird species, they were blown out of the sky. Seals were shot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u11	I fully agree that we, the Netherlands, should not point a finger at other countries. But the PvdA here pretends to be all right now in the Netherlands, while here too 80% of biodiversity has disappeared. What is Mr Moorlag's view on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u12	I share that concern. I do not want to put it into perspective with the comment I make. But I do have the deep realization that when I went to primary school, what we now regard as precious nature, was still referred to in the atlas as savage grounds that were crying out for extraction. That's the point I want to make. There are still a lot of places in the world where people depend on what nature brings. However, with the enormous growth of the world's population, we are predatory of our nature and seriously affecting biodiversity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u13	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u14	Mr. Chairman. What I want to emphasise is that we need to work together internationally. My question to the Minister is: what are her ambitions in this area? How does it see European cooperation? What contribution does it make to European efforts to make a difference on a global scale and to reverse the trend? As Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen has just said, a conference is about to take place on the basis of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora. What is the Minister's commitment to that conference? What is her own commitment and what is the European commitment? Mr. Chairman. At the heart of my speech is the request to the government to make an effort to reverse trade in all kinds of products of protected species. What commitment does the Minister intend to make to improve the protection of endangered species? In essence, that is my question, because, apart from what we can do with our national policies, that is the point at which we can make a difference at the moment. So let me confine myself to this one key question: what is the Minister's commitment in the international context, in the short term at that conference and in the longer term?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u15	I may have a suggestion for Mr Moorlag. When it comes to the Caribbean part of the Kingdom, the Minister himself has the opportunity to draw up a policy plan, for example for the Coast Guard. Of course, there are all kinds of safety things in there. That is right, but you can also give the order to pay extra attention to the trade in endangered species. What would Mr Moorlag think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u16	I think we should pool our efforts there. You can see that there are already quite a lot of patrols to turn the trade in drugs, for example. A little domestic, I think this can be carried in the same dishwashing water. Mr De Groot is suggesting that I should like to ask the Minister whether she would like to make this commitment. I think this is an important point. In the Netherlands we have secured every piece of land larger than a stamp with a zoning plan, but in the Caribbean we have a lot of natural capital that is threatened. What efforts does the Minister intend to make for the Caribbean?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u17	Mr. Graus, good morning!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u18	Good morning, Madam President. Now my proverbial clog breaks a bit, both by D66 and the PvdA. Mrs Helder, our Justice spokesperson, and I have been asking for years to use policemen in the Caribbean, including from the Netherlands. I have even asked for police officers and Member States to monitor and enforce against animal executioners and illegal trade in animals in relation to endangered animals. No party has supported us in this. What's the big deal now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u19	Count your blessings, I would like to say to Mr Graus. Apparently without any incentive, you will now find allies by your side.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u20	By the way, I should not forget the Animal Party, which always supports everything related to animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u21	Then you've made this clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u22	I'm obviously grateful for that, but I want to make a point because this is always making me worse. If the PVV has been calling for something for years, it hasn't been supported for 13 years, but a few years later the parties suddenly come up with it themselves. Then we'll be tens of thousands of battered animals later. Why? Why always wait to come up with it yourself? Political gain, party politics over the back of defenseless creatures, who are far more sensitive than you, Mr Moorlag, I say through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u23	Mr. Graus, we're just getting started and Mr. Moorlag's birthday is still... I'm fine!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u24	Then I would like to congratulate Mr Moorlag warmly and wish him a blessed new year of life; good luck, hope, love and all that I also occasionally give myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u25	A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u26	Thank you. Mr Graus is not asking so much a question, so I shall leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u27	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Bromet on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u28	Mr. Chairman. A Member of Parliament with the LNV portfolio might get gloomy, even if he is a positive person like me. This certainly applies to such subjects as the extinction of animals. Mr Moorlag mentioned David Attenborough and I wanted to start with that. This morning, it was in the paper that he made a documentary saying that nature is deadly sick. I was a bit ginning with my colleague from the SP, because he wanted to start with David Attenborough as well. So you see how it works in politics and in left-wing cooperation. Thursday night is the BBC documentary of this nature filmmaker on TV. He says in that: once nature determined how we lived and now we decide whether nature can survive. In the preparation of this debate, I asked my collaborator: look for examples of animals with which things were very bad and whose threat has now been reversed by human intervention. Of course it's about international issues. I am very curious to hear the Minister's answer to the PvdA's question as to what she is going to do internationally to save endangered species. But first, I'd like to start with the success stories that exist. There are several success stories when it comes to protecting animals. One of them is the golden lion monkey from Brazil. Because several parts of the rainforest are connected, the number of golden lion monkeys has increased twentyfold since the 1990s. Restoring ecological compounds therefore works and it is also relatively inexpensive. How can the Minister use this approach from Brazil to protect other animals in the Netherlands? Can she say anything about connecting nature reserves in the Netherlands? Another example where we can look abroad to restore our own nature is a project in developing countries in which local fishermen are convinced that areas should be closed down for fishing to re-establish the fish population. You can see that fish populations return and that fishermen can earn their living sustainably with the fish, which is then caught in a sustainable way. How does the Minister use these win-win situations in other areas, for example in the IJsselmeer area, to protect endangered animals and help the local population? How can she use them more often? The third positive example is about the spoonbill. It was almost gone in the Netherlands. In my childhood I never saw him, but I see him now even in the meadows behind my house. This is due to the improved water policy, the reduction of pesticides and the improvement and expansion of the habitat. As a result, the spoonbill in the Netherlands is doing well. How can the Minister implement these measures, which are also good for other species still on the red list? Finally, I have a question for the Minister. Is it aware of the special position it has as a minister of a prosperous country when it comes to preserving nature? In what way is she going to use that position?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u29	Thank you, Mrs Bromet. I now give the floor to Mr De Groot, on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u30	Mr. Chairman. We're destroying the Earth in an incredible way, and we don't have to. There's no way we can't do that. I would just like to quote the clear words of Jan Terlouw, who regularly resound in the D66 group. Animal species die out a thousand times faster than before man entered the earth. There will also be no one in this room who denies that biodiversity is running backwards. It is good that the Minister is committed to getting animals off the red list, but is she also doing enough to prevent new animals coming on? We have scarce financial resources. In today's policy, therefore, we are not going to use it until things are very bad with the last few animals. We've got to get a hell of a lot out of the closet to protect it. Our nature management is aimed at waiting for the animals to come on the red list, but we need to learn how to steer what goes well. That is why the Deltaplan Biodiversity approach is good. This includes doing, learning, doing better, and monitoring whether that is actually going better. The Argus Moth in the peat meadows, pike in the ditch and the tower falcon are examples where this happens. Agricultural nature management is also highly guided by endangered species that Europe prescribes. What policy instruments do we actually have to ensure that general species remain general? Mr. Chairman. Then the Caribbean of the Kingdom. Recently, Wageningen University, on behalf of the World Nature Fund, demonstrated that different types of sunscreen products affect the coral. The Bonaire Island Council has imposed a ban on products containing oxybenzone by 2020 and 2021, but this ban appears to be very difficult to implement. There is no policy at all on Saba and Saint Eustatius. That is why D66 calls on the government to make every effort to assist the islands in the Caribbean part of the Kingdom to protect the coral better. The VROM BES Act gives the Minister the opportunity to act. Is the government prepared to take advantage of this opportunity? This is more effective than the fact that each island is going to formulate policies on its own. They are small but concrete things that we should simply do. Just because it has to and just because it can. With regard to the control of the Caribbean, of the shipping industry there, there is also just a policy plan, in which you can also include that they pay extra attention to the trade in endangered species. Mr. Chairman. In 1992, the United Nations' major sustainability conference took place in Rio de Janeiro. We're dozens of Conferences of the Parties, COP's, further. We make policies, but the destruction of our nature continues. D66 wants concrete measures that we are about to take to prevent further species from dying out. Because once a species is extinct, it never comes back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u31	Thank you, Mr. De Groot. I now give the floor to Mr Graus on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u32	Thank you, Madam President. It has indeed been said in less words by Mr De Groot of D66: the greatest danger for endangered species is the homo sapiens. That is also the most unreliable species that exists. That's not nice, of course. The PVV has been working since the beginning to reduce bee mortality and has been putting circular agriculture on the agenda since we were born. We were often laughed at in the beginning. We have also always said that animal police should also be involved in the overseas parts of the Netherlands and that monitoring and enforcement should also be carried out there, as well as in outdoor areas and nature reserves. The old ranger has to come back here, too. That should have been the animal police if we'd gotten those hundreds of animal policemen. They are now stuck at 180 and they have also become parttimers, but if all that had been fulltimers, we would have just had the field guards back. Then there was much less poaching. Look how much misery we have in our country, but also in the overseas territories. To impose prison sentences, to pick up their laces and to throw them in jail, as far as I am concerned, on water and bread, and then to impose a life-long restraining ban, a life-long ban on keeping animals. The Minister himself also admits that circular farming reduces very large parts of the threat to species. We have said: back to the Dutch manure instead of the chemical fertilizer. Cease with chemical plant protection products, where possible, I must add, because some of them will be needed for the time being as well as with chemical pesticides. Go back to non-chemical weed control. I've tabled a lot of motions for that, too. Those are all PVV initiatives. We warned many years ago that I have been doing so from the very beginning that the ecological system and food system are at the very beginning and that poachers and illegal trade threaten large vertebrates in their survival. If I'm gonna take this place for the elephants, they're gonna say I'm a micromanager and I'm just gonna have to deal with our country, but we're all gonna deal with the animals. Especially when it comes to endangered elephants and stuff, I think we should all work for that. Usually people look away and nobody supports those many motions. That saddens me, because it often has to do with party politics, against my better judgment. We are then ignoring our requests, including the requests I have mentioned for control and enforcement in the outskirts through the animal police and the return of the strict field guards. The PVV is deeply concerned that the current size of elephant populations is only 25% of the normal size. They're mostly killed for their ivory. We want special tracking dogs at Schiphol Airport and other mainports trained to detect parts of illegal animals in the fight against poaching, illegal trafficking and their transit. Finally, this time we would also like to call for trophy hunting and other forms of pleasure hunting, organized from our country, as there is also nothing left of the king of animals and rhinoceros. That is my last sentence, Madam President-in-Office, that the African lion should be included in Appendix 1 of Cites for optimal protection status and a tough approach to illegal trafficking to the Far East, and I shall now proceed to the order of my day.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u33	But...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u34	No, that was a joke, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u35	Oh, I thought so. I need to wake up, too. Now I'm awake.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u36	Good morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u37	Good morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u38	Mr Graus rightly also mentions pesticides. Last year, this Chamber adopted a motion to reduce the unnecessary use of satsumas. The PVV also voted in favour of this. We see again that these meadows are orange again. Does Mr Graus find it strange that we adopted a motion a year ago and that practice has still not changed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u39	I share that entirely with you, Mr. De Groot. That is also Mr. De Groot's fine thing: we are often at odds with each other, but where possible we work together. That is the case now, because I have always supported you in this. That also applies to my entire group. I share that opinion and that concern of yours. I shall refer this to the Minister, because Mr De Groot has no more speaking time in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u40	Okay, then that has been passed on through Mr. Graus again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u41	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u42	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Weverling, on behalf of the CDA. No, on behalf of the VVD. This is gonna go south.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u43	What did you say, Madam President?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u44	Mr Geurts thought: I have a nice colleague. Mr Weverling, on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u45	Sure, absolutely. Good morning, Mr. Chairman. Over the years, more and more research is being carried out into all kinds of species and the situation in which they live. This provides new insights and new information. Some species have it hard and some thrive. In addition, we must realise that we cannot save every animal from death remotely from the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has been committed for years to the conservation and restoration of animal habitats. We work together internationally to combat illegal logging, prevent poaching and combat overfishing. As far as the VVD is concerned, it is important to cooperate with the local population of countries where certain animal species are suffering, as in some cases the inhabitants are responsible for the decline of animal species and their habitats. Can the Minister indicate whether the Netherlands is also committed to this? The government agreement states that illegal imports of protected animals must be stopped. Can the Minister indicate how she is progressing on this dossier and what efforts have been made to achieve this? The fact that the government agreement on illegal imports of protected animals must be stopped is incredibly important, but we must not forget to look at the practice. A few months ago, I was allowed to visit a reception centre of Stichting AAP in Almere. At that time, I saw for myself how important the role they play in combating the illegal trade in wild animals is. Their responsibility is often not only national due to the resettlement of collected animals in other European countries. Can the Minister indicate whether she is already committed at European level to greater cooperation between Member States in the field of wildlife collection? Can it indicate what obstructive regulations are in contact with reception centres? Is the Minister prepared to talk to these reception centres to see how the ambition of the government agreement can be strengthened so that we can continue to fight against the illegal trade in animals? So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u46	Thank you, Mr. Weverling. Before you run away, Mrs. Bromet has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u47	I really think it is very good that Mr Weverling is standing up for nature in other countries, but I would also like to ask him about nature in the Netherlands. What does the VVD intend to do to prevent the threat of animal species in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u48	Yes, Mrs. Bromet. This debate was requested on 12 June 2018 following an article of the NIS. This had its head: Growth of the international list of endangered species. I think that's the item we're talking about today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u49	That's right, but that also includes the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u50	I think we do a lot in the Netherlands in the field of nature. A Deltaplan Biodiversity Recovery has recently been launched. We have a nature policy with all kinds of objectives up to 2027 and we are on the same page to ensure that it is implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u51	I will remind Mr Weverling of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u52	That's good. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Geurts on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u53	Mr. Chairman. We need farmers and agriculture to feed a growing world population. For that, we need a relatively intensive agriculture worldwide with less impact on the environment so that there remains space for nature, because there are great concerns about increasingly endangered animals. For example, we cannot oblige a country such as the Philippines to protect its forests. We can encourage them to do better in agriculture and to leave the forests. This requires our commitment to development cooperation. I think we are good at this with organisations such as the FMO and Agriterra. The Minister states that the decline of species "on the one hand has to do with loss of living environment due to changing environmental conditions, conversion of nature and forest into agricultural areas, urbanisation and climate change, and on the other hand with poaching, illegal logging and trade." To what extent does the Minister see opportunities for changes in the European Union's import and trade policy? Does the Minister consider it necessary for the European Union to focus its market power on improving nature by imposing conditions on environmental and free trade agreements and residue values of imported products? If so, how does the Minister intend to achieve this? Surely it cannot be explained that the use of certain plant protection products is banned in the European Union, while the levels of residue for these products are increased when imported because this cannot harm food safety? Through you, Mr President, I ask the Minister whether it is true that only import products are required for food safety purposes. Mr. Chairman. Not only the European Union applies double standards, one for imports and the other for own cultivation, supermarkets do so. At the moment supermarkets sell themselves with, for example, the new certificate PlanetProof. The CDA welcomes the fact that the market is looking for improvements with, as far as the CDA is concerned, also a better merit for farmers. However, it should not be the case that Dutch or European farmers are subject to higher demands which do not have to be met in the case of imports from outside the European Union, thereby expressing our own farmers on the market. That is why I would like to appeal to the supermarket in order to make it transparent to whom they impose what conditions and to whom they do not. Supermarkets also have a responsibility to ensure that their products are produced in countries outside the European Union with a view to nature and workers. Mr. Chairman. I will therefore conclude with the moral appeal to the supermarkets to use this as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u54	Thank you, Mr. Geurts. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Futselaar on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. He has been mentioned several times: David Attenborough, the creator of beautiful nature documentaries. His message is really: if we do not do something, there will be nothing for me to film at all. He states that we live in the age of great extinction, and the World Wildlife Fund agrees with him. In the last 50 years, 60% of mammals, fish, reptiles and amphibians have disappeared. World history shows that animals have always been extinct in the past, but since the appearance of modern man, this has been 100 to 1,000 times faster. This is due to a number of issues, including climate change, but that is certainly not the only cause we need to address. Mr. Chairman. The ecological footprint of the Netherlands extends far beyond our own borders. For the soy we import for animal feed, many hectares of rainforest are cut, just like for the palm oil we consume, which is found in products ranging from frying fat to cosmetics. This leads to an acute threat to different species. With the orang-utang this may be most visible, but it is certainly not the only one. And then we have tropical hardwood and the consequences of fossil oil extraction. In third countries, we can intervene only to a limited extent, but we can see the consequences of our own consumption behaviour and adapt that behaviour, especially if it allows us to reduce the decline in animal species. Mr. Chairman. We have a specific responsibility because we have one of Europe's central ports of transit. The good results of Operation Toucan in the field of actions against illegal smuggling of endangered plants and animals welcomes the SP. On the other hand, the fact that you have so much result also shows that it is a persistent and structural problem. I would therefore urge that after Operation Pangolin and after Operation Toucan also perform the operations leopard, lemon wall and helmet-nosed hornbird, or whatever names can be chosen. Unfortunately, the list of endangered animals that we can use for that is depressingly long. Mr. Chairman. We owe it to our stand to make sure that the Netherlands is known as the country you have to avoid if you want to smuggle animals. There may still be some missionary work to be done in the European Union. Finally, Mr President. At the end of 2018, in Sharm el-Sheikh, at a conference by parties to the United Nations Biodiversity Convention, one of them agreed to accelerate until 2020 in order to meet the biodiversity targets set in 2010. Because it looks like we're not gonna make it. What I would really like to know from the Minister is what new acceleration measures have been in place since 29 November, when we made that agreement. What kind of new policy is there or what new policy is going to be? Because we're running out of time. I would like David Attenborough to be able to make some ten years of beautiful nature documentary films. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u56	Thank you, Mr. Fuzzler. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I shall suspend the sitting for ten minutes, so we shall resume the debate at 11 a.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u57	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thank you to your Members for this debate. Mr President, my clock is at one minute." Well, I'd like to stop after one minute, that's no problem...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u59	You can do that. You can do that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u60	I'm going to do my best: you're all right. Ready! No, but it's good to hear this. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen indicated that this is the first time that we have talked about this issue since I came here. But that does not mean that we are doing nothing, because the subject is incredibly important. Some of you have already quoted Sir David Attenborough. This was not in my speech, by the way, but I think it shows that on the one hand everyone enjoys and is impressed by our nature, but that precisely because of these images we also see how vulnerable that nature is, and also those species. You yourself have drawn attention to this yourself today. I believe that documentary will be online this weekend or otherwise available. I think I'm definitely going to look at it to enjoy all the beauty there is and what our creation has to offer. But the reason for our debate is not such a beautiful one; let me say that. This is the worrying decline of species worldwide. This has been extensively investigated in particular in mammals. According to IUCN, it is 280 species of mammal, including well-known species such as gorilla and black rhinoceros. I think it is right to look at the causes of the changes in nature, and then look at the policies and questions that your Members have asked about them. The Netherlands is only a small cog in the whole, but we are very committed, also internationally, to seeing what we can do to prevent this kind of decline of species. The main causes for species decline are the loss of habitat, the exploitation of nature and the invasive exotics. In the event of loss of habitat, many factors play a role, such as climate change, but also environmental pollution and urbanisation. Worldwide, the population is increasing, and these people are all going to live somewhere. That puts pressure on the habitats of many species. But also working and eating; everything costs space, and nature is often under pressure. What are we focusing on, including in policy? A number of Members have already mentioned the need for a joint approach to the causes of the decline of species, as well as to encourage positive developments. We do so at many levels, but above all at international level, because it is often also an international issue. Within that international level, the European Union is a spearhead of my policy. Firstly, there are, of course, a number of directives, such as the Birds and Habitats Directives, the Cites Regulations, the Regulation on invasive alien species, all kinds of other framework directives aimed at, for example, improving the living environment, and the Action Plan to combat deforestation and illegal timber trade. In addition, of course, we also pursue climate policy. We are now very much in the process of fulfilling the commitments we have made in the framework of the Paris Agreement. A third point is the Amsterdam Declarations Partnership, which Mr Futselaar had questions about. This is about our role as a Europe in combating deforestation worldwide. Many of the products we use in Europe lead to forest disappearing elsewhere. The Netherlands is chairman of the Amsterdam Declarations Partnership. There will soon be a conference which will also look at what is needed to aim for deforestation-free imports of agricultural raw materials. Globally, the focus is on developing the new post-2020 biodiversity strategy. It is clear that we are not achieving the current targets. So there's got to be a shovel on top. That will also be the new deal for nature. The important point here is the involvement of business in the financial sector. If you want something to change, it is not just the governments that have to step in, but then all parties have to make a contribution to it. That is what we are now shaping in this new biodiversity strategy. The second priority concerns the global commitment to sustainable forest management and the fight against deforestation. A third priority is the Cites Convention, aimed at regulating trade in endangered species and combating wildlife crime. We, as the Netherlands, also make a financial contribution to this. I think I'm indicating what we're already doing here. I'm not saying that's gonna make it all right. There is still a lot to be done worldwide but also in the Netherlands in the field of biodiversity, but I would like to say that we are working with governments and other actors from the Netherlands to combat the decline of species and to support the positive elements. Let me now turn to the specific questions that have been raised. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen has asked a number of questions, including the trade in animals and specifically the issue of traditional medicines from China and what we are going to do about it. What I have understood is that this is indeed a little more on the subject of Mr Van Kooten-Arissen's colleague is that there have been questions to the House about it, but I will also have discussions with my colleague on this, because I fully agree with Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen that the use of traditional medicines should never be an excuse to kill protected animals and to put a huge strain on the survival of these species. I will therefore contact my colleague on this. Her second question was more specifically about shelters for protected animals. She mentioned lion cubs and had a number of concrete proposals for this: to stop the export of those endangered animals, to ban imports of hunting trophies and to launch an information campaign. In the context of Cites, efforts are being made to prevent the extinction of wild species as a result of international trade. In addition, the breeding of animals is a means to reduce the pressure on wild nature. In the marketing of bred animals, such animals shall be required to go to a responsible destination. So that's a requirement in that program. Hunting trophies may no longer be imported into the Netherlands. With regard to the raw ivory, we ourselves are now ahead in Europe. I myself have arranged that this should no longer be traded in the Netherlands. At European level, we are now working on this, so that it will also take place at European level, because then you will really make a statement. Because the more difficult it gets, the more muffled it also has a dampening effect. Then there's the information campaign. This is, of course, about people who voluntarily go somewhere and volunteer to help. It's not like I can, if people want to do something voluntarily, forbid them to do it. In my opinion, broader questions have also been asked, including to Mr Kaag, and not so much on this point, but more on the question: what do you do when people go abroad to help, when it is the question of whether it is help? That was, I believe, a bit of the discussion that was behind it. I believe that an initiative paper has also been drawn up for this purpose from the VVD. I will ask Mr Kaag if she can include this, because this is really something that lies in the field of foreign affairs. So that is not something that we are suddenly going to launch all kinds of campaigns or something like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u61	I would at least like to thank the Minister for the will of the Chamber... For we have been asking on behalf of the whole Chamber for a long time to tackle this illegal trade and also transit. But that is why I also mentioned it in my term: there are dogs, for example, that can be used at Schiphol Airport and in the mainports, who are trained in tracking parts of animals. They smell that. You can even train dogs to detect parts of animal species and the like. But they don't use it. That's how a lot of illegal traders get off the dance. I would like to ask: is the Minister prepared to argue with the other two ministers concerned that these dogs should be used more in the mainports?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u62	Of course, we always have our actions: Pangolin, Toucan. Those are the actions to detect the illegal trade. That happens in a lot of places. For example, customs and NVWA are involved. There are really different parties that are taking action to show you correctly: you are being watched and in the picture, and we are also confiscating matters. And I think you said: unfortunately, that results. That sounds a bit double, because you would like to see that there is no result at all, because then it wouldn't happen again. It's happening. But those actions do show that we're on top of it. Different methods are needed for this. What exactly is the best method for this, I really want to leave it to those who specialise in it. There are teams at customs and the NVWA who are just good at assessing what it takes to get a stake on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u63	But that's like our veterinary forensic team: that's a lot to track down animal executioners, but doesn't get any money from the government. And here it is the same: there are people who train dogs to detect cancer, ammunition and explosives that are commonly used by others. But they also train them in tracking parts of animals and endangered animals. And why? It costs several thousand euros. I know that Secretary of State Dijksma, including LNV, made €100,000 available at the time to better protect the elephants. But of course we can also make several thousands of euros per dog available, so that there will be better detective dogs on our mainports.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u64	We generally put money into these kinds of actions, because otherwise they will not be carried out. They're quite successful actions, and then I say it a little euphemistically, because things are coming up. Every time animals come up again. I myself indicated that, for example, the trade in raw ivory should no longer take place. You don't get a permit to trade that anymore. You don't have a certificate, and if you don't have a certificate, you can't go through with it. That's how we're trying to shut that down. So it doesn't happen in one way. A lot of action is taking place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u65	First of all, I would like to express my thanks for the fact that the Minister is genuinely committed to a total ban on trade in raw ivory in the EU. That's very important. That is what I had in my speech, but I was unable to do so because of the speaking time. Thank you very much for that. I would like to ask the Minister a question about the trade in farmed and bred animals. Export quotas have been set for trade in, for example, bred lions, but if you look at those dates, you can see that this trade is much larger than the breeding programmes or would suggest the breeding of the animals. Does the Minister see that the legal trade in these animals is actually a cover for the non-legal trade, the illegal trade? Does she agree, like the Animal Party, that these loopholes in the law should actually be closed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u66	I do not have the figures that Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen refers to right now. I should take a look at that. I don't know about that right now. She says it would be a cover for other exports. If there's a quota, I think it's right that we should stay below it, otherwise you don't need a quota. The animals that are traded must, as I have just indicated, be clearly registered. It must be clear in what circumstances and for what purpose they have been bred. I am thinking, for example, of zoos or such things. But I find it complicated. Maybe I can come back to it in the second term, because I should have a look at the figures. I would like to receive it from Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u67	One example is the Asian otter. Because of his cute looks, he's definitely the victim of it. The trade in this otter is many times larger than the breeding. Criminals therefore use the legal trade to poach and catch animals in the wild and thus trade them. We would very much like the Minister to put an end to the export of these endangered species.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u68	I'll get back to you in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u69	Fine. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u70	First of all, I should like to congratulate Mr Moorlag on his birthday. It is the same day as my son's birthday; it is also today's birthday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u71	Congratulations, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u72	Thank you. We've been asked about the ambitions. I have just indicated where our ambitions lie at European and global level. Then the stakes of Cites. It's true that there's going to be a conference on Cites. Some more questions have been asked about that. What is the Dutch commitment to this? That is broader, so I would like to make it clear by letter that I was already planning to do what the Netherlands is doing for the Cites conference, so that you can see exactly what we are doing. We're still giving hands and feet at this whole process, but I was already planning on taking your room neatly into it. I think it would be a good idea to do it that way, so that you can get a precise overview of it. Then there is Mr De Groot's question on the Caribbean Netherlands. Shouldn't we also do something in the Caribbean Netherlands? As you know, I am working on a new nature policy plan for the Caribbean Netherlands for the period 2020-2050. I have just indicated this in a general consultation. That plan will be there by the end of the year. We're working on that right now. You can also see how we deal with endangered species in the Caribbean Netherlands. By the way, I can tell you that the shark letter will also be coming to your Chamber very soon. It also covers the Caribbean Netherlands. I'm coming to see Mrs. Bromet. Mr President, I never give qualifications to contributions, but may I take the liberty of congratulating Mrs Bromet on the hopeful contribution she has made? It is true that if you look at it, you can get very gloomy about it, but there are also points of light that indicate a kind of direction in how we can deal with some things. That is how I listened to Mrs Bromet's contribution. She asked the more fundamental question whether I am aware of the responsibility for the protection of animals that the Netherlands has as a prosperous country, also in relation to the rest of the world. Yeah, I can feel that. I have just indicated how we are committed to strengthening biodiversity at European and global level. I mentioned the New Deal for Nature, which should lead to new UN commitments in China at the end of next year. That is why we are also committed to an ambitious European input. If you do that with each other, then the power comes from there, of course. I would also like to mention our presidency of the Amsterdam Declarations Partnership. Those are all different places where we do that. I made that contribution to the Agriculture and Fisheries Council last Monday. I have said that it is incredibly important that we, as Europe, also ensure that our imports do not lead to loss of biodiversity or deforestation elsewhere. Fortunately, many countries agreed that we are really going to take steps to achieve that more. That is what we are trying to do at the conference we are about to hold in the Netherlands. So I share the view that we have an important responsibility for this. It gave a number of examples which could also be used in the Netherlands. I would like to mention the Brazilian example of closing down areas for endangered species. I see there's some commotion. I'm talking about connecting. Didn't I say that? I hear I said "closing" by mistake.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u73	Connect!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u74	Yeah, hook up. Excuse me. Don't close it. I didn't mean it like that. I'm just talking about hooking up. But if that's how it happens, it's not good. In the Netherlands we have the Nature Network Netherlands, in which we also always look for ways to connect nature reserves. That is also the subject of discussion with the provinces. So we are already looking at what is possible there. The next point is the IJsselmeer, the win-win situation with regard to fisheries. I have recently sent your Chamber a letter on how I intend to deal with the IJsselmeer fisheries. You have the fishing, you have the birds that are very important to the IJsselmeer and you have the pressure on the fishing of the IJsselmeer. We are now in the process, as the Chamber has also asked, of arranging with the sector a form of warm restructuring in order to ensure that the fish stocks in the IJsselmeer are restored. There must be a balance with what is being fished up. So we are already giving very concrete hands and feet to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u75	I read that letter. It's a good thing that warm cleanup is finally getting there. I'm happy about that. I also hope that it will result in more My question is about connecting nature reserves in the Netherlands. In an earlier consultation, I asked the Minister about the situation and whether money is a problem. The Minister said that money is not a problem, that the provinces have enough money, and that they have to get to work. What is the state of affairs and how does the Minister see it? We are not going to achieve our goals, but the provinces really need to get to work now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u76	I indicated in the consultation that we have had the quick blows when it comes to acquiring land, for example for nature development. Now comes the stage in which decisions that are more difficult to take, for example on expropriation of land. It'll take time. That's why things are slower at the moment than they were at the beginning. At first, the choices were easier, but now it's getting harder. We are always talking to the provinces about what they need to do. It is not so much a question of money, but much more of how to acquire those land, or how to develop nature in other ways. That doesn't necessarily have to do with ground acquisition. You have to get parties who want to develop that nature in their own area. We support wherever possible. We also work closely with the provinces when it comes to everything that comes out of the climate agreement. They often include provincial assignments. That way, we are always in conversation with the provinces. If they experience bottlenecks, then they come up is our experience. They also asked how you could use the measures for the spoonbill for other animals on the red list. In the past species protection plans were made by the Ministry, for example for the spoonbill. Today, however, a broader approach is taken, more area-oriented, but also more focussed on the habitat. The improvement of the site and the quality of the environment is going well, for example in the Natura 2000 sites and in the Netherlands Nature Network. Mr De Groot asked about the preventive approach, preventing species from appearing on the red list. The red lists are compiled per animal group. The degree of threat is determined on the basis of scientific criteria. I keep in mind my policy, but that also applies to the provinces, taking into account the red-listed species. That's how the methodology works. Species policy aims to have fewer species on that red list and not to have them in the most threatened category. This requires a much broader approach. Then it's not just one button. This has to do with the development of Nature Network, and with choices you make in your policy about the development of nature. This also requires a broader discussion. The question is also how to deal with the combination of agriculture and nature. How do you make sure the soil gets healthy? This is good for life in the soil and good for biodiversity. A great deal of progress needs to be made in this area. We are working in all these areas at the same time to ensure that these species are not included in the list. By the way, climate change is also a reason for species to be included in the list, but that is, of course, a much larger issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u77	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answer. It's good to see what you can do in a general sense, but it's even better to see if you can reward farmers in the context of agricultural nature management if they take care of the species that are already doing well. You can develop concrete instruments for this under the new CAP or otherwise. The Minister shares this objective, but it needs to be implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u78	With regard to the CAP, we have, of course, already set other targets from your Chamber, for example in relation to meadow birds and also in relation to biodiversity. It is precisely in the discussions on the CAP that we are trying to give more direction to this. It's running a little slow right now. I told you that before. It's a little quiet in Europe. But that is the real commitment of the Netherlands. If you're going to reward all the species with which it's going well, you're going to have a bit of a discussion about the question: what are you going to bet the scarce money on first? I think we need to make sure that, in the policy we are developing, when you are very busy protecting species that are worse, we always have to think about what it means for species that are still in good shape. The point is that you always keep that in mind when it comes to policy that you make. For example, I would like to focus on some of the issues that your Chamber has now included in the CAP. If I also have to focus on the preservation of all kinds of species that are not in themselves threatened, then the money will be spread over a lot of purposes, which will also make it less effective. I think it's much more of a thought of: think about what consequences choices have for things that are just going well now, will that remain so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u79	Yeah, it's more like that, too. And it's about looking at how you can support that from the government, in consultation with the authors of the Deltaplan Biodiversity. They have prepared this approach for a reason. I mentioned one option. If that's not a good option, I'm okay with it. The point is that the policy is well on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u80	I agree. Then about Caribbean Netherlands. I know Mr De Groot's passion in the Caribbean Netherlands, and rightly so. We have unique nature there, the coral. But it's not natural that that unique nature stays there. The protection of coral is therefore also an important component of the new Caribbean Netherlands Nature Policy Plan that we are preparing. Moreover, coral is mainly affected by climate change. The question is also how to deal with waste water and that sort of thing, but this is also a global issue, I would like to say. We are also going to look in that plan specifically at what we can do for the Caribbean Netherlands at this point. You'll get that later. Then there are the policy instruments. What policy instruments do we now have to ensure that general species remain present? The choice for which activity takes place is spatial planning policy. I would also mention water and air quality, Natura 2000, the management of natural sites and recreational areas and parks. The legal measures in the Nature Protection Act also provide fairly strict frameworks for dealing with protected species. Then I come to Mr Graus' questions. He had a question about ivory and the stakes on it. I've just been told that two dogs are being trained in Cites activities at Schiphol Airport. So there are activities now taking place at that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u81	My day is over, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u82	You'll be served as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u83	I didn't know that. As the aviation spokesman, I have close contacts with Schiphol about this, but I didn't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u84	Customs trained two dogs at Schiphol Airport in Cites activities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u85	Ah, look, so. I'm very pleased. Thank you, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u86	That's good to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u87	So it's not about Schiphol, it's about Customs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u88	Sure, and that also saves a motion right away, so that's neat.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u89	I saw you walking around with a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u90	That's another motion. It's about the African lion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u91	Mr Graus indeed asked about the lion on the Cites list. As far as I know, no proposal has been put forward for the CoP in May. If there is no proposal, then there will be no decision. It is also something that should initially do the so-called range states, because of course those endangered species live and reside there. But at the moment there is no proposal in this area and then there will probably be no decision in May.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u92	Mr Graus, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u93	This is exactly what I heard you say just now, and I'm gonna be able to support it, apart from a single party. Otherwise, at least I will table a motion as a stick behind the door, because I really want the government to make a strong commitment to this. That is also possible, because I know that the predecessors of this minister have done the same when it comes to the elephant or other animals. So it's possible, and that's kind of my request, too. You will see in a moment that a fairly wide-ranging motion for a resolution will be tabled, as a stick behind the door.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u94	Okay, we're gonna see that in the second term. Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u95	Let's talk about the cites summit. It is at the end of May, and we would have liked the Minister to have already sent her commitment to the Cites Summit for this debate, but that was not possible. My request is now whether the Minister could send her commitment to the Cites Summit for the SO LNV Council on 6 May. Then we still have the opportunity to respond as a Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u96	I'll just take a quick look at my support to see if 6 May is feasible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u97	Perhaps you could come back to that in second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u98	Yeah, that's good. But I promised you'd get a letter on the stakes, so that's what we're working on. Mr Weverling asked about the file on illegal imports of protected animals and what efforts had been made. As I have just indicated, this is one of my spearheads and there are several links in that chain, which need to be taken into account. It is also important that this is not just something of the government, but of all the parties involved. The implementation of the EU Action Plan against Wildlife Crime, the operations that I just mentioned Pangolin, Toukan, the sale of raw ivory, promoting international support for enforcement and improving its cooperation. So we are actually taking a great deal of action in these areas. Is the local population involved in this? This is indeed the case in many projects, especially in the case of projects to combat wildlife crime. We also support various projects in this area, precisely those aimed at bringing the inhabitants of the region together. Protected areas also provide an important source of income for the local population, so it will also benefit the local population that these animals remain there. This is absolutely important for the long term. For the short term, by the way. The European commitment and that of the Member States in the field of wildlife capture. That was a question following Mr Weverling's visit to the AAP Foundation. I've been there, too. Nice work done there, important work too. Sometimes you think: how is it possible that all these animals are taken to the Netherlands? What's gotten into people to bring these animals? It's nice that there's a place where those animals are well cared for. I have already replied to Parliamentary questions about what the Netherlands is doing about the reception of live animals seized in the context of Cites. The laws and regulations vary from country to country. The biggest threshold is reception costs. The Netherlands has been active internationally on this topic within Cites. This has also led to countries being supported to make it possible, within their own legislation, to recover the costs from the offender. Cites will also be better informed about adequate reception facilities. So that's how we try to shape that reception in the width. Mr Geurts asked about the possibilities for demanding residue values, for example, at EU level. He also asked how we deal with trade agreements. If you don't think it's good enough for your own Member States, why allow it to happen elsewhere? The commitment to trade agreements is that we should include our demands. But that is not always the result, because negotiations are taking place with several Member States and standards are different. For the Netherlands, we always have to ensure that these standards are applied there too. Mr Geurts' question was also broader. How are we committed to ensuring that imports from other countries do not lead to loss of biodiversity elsewhere? I have just mentioned the Amsterdam Declarations Partnership. The use of the Netherlands is that imports of raw materials, for example, do not lead to deforestation elsewhere. We are going to bet a lot more on that. These are always issues of discussion when concluding trade agreements. So it turns out. Those discussions are not always easy to take away. The commitment of the Netherlands is always aimed at this. I have heard Mr Geurts make a moral appeal in the supermarkets. I also think it is important that they take their role in this. Finally, I come to Mr Futselaar. I have already mentioned the Amsterdam Declarations Partnership. We're still on with the Toucan and Pangolin operations. We don't say how and when, because then we give too much information. Please be assured that we will stay on top of that. Then there are the acceleration actions that are now under way with regard to Sharm el-Sheikh. By the end of 2020, we want to reach a new deal for nature in China. The focus of the effort is inter alia on the link with other sectors, such as banks, industry and, of course, agriculture. Let me explain in the letter how we are going to shape that. Until 2020, we are working in the Netherlands with the provinces to make improvements in the Dutch Nature Network, which ultimately also contributes to biodiversity. That is an important part of the implementation of the appointment made in Sharm el-Sheikh about the acceleration.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u99	We've been doing what we've been doing until 2020. We had already made agreements with the provinces about the Dutch Nature Network. I don't see a change right away since November 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u100	I have already indicated, even during the AO Nature, that we are just with the provinces looking at what they need to really keep the speed in. The observation was that the low fruit has since been picked. We're getting into a phase where it's gonna get harder. That doesn't mean we have to get the speed out. If that does happen, what does it take to keep that speed? I have said that I feel very responsible for seeing with the provinces what it takes. The provinces are just in transition and that doesn't help at all. Be assured that we are very committed to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u101	So, to go into the latter, can I make a suggestion? At the moment, the coalition agreements are being written, and that is important. Will the Minister please write to all the reformers to make clear what she expects in the area of the Netherlands Nature Network, so what needs to be achieved? How they do that, they can fill it out themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u102	I know from a reliable source that there is someone here who plays a very important role in this. We offer our services wherever possible, including in the field of nature. You can check with one of the informers. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u103	Yeah, that's what I thought. Thank you. We're ready for the second term. I am looking at the Members as to whether they need it, because a great deal has been promised. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen wishes to make use of her speaking time in the second term. She speaks on behalf of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u104	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, many thanks to the Minister for the reply and the many commitments. I do have two more motions, so I'll start reading them quickly. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that traditional Chinese medicine is already responsible for three-quarters of the illicit trade in endangered species;]] [[noting that the World Health Organisation nevertheless intends to include traditional Chinese medicine on the standard classification list for disease images (ICD);]] [[Whereas there are major concerns that this will lead to a significant increase in this trade;]] [[calls on the Government to vote against this proposal at the World Health Assembly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1044]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u105	My final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that wild animals are caught or bred in captivity all over the world, to entertain people in the tourism industry;]] [[noting that Dutch tourists often contribute unconsciously to this;]] [[invites the Government to inform the Dutch tourist about these practices, for example in the travel advice of Customs or Foreign Affairs, and to inform the Court of Justice thereof before the end of 2019, by means of an information campaign,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1045]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll start by reading my motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas countries cooperate internationally on the basis of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Aliens and Plants (Cites) to improve the protection of endangered species;]] [[calls on the Government, preferably in cooperation with European partners, to use its influence to ensure, at the forthcoming Cites Conference, that endangered species are better protected and that measures are taken against countries which fail to comply with their obligations of protection,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1046]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u107	Finally, Mr President. The Minister's contribution also strengthens me in the belief that we need to make much more work on an international food strategy. Food production captures so much area that it contributes to deforestation. My question to the Minister is whether she wants to fight for less food waste and for a transition from the consumption of animal proteins to that of vegetable proteins. In my view, these are fundamental elements in tackling the decline in biodiversity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u108	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Bromet on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u109	Mr. Chairman. It is very important to conclude international conventions and make agreements, but ultimately it is also important to do things and improve biodiversity. I welcome the Minister's answers in itself. I am also convinced that she is committed to greater biodiversity and less endangered species. I would just like to draw her attention to the fact that in these international conventions there are practical tools that can also lead to results in the Netherlands. This is because it is also responsible for the latter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u110	Thank you, Mrs Bromet. I now give the floor to Mr De Groot on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u111	Mr. Chairman. Compliments to the Minister for the answer. Thank you for that, too. However, I shall table three motions for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas nature policy focuses mainly on species threatened with extinction;]] [[Whereas this does not pay sufficient attention to the species with which it is (yet) going well;]] [[Whereas it is important to ensure that the Red List of endangered species does not grow further;]] [[Whereas it is much more effective in nature conservation practice if you do not have to wait for species to stand deep in red;]] [[Whereas the Deltaplan Biodiversity has formulated an approach along the lines of doing, learning, doing better;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the provinces, to adopt additional policy instruments focusing on basic nature quality so that general species remain general,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr De Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1048]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u112	May I read the operative part?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u113	No, you just... I do not know how big these motions are, but otherwise you will save them for another meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u114	But they're actually even more important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u115	Yeah, everything's important. You have to choose. Which one do you think is important?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u116	Good. I'll do one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u117	Good. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u118	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that certain sunscreens contain chemicals, such as oxybenzon, which are harmful to the coral;]] [[Whereas sunscreen with these substances promotes vital infections in corals;]] [[Whereas oxybenzon also disrupts the development of other marine life, such as fish, shrimp, oysters and sea urchins;]] [[noting that large chunks of coral have already disappeared in the Caribbean;]] [[Whereas there are also sunscreens on the market that do not contain oxybenzone;]] [[Whereas the Dutch Government has the legal instruments to assist the Caribbean part of the Kingdom to protect their coral;]] [[calls on the Government to introduce a legal ban on the use of harmful sunscreens in the Caribbean part of the Kingdom,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr De Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1047]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u120	Sun cream. We still have months, so that motion could have been filed later. Excuse me? Yeah, it's hot in the Caribbean islands. The Minister knows that better than I do. Mr. Graus, how many motions do you have?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u121	One motion, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u122	There you go! Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u123	Mr. Chairman. This motion was co-signed by Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Futselaar of the Socialist Party, also known as "the Futs," Mrs Bromet van GroenLinks... Mrs Van Kooten-Ariës, by the way, belongs to the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u124	You've already mentioned it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u125	Yeah, but I'd like to mention the party for the people at home who don't know her yet. The motion was also signed by Mr Moorlag, the PvdA's birthday job, and Mr De Groot of D66. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the African Lion is included in Annex I of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species to ensure optimal protection status and tough handling of illicit trafficking to mainly Asian countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Graus, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Futselaar, Mr Bromet, Mr Moorlag and Mr De Groot.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1049]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u126	I hope that the Minister will ensure that the animal executioners in the overseas parts are also dealt with by imprisonment and restraining them. I also wish the Minister a happy birthday from her son Thomas, who I believe has been 19 years old.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u127	18.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u128	There you go! I'm always a little ahead of things.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u129	You know more than I do, Mr. Graus! Thank you. Then I will go to Mr Weverling on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u130	Thank you, Madam President. No motions on my part. I thank the Minister for answering the questions. It is good to hear that the Minister sees the added value of the reception centres we were talking about. I would like the Minister's undertaking that she will remain actively in dialogue with these institutions, so that obstructive regulations and other problems, such as the national and European costs that the Minister talked about, can continue to be identified and, where possible, removed. Can the Minister undertake to do so? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u131	Thank you, Mr. Weverling. Finally, we will go to Mr Futselaar. No? Then I'll see if the minister can answer directly. She'd like a five-minute suspension. Then I'll suspend for a few moments, but if I can do it sooner, I'll be happy to hear it. Motions are coming up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u132	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u133	Mr. Chairman. I have six motions and a few more questions. The motion in part No. 1044 concerns an area of my colleague from VWS, so I would ask that this motion be put to the vote. I must now say something about something that my colleague from VWS is about. I can't do that. If Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen would like to submit this motion to VWS, that would be more practical in practical terms. I can't judge it, because I'm not going to judge it. I have not been able to discuss this with my colleague from VWS in a minute and a half. Otherwise, I'd have to discourage the motion. Submit the motion to VWS, I'd say. The same applies to the motion in part No. 1045. It is about "the Customs" and the Secretary of State who is concerned about this, has just left the Chamber "or Foreign Affairs." That's not up to me either. Here too, I would like to say: submit the motion to the person concerned. Otherwise, I must discourage the motion, because I am not going to say to my colleagues whether it is okay or not. The motion in part No. 1046 is about Cites. This is exactly what we're doing at Cites. We are in the process of better protecting and taking measures to protect endangered species. So, yeah, actually, it's just policy support. I can also take over the motion, Mr President, because this is exactly what we are doing. I'll take her from here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u134	The proposal is that the motion should be put to the vote at the next voting time. 1046 to be taken over. Anybody mind? No, I'm establishing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u135	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I've just had a little talk. The motion in part No. I will indeed amend 1044. The motion in part No. 1045 is really about the information campaign that this minister can do. I have just mentioned examples. The Minister does not have to follow these examples. I'm really asking for an information campaign on those farms. There are both travel organisations and nature organisations who would very much like the Minister to launch an information campaign.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u136	But I'm not gonna do that, so I'm gonna back off this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u137	The motion in part No. So 1044 is under arrest. Is that right? That's the case, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u138	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u139	Then the motion to part No. 1048. It says: "calls on the government to come up with additional policy instruments in consultation with the provinces'. I do not think I need additional policy instruments. It is now much more important that we consult with the provinces on how to preserve the basic quality for nature, so that general species also remain general. So I don't share "additional policy instruments" right now. If the motion can be so modified, that part is omitted and the request is to go into consultation to see how general types can remain general, then the motion is support of policy. But that is up to Mr De Groot. If the motion isn't changed, I'm gonna have to dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u140	Mr De Groot, what exactly do you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u141	I will amend the motion accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u142	Then the motion will be changed. Mr Weverling disagrees?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u143	We're not in the middle of busy therapy here, are we? There will be motions that support policy and that are either taken over or discouraged.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u144	That's the assessment framework. If it's policy support, it's "dissuade." That's right. Then I'll look at the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u145	I'm not here to sew someone in the suit, but I think things are a little special.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u146	You're also starting to "Grausen" a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u147	I trust you will assert your authority, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u148	Well... Mr. De Groot says don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u149	I read the motion in such a way that I am encouraged to enter into these talks with the provinces and I want to do so. That is the result of the motion if it is amended, so that is why I am judging. I can also give the motion "judge chamber." That's fine. If that helps for Mr. Weverling, I'll give the "judge chamber" motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u150	But we've agreed on an assessment framework between Chamber and Cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u151	"Support policy" is no longer one of them?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u152	"Support policy" is simply superfluous and thus "dissuade." Not to bother Mr. De Groot, but I'll report it because otherwise it's just not fair to other MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u153	I get that, but in my day...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u154	Yeah, I know. In my day, it was different, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u155	It is nice that the Minister wishes to raise this, but it is something else. The current policy really focuses on the red-listed species, the species that are already policy. I would also like to say to Mr Weverling that we are being asked to take a moment with the Delta Plan on the restoration of biodiversity and, therefore, with the province, to think about how to keep the species that are not yet on it alive. That is indeed a new element. I will amend the motion, but it does not seem to me entirely to support the policy, because it is something new.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u156	I'll take all the blame. I won't use this judgment anymore. I will give judgment to the Chamber, because Mr De Groot is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u157	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u158	The motion in part No. 1047 concerns a legal ban on the use of harmful sunscreens. In line with my reaction towards Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, I would point out that this concerns the area of my colleague Stientje van Veldhoven, namely the environment. I would advise Mr De Groot to submit the motion to her, because I cannot give a ruling on it now. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u159	I will do so, although I note that the motion is addressed to the government. So I think it's a little tricky.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u160	Yeah, but I have to judge every time about areas that aren't mine. I think that's getting a little complicated, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u161	That's right. Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u162	The motion in part No. 1049 calls on the Government to ensure that the African lion is included in Appendix 1 to Cites. It is now too late in the procedure to put the African lion in Appendix 1. It has not been registered and can therefore not be decided. I'll try to explain what I can do. We can see at EU level what we can do to promote that he is going to be on that list. This is a discussion among African countries. They are the ones who have those animals, and so they are the ones who have to formally put those animals on that list, but I can see in Europe what we can do to encourage that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u163	That's a tough one for me. We are at the forefront of animal welfare in Europe. So we must now consult countries that are lagging behind and ask them to do so. My question to this minister is simply to commit himself. That's possible, because the minister is a powerful woman. It can deal with this in this way and it can also discuss it at the conference. That is why I would like the motion to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u164	You're free to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u165	Of course, the Minister can also discuss this with her European colleagues. I'm not getting involved in that. This is simply about what the Minister's commitment should be, but perhaps the Minister can also ensure that the African lion is taken with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u166	That's what I'm trying to explain. The latter is not possible now, because there is a procedure for doing so. It is no longer possible to include the African lion on the list. Because it hasn't been logged in, it can't now. And this kind of thing is powerful when you see it in a European context.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u167	The verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u168	As I explain the motion, she could be given a Chamber of Justice, but when it comes to Mr Graus' explanation, I would advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u169	Well, then, of course, I always choose judgment room. I am also more concerned with the stakes and the stick behind the door, so that it really is going to happen. That is also more the purpose of my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u170	I understand that, but I say what I would do to see what we can do in Europe to make a joint statement to increase the pressure. The practical measures mentioned by Mrs Bromet. That is precisely what our commitment is aimed at. We've set quite large abstract targets. We believe that they should be filled in much more concretely, so that everyone knows what to do. As far as talking to the AAP Foundation is concerned, of course, we are already doing so and we will continue to do so. I have one more question from Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen which I would come back to in the second term. That question is about breeding versus trade. Illegal trafficking is illegal trafficking. You can't do that. That is also what we keep checking for. Unfortunately, I must also say that illegal trafficking is never entirely preventable. Animal breeding can contribute to biodiversity or the conservation of protected species. If a population has become very small, it can also be maintained by breeding. So I wouldn't want to have a breeding ban, because then you might as well throw away the good things of it. The purposes for breeding shall also be checked at the time of authorisation. That is why we are not in favour of a total ban on breeding and exports, but of proper enforcement. That is what we are contributing to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u171	A short question or a short response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u172	This is a brief clarification. For example, there are African countries that say that they breed lions, so the animals do not come from the wild. Now it is true that there are several skeletons of lions, which are indeed dead and whose bones are ground, on one permit. Those animals aren't from breeding, they're from the wild. In this way, the legal trade, which unfortunately is still allowed, is a cover for the criminals who, after all, are poaching the animals in the wild and thus putting them on the legal market. Will the Minister make an effort to stop this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u173	That is precisely what we are doing with our monitoring and our actions to see where such imports are taking place. But more broadly, if you go for a breeding ban, you will also throw away the good aspects of that case. That would be a real shame. The illegality of legal trade cannot always be prevented. Of course, that is also something we are considering. Mr. Chairman. I have one more question: is the letter coming on 6 May? It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u174	That's good news, too. Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u175	We shall be voting on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I see Mr Graus is giving everyone a hand.
