ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-4.u1	I now give the floor to Mrs Den Boer, on behalf of D66, for her question to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, whom I would also like to welcome, on the violation of its own rules by the province of Limburg with jobs for former politicians.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "You're integrity or you're not integrity. A little integrity, that can't be." That's what former Interior Minister Ien Dales said in the 1990s. Last week we could read in NRC: "The daily administration of the province of Limburg handed out assignments to former colleagues at its own discretion." 31 former politicians received nearly 2 million in jobs from the provincial government. It was about jobs as quartermaster, ambassador and chain director. There were no public vacancies and no tenders. In fact, Limburg pays more in jobs for ex-politicians than all other provinces combined. Procedures were not transparent. Meeting about the reward was classified. This course of action reeks of a culture in which people play each other the ball, a job carousel. This confirms the image of a closed world, where other people or companies have no chance. This is certainly not good for confidence in politics and public administration. Of course you immediately wonder: aren't there rules about this? Yes, there is a code of conduct with a so-called anti-turn door control: if you leave as a driver, you are not allowed to do jobs for the province for a year. Almost all provinces know this rule. One province does not know this rule; that is the province of Limburg. Despite the deletion of that specific rule, other integrity rules have still been violated: a driver who co-decides on a job for his friend and party partner or contracts that should have been tendered at European level and that are awarded without procedure to a former governor of the province. Mr. Chairman. I find this very worrying. Does the Minister share my indignation and have she called the governor of the province of Limburg on how this is actually possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-4.u3	I now give the floor to the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me start by saying that if Mrs Den Boer herself had not quoted Ien Dales, I would have started with that. Because I have said before that integrity of public administration is crucial. You can think of such beautiful policies or have such great ambitions and so well implemented, it begins and ends with the basis of the integrity of the people who stand before them. The importance of integrity cannot therefore be sufficiently underlined. Mrs Den Boer also knows that we have often had debates on this. I am trying to put into practice a package with driver support, a Manual of Basic Scan Integrity et cetera, et cetera. Now that message appeared in the NRC. That's raised a lot of questions, including me. In reply to Mrs Den Boer's questions, this at least leads me to ask the King's Commissioner what exactly is going on. Under the Province Law, the Commissioner has the task of promoting the administrative integrity of the province. So I've asked him for a notice of office by now. In that post, I asked him to deal with the following matters. What exactly is the situation? We were able to read it in the NRC; I would like to know about the Commissioner. Is this situation also contrary to laws and regulations? Why does the province of Limburg depart from the model regulation as we actually have available for all the other administrative levels of Limburg provinces, municipalities and water authorities? Because the so-called revolving door construction is addressed in that model regulation, but it does not seem to have taken over the province of Limburg. Finally, of course, there is also the question of what the provincial government is going to do next. Mrs Den Boer is right to say that this is not possible. I agree, but I do think I need to hear from the county exactly what this is about. That is why I asked those four questions. It is also the province's responsibility to take appropriate measures: to find out what is happening and to take appropriate measures. I also expect Provincial States to engage in this debate and to act as corrective bodies. In the meantime, I understand that the county administration itself has announced its intention to review the policy, and I think that is also important to ask the Southern Court of Auditors to carry out an investigation. I think that's an important step. In fact, I expect the outcome to be reported to me through the post and through the results in the States there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-4.u5	It is very nice to see that the Minister has had a serious conversation with the Governor, the King's Commissioner. I also like the Minister's understanding of these problems. However, I do wonder whether the province of Limburg itself sees these problems sufficiently now, because in an earlier reaction it was said: Limburg does a lot of work because the social, economic and cultural activities of the provincial government are more comprehensive than those of all the other provinces together. In addition, the rotating door article has been deliberately deleted. I ask the Minister what she thinks of this. What does this say about the sense of integrity in this county? How is it that this province has a weak code of conduct on administrative integrity, given the previous incidents? A motion was also adopted that appointments in the province of Limburg should be open and transparent. What responsibility does the Minister have here and was she aware that this provision was deliberately deleted?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-4.u6	The model behavior code has been drawn up jointly by BZK, VNG, IPO and Union of Water Councils, and it is there for a reason. That model behavior code states that directors are not allowed to carry out paid work for the province for one year after their resignation. That is, of course, to prevent boyfriend politics and to avoid conflict of interest. It's a model regulation. The agreement is that a code of conduct, which is also common in Limburg, is there; that is mandatory. The model regulation is a basis, and you can deviate from that reasoning. I have just said that in my question to the Commissioner of the King I would like to know exactly why and how they propose to proceed now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-4.u7	I am of course pleased with these answers, but does the Minister have any insight into the compliance with these integrity rules in all other Dutch provinces? And above all: is that model code of conduct the Minister is talking about still up-to-date? Does it have any idea how many local authorities use this? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I really want to emphasise that the image of former politicians playing the ball to each other is, of course, extremely bad for confidence in our politics. I appreciate the Minister's efforts. It is of course very important that she talks with the province of Limburg and hopefully also with other provinces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-4.u8	I'd like to underline that last point. Integrity is the core of why people have faith in public administration. This is being harmed; that is beyond me as well. We don't all want that. I think it is very good that the model regulation is in place, but I think that, after we have been given the more detailed information, this matter gives us reason to take a good look, in consultation with the domes, whether the model regulation is sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-4.u9	Thank you, Mrs Den Boer. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-4.u10	Limburg has a series of high-profile integrity scandals. The Minister himself has been closely involved in the aftermath of this. She said a lot of things at the time. So it can't come as a surprise that the government of the province of Limburg is vulnerable to this. I would therefore like to know from the Minister, knowing of this vulnerability, knowing of previous scandals, what concrete steps she has taken towards, among other things, the province of Limburg? What is she going to do when they don't pull a leg now, for example when it comes to the model agreement? It can't be just vague promises.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-4.u11	Maybe I can tell Mrs. Chicken that I take this very seriously. I have already said that integrity is high on my agenda. The other governments are very aware of this and they are very much involved in it. The same applies to the province of Limburg. In that respect, I make no distinction. I expect all the other governments to abide by it and to do so. Moreover, the King's Commissioner also has a special role to play in terms of integrity in the province. I have already outlined in reply to Mrs Den Boer what I asked the governor. Of course, I have to look at the basis on their side. Depending on that, I want to see if I want to make further arrangements with them, specifically for that. In addition, I have just said that I would like to look with the domes at whether the model regulation would need tightening up on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-4.u12	And is the Chamber getting any information about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-4.u13	I think that's a very good plan, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-4.u14	Okay. Then there is an interruption by Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-4.u15	It is worrying to see that there seems to be a culture in Limburg in which chores and jobs are divided among each other. I have the following specific question to the Minister. She said that she asked the province for a text and explanation. That is one step, but is it also prepared to urge the province that, until all this has been investigated, all appointments for jobs and functions and the deployment of former drivers are put on hold?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-4.u16	I have just said that I have put down my questions and that I am expecting a statement from the King's Commissioner. I have also noted that the provincial government itself has now announced its intention to review the policy. I think that's right, based on what I'm getting from the messages. I can see that the province takes its responsibility in this, because it is, of course, primarily up to the province to take appropriate measures. The announcement has been made and the debate on it will undoubtedly continue there. Similarly, provincial democracy has its own corrective effect. I think that's important. I will take this into account when I have further information at my disposal when I ask whether I would like to make further arrangements with the governor or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-4.u17	Seven and a half tons for a PVV-old-deputy. Just a little assignment to help a PVV-old deputy get a job. Millions of euros went to fellow party members. The Minister says 'that is impossible' and thinks that the States of Limburg could solve the problem. But the States of Limburg and the coalition are currently made up of PVV, Forum for Democracy and CDA; the CDA that has divided the jobs for years. How do you think that under these circumstances the problem can be solved in the Limburg Parliament? Don't you think there should be immediate intervention from outside your ministry?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-4.u18	I think what I've done is a logical step. I asked the King's Commissioner to explain exactly what is happening on the four points I have just mentioned and how the province intends to tackle this. I just said that the county government has announced that it wants to review the policy. They've also asked their own accountant to investigate this. Those are steps. I think these are important steps in the right direction. I want to wait and see the results of that. I do not think that I should want to intervene in the relations of the province on my own. They have their own democratic system which must also have its own corrective effect. But once again, I am not asking for a statement from the Commissioner for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-4.u19	I don't see that corrective action here. I'm looking at the PVV and the CDA. They don't even ask questions. You just see what happens there is tolerated. I think it is very important for the appearance of democracy, for the standing of politics and for the standing of public order that the Minister should show courage and not just ask questions and wait for research. It has to show courage and appoint an external person who will investigate the course of events there and then get on with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-4.u20	I've announced what I've done. I've seen the county board make a number of announcements themselves. That's the first step. That is a step in the right direction. We will have to wait and see if it is sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-4.u21	The minister asks the governor what's going on. But I'm afraid we already know that reasonably: boyfriend politics at the top of politics in Limburg. Rules are not maintained, but bent or abolished. It is very much in demand from the same political summit in Limburg to correct itself. I don't know if I've got a lot of funding in there in advance. Can the Minister outline how that goes? Soon the advice of the governor of Limburg will come. When is this minister's move? When is an investigation going to be conducted? When is it going to be checked whether there has been corruption and whether criminal acts have been committed there? When's that gonna happen? And then who's responsible for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-4.u22	Mr Van Raak, of course, has listened carefully just now. It is important that I also ask you to comment on whether anything that has happened there is contrary to legislation and regulations. I must, of course, wait for the answer to know whether this should lead to a follow-up action. I also think it is relevant that the Court of Auditors should carry out an investigation. This is, of course, also an independent body which is able to ascertain with authority whether rules have been broken or not. I hope that Mr Van Raak will also wait and see the answers to that question before we can see that other things might have to be done from here and from my position.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-4.u23	Thank you.
