ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is the report by the Security Research Council on forensic care. I would like to welcome everyone. In particular, I welcome the family of Anne Faber and the family of Joost Wolters. It is a painful occasion to be present in the Chamber today, and I wish you every success in following this debate. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Legal Protection. On behalf of the PvdA Group, I give the floor as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. I find this debate difficult. Heavy, because it seems to me to be one of the worst things that can happen to you, namely that you lose your child or your loved one, especially knowing that if there weren't so many mistakes, your child or your loved one would probably still be there. That science seems indigestible to the family. Mr. Chairman. The murder of Anne Faber is not an incident, it's not a case in itself. In addition, error was stacked on error. Information was not shared. Screenings were out of order. Tbs should have been granted. But also in the case of Joost Wolters who was murdered on a metro in Amsterdam, we see that information was not shared, measures were not implemented and there was not enough cooperation, in short, that error was stacked on error. And also in the murder of Els Borst we see a similar pattern. Mr. Chairman. The first question I would like to put to the Minister is therefore: does he recognise that this is not an incident, that this is not the result of human failure simply that there is a systematic error that we need to correct? Of course, I want to know from the Minister whether he is capable of correcting those mistakes and what he has done over the past two years. That raises the necessary questions. The Minister has written to us that 13 leave has been withdrawn and eight leave has been suspended. This morning we heard that even three people were sent back to detention. Why were these measures only taken now and why not immediately after Joost's murder and why not immediately after Anne's murder? Because then we knew there was a mistake in the system. And what about the other hundred similar cases? Have they been screened, or is that still to be done? What risks has society run? Why haven't Mayors been informed? Those are things I want to know. Even when I look at the past: how can it be that while we have known for so long that it is not okay that perpetrators stay on their medical records, this is happening anyway? Has that also played a role in the assessment of the p.i. in Vught to refer him to the clinic because otherwise they knew he wouldn't be placed because his medical records might be too heavy and he might be denied? I want to know from the Minister whether that has played a role. Mr President, I am very sorry, but I have to suspend for a moment, because I find myself feeling dizzy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u3	Then we'll suspend for a few moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u4	Let's continue with Mrs. Chicken's contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u5	Mr President, thank you for your understanding and apology. Mr. Chairman. So I asked: what about Den Dolder and the transfer from the PI Vught? Could a prison motivation not have been to put through that they knew he would otherwise be refused in Den Dolder, because there might not have been enough people for Michael P.'s heaviness? And what about other things? I'd like to know about the Minister. Mr. Chairman. I have to look ahead, too. The Minister said: "I apologize. I'm going to make a number of recommendations." My first question is therefore: how hard are these promises? What can we charge him for? And can we expect a thorough report on how we deal with all these recommendations in a few months' time? And what about the information? Because in all the files, when it comes to Els Borst, when it comes to Joost Wolters and when it comes to Anne Faber, we see that information is not in order, that there are no proper ICT systems and that there is no system that can also issue a warning at the time of human failure. Why is such an ICT system missing? There are good examples. Why aren't they being implemented? Mr. Chairman. It is my opinion that my next question should have been asked by Michael P. tbs. The Minister has now taken a number of steps to improve the TBS system, but people can still refuse too easily. That is why I repeat my proposal: why not, two years after detention, at the time of new facts and people have been put under observation, still be able to impose TBs? I've made that proposal before. The minister didn't want it, but I think it's important. Finally, Mr President. The responsibility. The minister says, "I want to make the PI director responsible." I think that's too skinny. In my view, the Minister is responsible. Why, when it comes to checking leave, do we not introduce the same system as we do with TBs? At the time the leave is granted, you have an independent committee that knows the same heaviness as when it comes to the assessment of people in forensic care. Then I'm talking about similar people and perpetrators as in the cases we're talking about today. I think that is a sensible solution. I'd like to hear the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u6	Mrs Kuik rightly points out that we need to look again at a number of measures. But can I ask the Labour Party to reconsider one measure? We have had the Wet forensic care, in which we had put an observation measure in place to force people who refused to cooperate in their investigation. It was taken out with an amendment. It has been taken out by a number of members in this house, members of the Labour Party, the SP and others, while we need it so much: someone who refuses to be observed must be able to be forced to be observed. Can I also ask for that amendment of the law to be reversed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u7	I'd like that. Let's do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u9	Mr President, I will conclude. Mr. Chairman. What is important today is that we have the confidence that this minister is not just making excuses, but that we have the confidence that he really intends to implement measures in the short term that we know we are going to do our best, because we are going to take tough measures to prevent this happening in the future. I am going to appeal to the Minister, and I am also open to that. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I now give the floor to Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u11	The disappearance and death of Anne Faber: it is the nightmare of every parent, family, lovers and friends. And the fact that such big mistakes have been made is incredibly painful and not really digestible. This should never have happened. That makes me angry and sad. There are reports of harsh conclusions. The security of society is not envisaged. I find it incomprehensible that a convicted rapist was given so many freedoms so quickly, without an estimate of the risks. Error on error on error. Unfortunately, it's not an incident. This tragedy isn't on its own. Joost Wolters and Els Borst have just been mentioned. It was not only wrong decisions, but there appear to be errors in the system as well. It's been re-established. And now 21 inmates suddenly had to restrict their freedoms and another three were placed back, so we read this morning. Why didn't you tell me before? Has it really only been done with these 24 careless acts? Routine freedoms have been granted on the basis of incomplete dossiers and risk assessments. I can hardly imagine that was only the case with these 24. How is it that the Ministry didn't know these mistakes and vulnerabilities in the system? That's not really conceivable, is it? Since when do detainees themselves determine whether relevant information about them can be transferred to the clinic to which they are transferred? Why wasn't his transfer refused then? How is it that the past of vice got out of the picture? That's just in the verdict, isn't it? That shows that, doesn't it? No one understands this accumulation of mistakes. The recommendations that are made are actually open when you read them: more attention to risks and improving information exchange. Unfortunately, therefore, these recommendations are not self-evident. Why was the death of a young woman necessary to bring these mistakes to light? It really surprises me, because there have been serious accidents before. We have stressed year in, year out that we are concerned about the security of society, the rehabilitation and sharing of information about prisoners. How long have we been talking about the importance of connecting punishment and care? Everyone here always has their mouths full, including the VVD, which has been delivering the responsible ruler since 2010, but all kinds of very important, basic things are just not in order. I just don't understand very much about that. What has the Minister done in concrete terms since he took office to identify and address these problems? And another uncomfortable point. It is said that the system has failed, and so it is, but safety is human work. People have misjudged, people have automatically granted freedoms, people have not or not fully shared files. The deeper question we have to ask today is: why is that? I don't think it's all allowed by the law or by unwillingness. On the contrary. Co-workers are working their asses off. We all know that the cuts in recent years have put enormous pressure on the public sector, especially in the prisons and clinics that we are talking about here. Those were political choices. These have led to staff shortages and a huge workload. There's really no time for anything. The erosion of the public sector has also made hardworking people cynical. It had to be even cheaper, with even fewer colleagues. To what extent, according to the Minister, have the cuts made in recent years contributed to this tragedy? I don't think just extra rules and protocols are gonna help. How are we going to ensure that people who have to do this important and responsible work have the time and space to read files, to retrain themselves if necessary, to really get to know the prisoners and to properly assess the security risks and to act on them? What exactly is the role of money in the clinics? They're private providers. I hear from staff that clinics will rarely send their clients back to prison, even if there is reason to, because this would simply be a loss of income. Can this be true? Does the Minister exclude that there are such perverse incentives that do not serve our security?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u12	During the previous period, we acted rather fiercely together because we were concerned about this whole funding of forensic care. Now I've heard there's an investigation going on from the NZa, but the Justice Department isn't involved. I believe that this is contrary to agreements we have made together with the cabinet. Can the questions put by Mr Van Nispen include that aspect, so that justice is given a role in the analysis of how to finance forensic care?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u13	I welcome this question. I fully agree with Mr Van Toorenburg. A market has been created of care in the past and because punishment and care had to be connected, beds had to be bought and we had a very strange system. We've always been against that. Fortunately, research is now under way, among other things, on this kind of perverse stimuli that I have just mentioned, which may not benefit safety. So I absolutely think it would be weird if we just looked at it from a care angle, because we know that the population that is also in those ggz clinics is getting more and more criminal, more dangerous, more violent. This is very difficult for the staff, but it also poses serious risks to the safety of society. So a good point. Let us indeed put this question to the Minister. Why wasn't the clinic in Den Dolder fully involved in the investigation? And why do they take these recommendations to heart? Why do they not take these recommendations generously? What does the Minister think about the clinic trying to weaken conclusions in the report? Is there any reason to strengthen the supervision of these private clinics or to organise it differently from now on? Hasn't the whole system actually become too complicated? 'Cause who was responsible for the decisions about this guy? Everyone a little, that means no one really. Shouldn't we choose to keep the case officer involved longer, as the ultimate responsible for decisions on the granting of freedoms? Or are there other solutions that the Minister is thinking about, for example the Advisory Committee on Leave Review TBs? And can we not ensure a much greater role for parole, so that all prisoners are placed under surveillance? Because if these reports show anything, then it is that good supervision and treatment of detainees and ex-convicts is very important to prevent recurrence. This therefore contributes to the security of society. Can we trust that everything will be done about this? That people are in the right place, for example in tbs where you don't release people as long as there are risks. With proper treatment, estimated risks, complete files and with sufficient and well qualified staff to do what is needed in prisons and in clinics, so that the safety of society is put first. The government has now failed to protect society and that is very difficult. In doing so, the confidence of many people in the government has again suffered a dent. What is this minister going to do to restore that confidence?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u14	Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u15	Madam President. What terrible things have gone wrong in that treatment of Michael P. and of all those other suspects of serious crimes, convicted of serious crimes. If you read those reports from the Security Research Council, from the inspection, then I think we all get a feeling of indignation. How can this happen? Anger, grief, the pain as well, of course for the next of kin in particular, of Anne Faber, Joost Wolters and others. What's it supposed to mean to them? It is all the more necessary for us as representatives of the people to make every effort to increase this security and to call on the government to do so with vigour and perpetuality. Due to various mistakes and shortcomings in the system of forensic care, Michael P. received all kinds of freedoms that did not fit in with the past. He was mostly seen as a patient, not a sex offender. Attention to sex crimes he had committed had been taken out of the picture and that's exactly what he was serving his sentence for. The safety of society did not play a sufficient role in the assessment. Instead, the focus was on resocialization. Appraisal of freedoms was actually an administrative act, not a substantive assessment based on knowledge of him and his situation. Mr. Chairman. Anyone who sees that in the past did not cooperate in research ensured that you could avoid tbs, that an appeal to privacy was sufficient not to pass on a file, that granted freedoms followed each other at a rapid pace, then you can only conclude that something really is wrong. The government, which is the painful finding, has failed to protect society and so they are not Indian stories, but it is true that, under privacy rules, important information is not taken into account in important considerations and that no serious risk assessment has been made. That is indigestible, because in a rule of law it is not only about the rights of suspects but also about the protection of citizens. That balance has been disturbed. Mr. Chairman. The SGP understands the commitment to return prisoners after serving their sentences. Without such a system, a person could suddenly be completely freed on the street. But if such a system works without supervision or even the constant consultation of all available information is lacking, then there is no responsible care, a responsible treatment. The SGP considers it unacceptable that punishments should be limited to care and that the perpetrators of sexual offences should only be seen as patients or even victims. Mr. Chairman. We would like to hear from the Minister in his own words today how things could go so wrong. When you zoom in on all these separate things, it's understandable what could be behind it. We have gone through all these reports, but I would like to know again: what is the Minister's assessment? How could so much go wrong in this case? How can confidence be restored even to society's confidence that the protection of citizens is taken seriously in the eyes of the minister? Mr. Chairman. I have a number of specific questions. At what point did the Minister start to take improvement measures? What is meant in concrete terms by giving greater weight to social risks in granting freedoms? How can an appeal to privacy among inmates play such a big role? Are there more situations in which the privacy rules stand in the way of security? Is the Minister prepared to clarify this to the Chamber as soon as possible? Has there really been an end to the too easy granting of far-reaching freedoms? Is it now guaranteed that the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Prosecution Service and the Judicial Institutions will always be consulted when determining whether new steps can be taken on freedoms? What concrete improvements are being made to improve the relationship and exchange of information between forensic institutions and municipalities? How is this monitored? How is it that there are no criteria for extending freedoms in forensic psychiatric institutions and that sometimes the reports are only a few lines long? Mr. Chairman. The Minister has taken on board all the recommendations made in the reports and has put forward good measures. That is a good thing. Unfortunately, experience has shown that, in practice, over time, it is easy to get rid of all the institutions that should do something. Think also of the investigation that has been carried out in the case of Bart van U., the murder of Els Borst and the murder of Loïs van U. The Hoekstra committee, which monitored compliance with the recommendations, said: it is not fast enough, there may be a little more urgency. Today, that's not a problem. Today, the urgency is with everyone. I don't doubt that for a second. But what's that like next year? What's that like in two years? That is why I also ask the Minister how he is going to monitor that all recommendations and improvement measures are implemented with determination. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u16	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mr Van Wijngaarden on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u17	Mr. Chairman. When someone close to you leaves home, you want them to come home. But there's one person who never comes home, and that's Anne Faber. No politician can take away the suffering that has been done to her boyfriend, her family and her neighborhood. It's that science that forces us to reflect. A case and investigations into how this was possible are not on their own. They symbolize a forensic care that has been too trustworthy. That's how Joost Wolters' next of kin did their touching story at Eva Jinek's table yesterday. Let the studies therefore become a turning point in the history of forensic care in the Netherlands. When it comes to drawing lessons, a passage printed in the Volkskrant from the contact between the prison in Vught and the clinic in Den Dolder about Michael P. is significant. "He's doing fine. He's psychologically stable, mentorable, goes neatly to his daily use and therapies, gives negative urine tests, and is intrinsically motivated. It's okay to accept him. It's really a model patient." Evil managed to hide here behind a mask of good behavior. In the case of the kind of viper spawn that Michael P. belongs to, it turns out once again that trust is not, but rather distrust is the mother of safety. In addition to being dangerous, some people have been kicked as well and belong for life in a long-stay department for tbs at home and not on the street.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u18	Mr. Chairman. It is, of course, horrible that Michael P. was pretending to be a model patient and that he could go to a very light department, an fpa, and not to a clinic with a heavier regime. But what would have been the reason that this was done from the PI Vught, that they just sent someone to such a lighter ward? What was the incentive behind that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u19	I think it's gone wrong from the start. Michael P. didn't get any TBs at all. How is that possible? Because it paid to refuse to cooperate in behavioral research, because it paid to refuse to give permission to transfer a file from one clinic to another. Those are things that are indigestible, especially in the light of what happened afterwards, those dramatic events.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u20	I totally understand that, and I agree with that, but people are increasingly being transferred to clinics with a very light security regime. Maybe it's cheaper. You can think: there is a kind of drive, there is a reason why there is more and more choice of light settings. Perhaps they are cheaper, but are they the institutions that also have adequate knowledge, expertise and security, precisely to guide the heavy patients?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u21	That is a valid point. We are talking here about the most serious form of violence and sexual offences. It is precisely with those people that I also raised suspicion as a key issue of this kind that you have to be extremely wary. The harder the regime is, the better the employees and the security safeguards are to deal with these kinds of people, to see through them, to look through them, to look behind their masks at what type of people they really are and what risks the environment will run with those people if they are given more freedoms. That is precisely why this person should have been given tbs in the first instance and should not have paid to refuse to cooperate. I would point out that legislation has come into force on 1 January this year which makes it easier to impose TBs, including those who refuse to cooperate. As far as the VVD is concerned, people convicted of this type of crime go straight to the refusal department of the Pieter Baan Centre. That has to be the new standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u22	I would like to ask if I agree with the VVD on tbs........................................................................................................................................................................................ I want to look at this more structuralally. Is the VVD willing to face that and then see if anything should be done about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u23	I indicated at the beginning of my speech that these events and the reports that are now on the table force us to reconsider. That's what Tjibbe Joustra called for. I think we should take his words very seriously. That means a full yes to Mrs Buitenweg's question. Especially in the case of serious sex offenders, the greatest possible suspicion is in place, but all too often the sexual disorder wins it from the person himself. That's exactly why Michael P.T.Bs should've been sued. However, the judge did not impose this and the behavioural investigation that would have been necessary for this never took place. It went wrong right there. For the VVD, society has an infinitely greater right to protection and security than the prisoner has a right to privacy and freedom. Whoever commits a crime loses his right to freedom. Only after serving the sentence, successfully treating the disorder and showing good behavior can a condemned person earn his freedom back. Michael P. has become exemplary for a criminal justice chain that has put the importance of caring for a prisoner too much at the forefront and has therefore underestimated the risk to society. Therefore, let it no longer pay that someone refuses to participate and hand over the treatment file with, mind you, an appeal to his privacy. A greater and more scandalous abuse of a privacy right assumed here by others is almost impossible to imagine. Privacy is entirely subordinate to the importance of society to be protected against criminals with a violent or sexual disorder. Can freedoms committees therefore now assume that the information they receive is complete? How are the roles of the public prosecutor and the probation services systematically and, above all, clearly enshrined in internal protocols and structural training programmes when granting freedoms? Mr Van Nispen has just pointed out this. The distribution of responsibilities and the checks to be checked before anyone is granted freedoms must be crystal clear to the people who have to do the heavy work in forensic care on behalf of all of us. You must now almost be a doctorate attorney to understand the precise role distribution between OM, probation and clinics. The OVV also points to this problem. Can the treatment file be transferred to the regular ggz after completion of a forensic care course in accordance with the advice of GGZ Nederland? Tbs-refusals who have been convicted of a serious violence or sexual offence may, as far as the VVD is concerned, in principle always linea recta to the refusal department of the Pieter Baan Centre and they may be held there until a judgment can be formed on the risk they pose to society. I'd like a response from the Minister. In addition, a person with no TBs, who shows obvious symptoms in prison that are consistent with a violent or sexual disorder, should still be able to be brought forward by the prison director for a forensic-psychiatric investigation, to identify risks and, if possible, to impose TBs on the basis of the new facts that have occurred in prison. On behalf of the PvdA, I would also like a response from the Minister on this point. Tackling the refusers must result in complete treatment information, so that all the facts are on the table with the treatment provider. But the assessment of these facts is still with the traders and the freedoms committees. They must make the difficult assessment of whether someone is ready for more freedom. If such an assessment is to be made under pressure of time, it is likely to be to the advantage of the condemned and possibly to the detriment of society. Also in the case of Michael P., due to the upcoming release, there was a time pressure. The Punishment and Protection Bill finally puts an end to the early release of law and makes the risk to society, the victim's interests and the conduct of the prisoner more important in future. I therefore hope for broad support for this law in this Chamber. Each day that it takes longer for this law to enter into force is a day when traders may feel pressure to give an inmate the benefit of the doubt. Can the Minister promise extra pace in the progress of the Punishment and Protection Bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u24	I see Mr. Azarkan standing by the interrupting microphone, but I'll see if you're almost...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u25	I'm almost done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u26	I would suggest that you conclude this and then Mr Azarkan will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u27	Even in the case of pre-trial TBs there is time pressure, since, when the maximum number of extensions is reached, there is no legal title to extend TBs, even if there is still cause for this from the forensic-psychiatric care, for example because someone has a severe relapse at the end of the total treatment period. Can the Minister amend the legislation in such a way as to make it possible to extend tbs in such serious cases, for example in the form of a hardness clause or rather by deleting the whole article, so that the Tbs are not ready until the convicted person is ready to do so? Mr. Chairman. People who want evil have always been there and will always be there. In the end, it's not about the people who want evil, it's about what we do to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u28	I wonder if the VVD colleague knows the weighted risk report of the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings and Sexual Violence against Children.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u29	Yes, that's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u30	Can the colleague outline the two main conclusions in that report that dates back to February 2017?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u31	I believe that the speaker himself already has an idea of what is written there. I suggest he calls that and then asks his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u32	Mr. Azarkan, what is your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u33	That's a good proposal. My question is very simple. That report explicitly identifies two cases. The first is about assessing the risk. That's what we're worried about. If this happens wrong, this may lead to undertreatment. That's exactly what happened here. The second aspect concerns the exchange of information, communication. My question to Mr Van Wijngaarden of the VVD is: what did the cabinet at the time, what did the ministers at the time do with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u34	I believe that the reports that are now on the table provide a good analysis of what is wrong throughout the criminal justice chain and what are points of improvement throughout the criminal justice chain. If you look at this, you will see that there was systematically too little attention in the criminal justice chain to the importance of society to be protected. Especially in the case of dangerous sex offenders and people convicted of a serious violent crime, you must be extremely wary. Not enough has happened. In cases, no TBs have been imposed where they should have been, because it simply paid to refuse to cooperate in behavioural research. That's something we need to get rid of. Fortunately, new legislation has also entered into force on 1 January of this year. In reply to your question, I say that new legislation has been introduced to make it possible for it no longer pays to refuse your file from one clinic to another. It no longer pays to refuse to cooperate in behavioral research. That's exactly where things went wrong here. That's what we're talking about today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u35	Mr Van Wijngaarden runs away from the question I asked with an answer that is almost as long as his input. It's a very simple question. The report found that we already knew what went critically wrong here. That's what people were responsible for back then. They didn't do anything about it. They did not say that this could lead to major dangers for society with disastrous consequences for families. There's just nothing done with it. They've moved it forward. It wasn't until October that we got a letter about it. It was too late by then. In this report it is clear that the risk is underestimated and that communication is not good enough. Something's got to do with that. We cannot simply say today that there are all kinds of reports and that we must act accordingly. My question to you is: what conclusion do you draw when you see that there was information available that we could have dealt with when that did not happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u36	I come to the conclusion that there are extremely serious lessons to be learned when it comes to how the criminal justice chain works and what importance people attach in practice to working with these dangerous offenders who have been convicted of sexual and violent offences. That's the point. We need to be more vigilant. We need to organize the mistrust towards those people. The importance of security and the importance of society must be given greater importance to be protected from people of this type. Any lesson that needs to be learned from it, I'm prepared to draw.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u37	I think we are very quickly agreeing on a lot of things today. We need to assess risks better. Files need to be shared better. The recommendations have to be taken on board and that is what is happening. It's about security today. Safety, of course, is also human work. We now know from last year's established investigations that the limits have been exceeded. We have warned about this for a long time, and that has happened. There are major staff shortages. Employees have to do their jobs with too few people on a group of the most difficult, most dangerous people there are. The question is whether Mr Van Wijngaarden also acknowledges that the borders have been crossed. What are we going to do to put people in prisons and clinics in the right position in order to do this important work in the interests of the safety of society? They must be given the means and means to do their job in a sufficiently responsible and safe manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u38	Mr Van Nispen mentioned the issue of resources. That's what he mentioned in his contribution. I understand that, too. There are currently cost investigations by the Dutch Healthcare Authority into the way in which forensic care is financed and at the right cost prices, as it is called by an ugly word. I share the point that I actually had myself that this is not just a VWS responsibility. If I'm not mistaken, it's now under the Secretary of State for Health. I would like to know from this Minister how he is involved in these investigations and how he weighs up the results of the reports that are being discussed here today and which are on the table here. That is my answer to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u39	The thrust of my question was as follows. In recent years, forensic care has been cut by EUR 80 million. Of these, 28 million have been returned to us. It is very good that we are going to look at these reports and draw the right conclusions, but my question remains. In the run-up to this debate, I have received a lot of e-mails from people from prisons and clinics who are furious about what has happened here and what has gone wrong here. This should never have happened. Everyone recognizes that. But these people also say: of course, we are immediately being pointed at with an accusing finger again, while the water also comes to our lips and our safety is at stake day in and day out. I hope that Mr Van Wijngaarden will look very seriously at this in the coming period, precisely in the interests of the safety of society. We must enable the people who have to take care of this to do their job properly and carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u40	Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u41	Can I still respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u42	You may respond briefly to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u43	I want to respond to one point. I fully agree with the point that we should not easily point the finger here. We are responsible for the criminal justice chain. We are responsible for the system. We are concerned that we must ensure that risk assessment in the system can be made right and that it is also clear who is responsible for what. That's also a question I have. How's everything we think of here today... Of course, directives have been drawn up before. At that time we also saw that these directives are not followed in all cases, also because sometimes it is simply extremely complex. I've been referring to that for a while. What exactly is the role of who? You have to be a promoted lawyer to be able to make chocolate out of what is the involvement of, for example, the state attorney or the parole board. I would say: when do the protocols come to the wall with the people in the workplace and how is it anchored in the training programmes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u44	Mr Van Wijngaarden says: you must be a doctorate lawyer. I happen to be, but I still don't know about this. But I thought, perhaps that's a way of not actually putting the ball with the minister? I can hear you say a lot of things about the system in general, but I do not hear you about the questions that perhaps there are also to the Minister. We also have a controlling task here. This morning, there was a letter showing that not only 21 people have been deprived of freedoms, but that 3 more people have been sent back to prison and that this had not been reported before due to an administrative error. Does Mr Van Wijngaarden have the idea that we really have everything in view? Does he have faith in that? Does he have faith in the Minister in that respect? Doesn't he think it's crazy that we didn't actually hear that again until this morning?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u45	What is stated in that letter about these people is what should be done systematically in practice: the risk to society and the right of society to be protected from dangerous sex offenders and people with violent interference must outweigh their freedoms. You can see that's what happened here and that's why these people's freedoms are restricted. That's exactly what we want to see from the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u46	So you're actually saying that you think the Minister just did the right thing. We're all talking about the system, too. I think it's important that we not only focus on incidents and that we also look at the system. So I am very pleased with such a broader view, especially in this debate. At the same time, we must also look at and check what has gone wrong here. That is also the subject of the OVV report. So I'm trying to look at that, too. How do you see, for example, the ministerial responsibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u47	I see it as follows. The Minister is very appealing to these reports. He's very approachable to what he's done. That is why we have this debate today. What I want to see is a government that takes lessons. It's terrible when you realize afterwards that Michael P. didn't get any TBs, that he was able to fool around and that he was able to make an almost ridiculous appeal to privacy, which simply cannot be explained to society. I foresee lessons to be learned from these matters. Lessons have already been learned. Legislation has come into force that does something about it. That is the path we must follow, but this will not be the last debate. That also means a great deal of involvement from this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u48	The minister is from the VVD. You are, too. That party has been responsible for this ministry for ten years. In those ten years, there have been many incidents. You just said you'd like to judge what the minister's going to do. But how do you assess this minister's performance in the last year and a half after Mrs Faber was murdered, but also after Mrs Borst was murdered and also after Joost Wolters was murdered? How do you assess the actions of this minister's predecessor? How do you assess the performance of your VVD on this dossier over the past ten years, and in particular that of this minister over the last year and a half?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u49	That's a lot of questions at once. I'm dealing with this minister sitting here today. We have a debate with that today. If I see one thing, it is that lessons are drawn from this, as I have just indicated. I can see that from the letter on the table following the reports that have been published. I see that all the conclusions and recommendations are taken on board. Those aren't empty casings. Those aren't just big words. Those are substantial measures. These are major innovations. I see that new legislation has come into force, which means that it no longer pays to refuse to cooperate in behavioural research. I see that there is legislation that no longer pays to resort to privacy, allowing you as a prisoner to say, "No, my file cannot go from clinic a to clinic b," and which also means that those people have to assess almost half-blindly what kind of risk such a person actually poses to the environment and society. That's what I see. And that's what I'm judging this minister on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u50	You know what I see? I shall come back to that later in my speaking time. I see a minister who has not acted for a year and a half, who has waited for a report from Tjibbe Joustra and who announced a number of measures. How come we see something completely different?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u51	I would like to point out to the speaker that legislation has just come into force from 1 January of this year, which really does address the problems addressed in the reports. So I'd go over the legislation again, if I were you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u52	The question is whether this is an incident or something we could have foreseen. A number of speakers have already mentioned this in their speeches. The conclusion, which some people have already drawn, is that this policy has been. The previous cabinet has cut over 80 million on forensic care and ggz. Experts and employees complained stone and bone. We see in this file that insufficient time has been taken for, among other things, a full intake and that communication is failing. This has simply been the policy of the previous cabinet, which has taken too many risks with society, resulting in deaths. My question to Mr Van Wijngaarden is: how do you view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u53	I think that a lot of things are being thrown into a pile here and mixed together. I don't think that's entirely a choice. The reports on the table clearly show that in a number of cases the existing directives have also not been complied with. So that is independent of resources, because a lack of resources is no excuse not to comply with a directive. At the same time, following questions from Mr Van Nispen, I also indicated that I would like the Minister to remain involved in the results of the NZA's cost investigations and to look at them. I would also point out that this cabinet has added a small 30 million to forensic care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u54	It's getting complicated today to get answers to questions I'm asking. My question was very simple. 80 million has been cut by the previous cabinet. Among other things, the goal was to get lighter forms of treatment, as happened with Michael P.. This is less expensive; it costs less money. But society is taking great risks. I will ask Mr Van Wijngaarden again. How do you look at that risk, which was taken by the previous cabinet, among other things, by a VVD minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u55	When we look at what happened to Michael P., wherever you point, we see that he didn't get any TBs in the first place, where he should have, because it paid not to cooperate in that behavioral investigation. That's where it went wrong, and we have to look at it. I would also point out that the judge himself always has the opportunity to impose TBs. The judge didn't do that here either. Then there was no behavioural investigation, not even against the defendant's will, because it was too difficult. This has become much easier with legislation that came into force on 1 January. That's exactly the way I think we should go. I believe that this is also the direction that the speaker wants to take, because I can assume that it is not up to us at the end of the day to point the finger and throw the mud around, but to make sure that the risk assessment is right for these people and that people do not, therefore, fall into too light a regime, which is rightly pointed out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u56	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u57	Yeah, finally. Those last words were tough: it must be up to the speaker that... What matters to me is the security of society and the fact that we here, including the speaker standing there, have a responsibility in terms of the security of our society. What I am looking at and what a lot of people are looking at is whether this could have been prevented and who have been responsible for this. One of the elements is that there has just been conscious policy. Of course, a lot of things have gone wrong in this dossier that have nothing to do with the fact that money has been taken away, but a number of things have to do with that. People have a responsibility for that. I would therefore ask Mr Van Wijngaarden once again whether he can go into that part and see if he can see if it is perhaps that we have made far too much savings on this and, as a result, put society at too much risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u58	When I look at the policy, at what is on the table here, at what is proposed here by this minister and at the measures, I see very clearly that everything is intended to ensure maximum security for society and to ensure that security comes first, that security comes before privacy, that security comes before the freedoms of a suspect and a convicted person. In the end, it's there to make the risk assessment work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u59	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Markuszower on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u60	Mr. Chairman. It's terrible that Anne Faber isn't here anymore. Raped and murdered, an innocent young woman in the bloom of her life. It is indigestible that this murder and other murders, such as the murder of Joost Wolters, could have been prevented. On behalf of my group, I would like to express my condolences to the family and relatives of Anne Faber and Joost Wolters. It is appalling that we live in a country where the justice chain is so rotten that this could happen. It is frightening for all parents in the Netherlands that the Minister does not take the necessary measures to adequately protect the Netherlands. Today, in this debate, we must consider whether the Minister or his predecessor, Mr Klaas Dijkhoff, could have prevented the murder of Anne Faber and whether this Minister has done enough to protect society since the murder of Anne Faber and since his arrival. The Minister is responsible for the judicial chain. In that chain now a naive faith prevails and the resocialisation of life-threatening killers and rapists outweighs the security of society. The PVV has been calling this out for years, but the Minister constantly waved our criticism away arrogantly. The killer of Anne Faber raped two very young girls very violently in 2010. Are you not ashamed, I ask the Minister, for that Advocate General, who acted under the responsibility of the Minister, who wanted Panhuis to have only nine years? That is seven years less than the judges at first instance had imposed. So only six years, but your D.A. wanted this horrible rapist in jail. Aren't you ashamed that you yourself haven't tightened up the directive for the prosecution since then? Surely you could have imposed on the D.A. that it should never have been allowed to claim less than the sentence initially imposed in the case of rape. Aren't you ashamed of all those people who work among you who have argued that this rapist should automatically receive a third penalty? This allowed this killer to walk freely in the Netherlands much earlier than needed. This allowed him to rape and murder Anne Faber on 29 September 2017. Aren't you ashamed of your prison director who has made every effort to grant this murderer absurd freedoms as soon as possible, against all agreements, laws and regulations? The warden could and should have filed a report for the drug use, violence and other crimes committed by Michael Panhuis in Vught. But instead of pressing charges, and thus keeping Panhuis in prison longer, the prison director lied and, under false pretenses, cheated on him the clinic of unbridled freedoms, the clinic in Den Dolder. Aren't you ashamed that you and your predecessor in this type of rapists and murderers didn't make maximum use of your jurisdiction under Article 15 (5) of the Penitentiary Principles Act? In fact, psychologically disturbed people can be sent to a psychiatric hospital by the Minister. This may be considered necessary for as long as necessary. So you could have kept this creepy rapist in a closed facility even without a judicial imposition of tbs, but you failed to do so. And you're still gonna leave this to similar psycho rapists and murderers. You're not the Secretary of Law. You protect the deranged criminals, but not the daughters of the Netherlands, not Dutch society. Shameful. The structural mistakes and the prevailing culture in the organization put many people in danger today. Because how many Dutch people don't live or work near one of the dozen clinics where these kinds of monsters like Panhuis are free? How many schoolchildren don't ride past a zoo where these scary killers and rapists are hiding? As long as the Minister does not dismiss all those prison directors and all those treatment staff and all those officials who have failed in this dossier and the other files that we have discussed today, the Minister cannot, of course, answer these questions with certainty. What am I blaming the Minister for? He knew about the mess in his chain and didn't act. In addition, he misinformed the Chamber. Furthermore, he did not make full use of all his powers to keep Panhuis and other panhouses out of society. The Minister misinformed the Chamber in his reply to my parliamentary question of 27 November 2017. He wrote that in awarding leave, the safety of society is paramount and that every leave step is evaluated before a further step is taken. Pertinent incorrect and false, according to the OVV report. Because there is a direct link between the Minister's policy and the murder of Anne Faber, responsibility must be taken and action must be taken. The Minister must withdraw all outstanding engagements until he has checked all the clinics and TBs institutions of the Netherlands, until all responsible and failing officials, treatment officers, prison directors and psychiatrists have been dismissed and replaced by people who consider the safety of society more important than the freedoms of the most dangerous murderers and rapists in the Netherlands. We must have a minister who does not stand up for the criminals, but for the daughters of the Netherlands. Honestly, I doubt Sander Dekker could become such a minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u61	I hear Mr Markuszower is just very angry. I recognize that. I don't know if it's the best tone, but sometimes a tone like that... I understand, because, of course, it's ridiculous what happened. I would like to ask the PVV the following. We read all these reports; everyone comes to the conclusion that if this man had gotten tbs, this was the only thing that might have mattered. The PVV wants to abolish the TBs. Unfortunately, we can never put anyone who commits a terrible crime in prison for the rest of his life. I wonder why the PVV is constantly calling for the abolition of the TBs, while all the expert reports show that this tragedy might have been prevented if this man had had tbs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u62	This tragedy was really prevented if Michael Panhuis had been sentenced to life imprisonment or a prison sentence of 60 years or 80 years in 2010. He wouldn't have let go of society. Instead, Michael Panhuis received a very light sentence. And not just that. He automatically got a third penalty discount. And not just that. Even before that penalty discount started, he was allowed to go to a clinic despite bad behavior, he was already allowed to go to a clinic that was not a clinic, but where he enjoyed unbridled freedoms. A tbs might work in theory if the people in those clinics, the doctors and the psychiatrists, were to function, but they don't function. They're lying to the minister. They say someone can go on leave, and they can't go on leave at all. So also in a world in which TBs would exist but in which the people who make this minister operate in the places in those TBs clinics, the TBs do not work at all. It's a theoretical possibility that doesn't work in practice right now. That is why I call for all the engagements to be withdrawn. I agree with you: as long as we have TBs, it may be a brake on convicted people who have been in prison too short. But with the people who are now working in the clinics and who should have been fired by this minister for a long time, the TBs treatment is not working at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u63	We agree that the TBs clinics and forensic care have been underwhelmed. We also agree on the need to invest in it, and we also agree that terrible mistakes have been made. But if we pretend here, even for our audience, that anyone who commits an aggressive rape can be imprisoned for the rest of his life, then we are really fooling people. That is why I find it remarkable that now also from the PVV comes the sound that as long as we have the TBs, which may be functional. Because we also have to dare to say that the only system in the Netherlands that still works a bit and where the relapse rates are extremely low is our TBs. So that's something we need to cherish. We should not abolish it, as the PVV keeps saying, because then we get a lot more Michael P.'s.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u64	That wasn't a question, but you can respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u65	"Recident" is, of course, a euphemism for murder and rape. 'Cause there's a relapse rate. I'm not the only one who thinks some rapists can't be treated. Some killers can't be treated. For example, there was an article about this in NRC Handelsblad. Two professors are quoted here. They say, "Some rapists and murderers cannot be treated." So we shouldn't be treating them, Mrs. Van Toorenburg. We're gonna have to put him in jail for life.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u66	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u67	And that's why we have about 37 people in the longstay right now. Only TBs can ensure that people who are actually dangerous do not come out. There are people there who can see if someone is dangerous. They can judge that. That's the only reason I think: let's nurture our TBs system. There's that longstay too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u68	As long as the minister doesn't fire those responsible for failing psychiatrists, traffickers, prison directors and parole officers, there's no proper supervision of enough people staying in the longstay. That is why this is not the holy grail for the safety of the Netherlands. That's one. I hope that Mrs Van Toorenburg will also press for the dismissal of all those failing traders in all those clinics. Then maybe we could see if more prisoners could be taken to such a long-stay ward. But the TBs as they are now set up are a system of lots of engagements. That's what we saw at Michael Panhuis. That wasn't a TBs situation, but it was a continuation of it. The current system monitors many engagements. You're not in the clinic yet, or you're already being sent on leave, without the leave being approved at all. The system isn't working right now. If Mrs Van Toorenburg does not want to acknowledge that, unfortunately, we will be standing here very often in the same kind of debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u69	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u70	Madam President. I reread the interview in de Volkskrant of 26 May 2018 with Anne Faber's father, about how he himself went out to investigate and ended up at the clinic where Michael P. was treated. It goes through your marrow and leg. You're gonna be in his shoes anyway. The murder of Anne Faber is not on its own. In May 2018, the Justice and Security Inspectorate wrote a letter about another very serious incident with a TBs during a withdrawal. When I reread the letter, there was only one conclusion to be drawn: it seems one-on-one like the case that has led to this debate. The inspection stated in May 2018 that the phase-out of leave was too rapid. Insufficient attention was paid to the transfer between the sending and receiving departments. Risk management was too general and less focused on specific risk factors. They had disappeared into the background. There wasn't enough forensic sharpness. So far. Why didn't the Minister then take the package of measures he's taking now? Why didn't they cancel the engagements then? Why not now, after a report from the Research Council? These are reports on which ministers are killed. Is the minister mostly concerned with his own business? The Minister said in November 2018: "I think we can all be proud of a special system of forensic care. This is firstly because our system puts effective treatment first." Remember, that was over a year after Anne Faber's murder, after numerous articles about abuses in the clinic, with sex and drugs. It was six months after an analysis of the inspection of another very serious incident and one month after an article stating that it is still chaos in Den Dolder. My group puts the safety of society first. The Minister also said in November: in assessing the risk of recurrence, scientific risk assessment tools are actually used which have proved their worth in predicting effects. How does that relate to the Research Council which states that there is no agreement on an appropriate instrument? Why didn't the minister know there was no agreement? How could he have missed that? You'll just be in the shoes of Anne's parents, family and all the other relatives. Mr. Chairman. Leave during a forensic care course entails risks. My group therefore proposes to use a GPS ankle band as a standard during all engagements, at any stage of re-socialization. Keep an eye on them. The least you can do is know where they are. When Michael P. was transferred, the clinic noted that his sentence was very severe for the crime. The clinic called the prison and was told that Michael P. is a model patient. That should have been better figured out before he was transferred and given him all kinds of freedoms. The Minister is now proposing measures to improve this. My group wants an emergency brake, a red flag raised as soon as a professional smells trouble on the basis of his experience. Then the trajectory stops until there is complete clarity. Such a red flag is not ironed and replaced by a green flag until it has been picked to the bottom. During the transfer from the prison to the clinic, a lot of things go wrong. Has it ever been considered within the Justice Department to start a forensic clinic of their own, so their own forensic care facility, a clinic where security is central? Mr. Chairman. Finally, let us talk about ministerial responsibility. It is remarkable that this minister said before this debate that he did not quit because he was not a minister at the time of the murder. It is not the case in our democratic rule of law that the ministerial responsibility falls when a new minister comes into office. The murder of Anne Faber was the result of incomplete information, a careless risk assessment, too much speed in resocialisation and too many unsupervised freedoms and so on. You'll just be in the shoes of the father, the mother, the family and all the other next of kin. It is all a matter of ministerial responsibility. Ministerial responsibility is not tied to one person; it runs from one minister to another. This also applies to matters that were the responsibility of a predecessor. Ministerial responsibility gives Parliament the opportunity to control public administration. Parliament will decide what penalty is necessary, because without sanctions there will be no law, no rule of law. We ask the Minister how he sees the ministerial responsibility. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u71	Thank you, Mr. Krol. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Michael P. took his first steps in freedom without any notion to what extent that was justified. By placing the emphasis on care, safety was completely out of the picture. Decisions on freedoms were taken remotely and from behind an agency, without the decision-makers having any idea of the risks lurking. These are harsh conclusions in an even rawer reality. Michael P. used his freedom to take the life of a young woman who wanted to ride another bike. From this place we also express our condolences to the family and that also extends to the family of Joost Wolters because this case has so horribly many similarities with what went wrong with Michael P. But if it's not all that bad, Michael P.'s detention course is also characteristic of the lack of visibility of high risks throughout the system of forensic care. But let's face it: the misery of course has begun, and I would like to stress that here again, because Michael P. got a lower sentence on appeal and no TBs. Then one had to row with the belts that one had. And that's a flawed system, in which you can treat, but limited, with a deadline of time. There has then been an attempt to reverse the danger, but crucial mistakes have been made and responsibilities have not been properly addressed. Measures have now been taken, for example in relation to those reluctant observers. We've been pleading for it for years. I remember as the day yesterday that we had a conversation with Henk Donkersteeg, the father of a seven-year-old abducted and abused girl. It's been too long, actually. But what I found quite disgusting is that not even everything has been arranged. The Forensic Care Act may have entered into force, but I read that the rule on the basis of which information can be taken into account to arrive at a TBs has still not entered into force. I want that to be rushed. I would like a response from the Minister. In his letter, the Minister rightly mentions the Long-Term Supervision Act and Article 2.3 of the Forensic Care Act. These are arrangements to ensure that treatment and supervision continue. That's essential. We have insisted on this for a reason. But there's more to it. The Minister adopts the conclusions of both the OVV and the inspections and strengthens the policy. But I still have that thought: how can it be that the crime analysis and risk assessment have been so inadequate? And how could this sex problem get in the background like that? It is also incomprehensible that freedoms have been granted on the basis of incomplete papers. For years, we have been stressing that the risks must be better assessed and decisive when it comes to whether or not someone should be allowed to go free. Then, as the Minister does now in his letter, we can settle it further, but I really wonder if that's enough. Shouldn't we organise more robust independent supervision? I am thinking, for example, of the Advisory College on leave assessment TBS. They have the expertise on serious personality issues and therefore know how to decide on freedoms. I really wonder if we shouldn't give them a role. Because the Minister is actually rigging up the Committee on Freedom, Justice and Home Affairs, but there are still no experts in that. Then he puts something down at the state's attorney's office. I wonder if the D.A. has sufficient expertise in psychiatry. He's giving a bigger role to the warden. It was me, and I wasn't an expert psychiatrist. So maybe we'll put it down to the wrong people. That is why I ask the Minister: does he want to look at the Advisory College on leave assessment TBS? Then there is the appalling lack of information sharing. It is a good thing that the Minister is designing a basis, but let's face it: as long as Michael P. was serving his sentence in another institution, couldn't that information have just been shared? I do not really understand that people are hating a little as if they were not allowed to do so. I think it was a long time ago. I would like to know from the Minister whether that is true and whether it is only necessary to spell it out. 'Cause I think it's really weird to think that if someone's in your custody and he's temporarily out of something, then suddenly there's no more information to be shared. I don't recognize it either. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u73	Can I perhaps agree to this question? I would like to add: what exactly did Den Dolder know about Michael Panhuis' past of sex? I understand a medical file couldn't be shared entirely. I agree with Mrs Van Toorenburg that, of course, that should have been possible and perhaps could have been. And if it can't be done, then the Minister must take action. But I also understood from the media that Den Dolder was sure to know that there was a history of sex and that Michael Panhuis had been punished for Dutch concepts. I even understand that in Den Dolder's treatment plan there was also a treatment for risky sexual behavior, but that treatment was not carried out. So I'd like to add: what exactly did Den Dolder know about Michael Panhuis' past of sex?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u74	I'll pass it on to the minister. What I found remarkable in the piece about this is that this forensic psychiatric department apparently didn't even do an intake because they weren't paid for it. "Hello?!" I guess. You get someone in your institution, you want to know what kind of meat you have in the cockpit? Then you want to know those files, don't you? Even though the PC would have missed that, I think that's weird, but well, then you're still looking at why someone is locked in and what makes you take steps in that? Those are legitimate questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u75	Mrs Van Toorenburg points out that she finds it incomprehensible that there was no proper exchange of information, which she believes could be done. This is also the way in which debates on privacy and security have often been conducted with the government in the past. With the GDPR, the General Data Protection Regulation, we also discussed it: it can't be that...? It's been said over and over again, no, it's not. But if, in practice, it clearly raises a lot of discussion or is unclear, is it simply not very important that there are crystal clear legal grounds, so that once and for all it is clear that privacy cannot be a reason not to share certain information?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u76	That is why I say that it is a good thing for the Minister to come up with a basis, but I am also a little hesitant about it. Because is everyone gonna stop thinking, to see if he has a basis for giving information, or do we take our own responsibility as directors in this country, including in a clinic? If you have someone in your home who committed such a terrible crime and then commits a series of crimes in your institution and if you're going to hand him over to another clinic, then you have to ask yourself: what do all these people need to know to get to work with him? Then how come a clinic gets someone in and says, "We don't do intake, because we don't get paid for it?" At some point it's okay to settle it, but let's also say here in this house that everyone, administrators and policy makers, has a responsibility to do just one step more than what is perhaps obvious and gets tapped in your face.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u77	I totally agree that everyone should take responsibility and not say too scaredly: oh, can this really be done? But despite the fact that we have been in agreement on this for ten years or more, people seem to think regularly: but that is not possible. Apparently there are also advisors who say: well, it's unclear if it's possible, so be careful. Would it not help to try to end these discussions once and for all by giving very broad powers so that no one can hide behind the interpretation of certain detailed rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u78	It's fine that that arrangement is being made, but I also think that even if there is no such arrangement, you should just do it when you have that responsibility. Let's be honest, what was the worst thing that would have happened? That someone told you you shouldn't have shared that information? Then you say sorry, but then you shouldn't have said sorry as much as you do now, because a life has been taken away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u79	As Mr Van Toorenburg said, there is no intake because there is no payment against it. There's no money. That money's been taken away. Now the CDA voted against the Justice and Security budget in 2014, literally because it felt that irresponsible risks were being taken with society due to the cuts in the judicial sector and the security chain. My question to Mrs Van Toorenburg is: is the result of these irresponsible risks that we have now seen, namely deadly victims?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u80	We said at the time: 'it cannot be done' against the whole system and that is why we drew that line. I find it too easy to say that because of the lack of finance, this tragedy has taken place. I think that's too easy. Once again, Mr Van der Staaij asked me rightly that some things could have just been done; that is not at all about money. I also find when an institution gets someone that you're obviously doing an intake. So I don't know if you can really say that that's what's happening. It is, however, for us to insist that investment is made. That is also why we have said together with the SP: look at the entire funding of this forensic care, because it is not a good thing for us, with that purchasing crazyness, which indeed gives you this kind of situation. Once again, we have said 'this cannot be done', but I am not going to say that this tragedy has been carried out by itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u81	I agree with Mrs Van Toorenburg: there is, of course, no one-to-one correlation between the fact that when the CDA voted against because of the increasingly hollowed-out costs, the funding. But they were talking about "unresponsible risks" at the CDA. I am curious to see what the CDA means by "unaccounted risks" and where they can lead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u82	They can cause a total system of justice to vibrate when something happens. That's what you're seeing. That is why we have said: investment must therefore be made. And that is why, not only with that budget, we have also in the previous period very much insisted on investments after all kinds of incidents at De Woenselse Poort, at De Rooyse Wissel. It goes on and on; then we said: we need to look at that ggz. Eventually, after long hauling, pushing, pulling, stomping, biting, the cabinet started to invest in that forensic care. So it's all been very complicated, but I can't say again that "unresponsible" made this happen. We thought it was important to make a very clear statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u83	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u84	Yeah, finally. Thank you also for the commitment to making society safer. The fact is that choices were made then, of course. Mr Van Toorenburg points out that the judicial sector, the security chain, was shaking. Then there are choices made with risks, "unresponsible," as the CDA says. Then this can happen. These have been political considerations, which I would like to give you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u85	There were political considerations that we have therefore made which have led us to vote against this budget, because we did not think it was possible to do so. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u86	Mrs Van Toorenburg continues to argue, even in an interruption just against me, but also in this debate or in her speech, towards that psychiatric care, towards the institutions. I think Mrs Van Toorenburg is trying to turn a cat into a mouse. And I am simply asking: does Mrs Van Toorenburg not finally agree with us that the real solution is to impose higher penalties, mínimum sentences, minimum sentences, sometimes for life or 60 years? That really protects society, doesn't it? How can the CDA keep believing in those fairy tales, that you're turning a cat into a mouse, that you can turn a madman into a normal functioning person in the end?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u87	Mr. Chairman. For a lot of crimes, we think that the punishments should go up. But I also know that some people can do terrible things and eventually be disturbed and need treatment. Then I am proud of a system in which, in addition to the prison system, we also have a TBs system in which someone is treated and released only when it is safe. So we can pretend here that anyone who rapes someone is then locked up for the rest of his life, but again, then we're just fooling society. I'm not in on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u88	Then why doesn't Mrs Van Toorenburg at least argue that the people who have failed, the psychiatrists who are treating them, the prison director, should be dismissed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u89	We are not here in the House of Representatives about the dismissal of people at the Judicial Institution Office or at the ggz. And, apart from the fact that we are not talking about this, I would not find it fair to say it so easily, because we know with each other that is actually the little debate I had with DENK that we have just made this whole sector a mere financial deficit over the past period. The water was on the lips of the prison system. Everyone was just closing cells and not investing in where it was supposed to happen, including in the forensic psychiatric wards. So we should have done something about that. For lack of time, the judges were not at each other's service. Due to lack of money at the parole hearing, they were not present at reviews. Then I think: then I can fire someone, but I better make sure that the people who have the responsibility can also take that responsibility. You can take care of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u90	If there's less money, you have to be more careful and not put dangerous criminals out on the street. The prison director now earns more than in 2010. He lied. The treating psychiatrist in Den Dolder now earns more than in 2010 or in 2014, so the problem has not been there. Why don't you just plead for the dismissal of those failing doctors? Only then can you speak of a cleansed culture. It is true that we are not dealing with direct redundancies, but as a Chamber we are dealing with the functioning of the minister. Mrs Van Toorenburg cannot disagree with me that the organisation under the minister is not functioning now? How does Mrs Van Toorenburg ensure that the weather works if she does not even plead for the firing of the failing doctors, of that lying prison director in Vught, who now earns more than in 2014?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u91	I don't recognize myself in words like "lie." I'm not in on that. What I said was that we are not here about firing people in the executive services. If the Minister sees that as a reason, he certainly has to, but I think it is important that we ensure that people can take responsibility. We could hardly do that, and now we have to make sure that we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u92	Do I hear Mrs. Van Toorenburg is protecting that prison director? He certainly lied. He said that Michael Panhuis was an exemplary prisoner and that Den Dolder could easily accept him, while the OVV also concluded that there were crimes committed in that prison by Michael Panhuis: drug use, sexual behavior, violent incidents. The warden didn't report that to Den Dolder. In fact, he lied about that. Doesn't Mrs. Van Toorenburg call that lying? Does Mrs Van Toorenburg hold that prison director, like the minister, over his head?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u93	The problem has been that there was a file of all sorts of things that had not gone well, where this person apparently managed to pull some things off. Then what you're left with is an exemplary convict. Of course, it hasn't been an exemplary prisoner. Of course, it should never have been passed on like this. That was also my point in the interruption debate with Mr Van der Staaij. All the information should have been passed on. Then that conclusion could never have been drawn. Indeed, such a conclusion is, of course, very strange when you look at that man's behavior.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u94	It's called lying, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u95	He's been able to keep a few things away from throwing up. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u96	Indeed, the CDA and the SP often pull together when it comes to the problems for staff in prisons and clinics. We are now trying to undo the excessive cuts in the past. But the investments in forensic care are actually quite lean. We should also see what we're gonna do with the prisons. Perhaps Mrs Toorenburg can say something about that. Another aspect with regard to staff has to do with control. I received an e-mail this morning, which also has to do with the pricacy aspect of a group of people who have been working in prisons for years, who have had a lot of experience and who have raised at least ten times since 2010 up to the highest level that it cannot be that you cannot share files because an inmate relies on privacy. How can Mrs Van Toorenburg say that perhaps we should also ask the Minister that the Ministry has not listened to this all along and that such signals, with obvious risks to the security of our society, have not been taken seriously?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u97	That is a good question for the Minister, because I also know that it happens very often. I know that even if it beeps and cracks and someone says that he doesn't want that information to be shared, it happens all the time. But apparently there are also institutions in which that line is taken very strictly, so that these people cannot share information. If these signals get through to you, I do think it is important for the Minister to go inside and see what makes it difficult for him to get to the station in such a culture.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u98	That's okay, but I'd like to broaden it a little bit. If you look at the final recommendations of the Security Research Council, these are such obvious recommendations that you should almost be ashamed that they still need to be made today, while we have been paying attention for years to the importance of monitoring prisoners, dangerous people, the importance of a gradual return to society, in a responsible way, precisely in order to prevent victims. It is actually embarrassing that today we still have to debate the importance of data exchange and the importance of a good risk assessment. The broader question is how can all these signals, these kinds of vulnerabilities in the system, which allowed these mistakes to be made, only now become known to the Ministry. Is the system too complicated? How does Mrs Van Toorenburg view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u99	I've read the Justice Department's report in detail three times. It clearly states that a number of measures had already been taken. Previously, there was hardly any knowledge of the crime and risk analysis. A few months before Michael P.'s passage to the forensic clinic, it was finally decided that those analyses had to be made. During that period, therefore, a number of measures were taken, but what goes wrong in this terrible case is that once the crime analysis has been made, one does not give to such a forensic clinic. Then you're talking about mistakes of people who don't see what to do. They should have just taken one more step. So we should not make the picture as if nothing had happened, because the risk analysis and the crime analysis have been introduced in recent years, but still insufficient. That's why I'm so critical of it, because if it could have been done already, then in the end you shouldn't leave responsibility with the same officials, with the same committee, with the same probation, with the same prosecutor. Then I think you should force strange eyes. That is why I say: bring in the Advisory Committee on TBs, because that is the only one that has proven itself. Then I come back to Mr Van Nispen's question about what else I think of the prison system. I'd like to take a quick look at that. We've made an inventory of the forensic psychiatric ward. There's a lot to be done there. There must also be investment, improvement plans must be made, but I do not see that in the penitentiary psychiatric centres, the PPCs. I also think we should see what we're doing there. How is it that the crime analysis was finally almost completely muffled away and that information was passed on that wasn't right? Perhaps we should use the same committee as at the time the Fisher Commission, perhaps a separate committee, which will examine the PPCs to ensure that they can handle the things they need to do. We are increasingly dealing with disturbed people and we see that the prisons are not sufficiently equipped. Finally. On the long-term schedule of the House of Representatives there is also a debate on, as I have already said, a similar issue: a psychiatric patient on leave brought a father of an eight-month-old child with knife marks to his death on a moving subway. It was a bizarre display. It was frightening. This family is here, too. There are several investigations into what happened, but we see things that are the same. Authorities have missed signals. Risks haven't been assessed. Information is not shared. Leave policy has been extended too quickly. Information was not shared because the patient had not given permission to do so. Those are disturbing signals. We know we're still getting the inspection report. My group wants the OVV to be involved, not to do everything in the extension once again, on the contrary, but if the inspection comes with a report, then I want us to include the lessons of the OVV. In that context, too, we can discuss what is still lacking in the measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u100	I think that is an excellent suggestion from Mrs Van Toorenburg. I will go through you, President, and ask if Mrs Van Toorenburg is aware of the following. I understand the inspection doesn't have access to the report the AMC has already drawn up. Are you aware of that and isn't that weird? Should we not include this in the suggestion you have just made?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u101	That is a very clever way of actually exposing that the OVV might be able to bring up more information, because it has another competence. The OVV could therefore also look at this in this case and force more information to be disclosed. That must be done, Mr President, because it is only then that we can see whether the measures that are now being proposed will ultimately make a difference for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u102	That seems to me to be a good thing, and that is why I am using this question for a moment, so that we can pass it on to the Minister with the question of whether he will take that with him, whether he will be aware of it and whether we will be able to deal with it by means of a wide-ranging investigation by the OVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u103	Thank you, Mrs Van Toorenburg. Before I give the floor to Mr Azarkan, I would like to suspend the sitting for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u104	I give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Whatever we do here, whatever words we say, whatever responsibility we take, it never brings back Anne Faber, Joost Wolters and other victims. The families and society have lost them forever, and the families have to deal with this emptiness for a long time to come, even after we have had another debate for a long time. Mr. Chairman. The three reports on Michael P. are staggering, shocking, unimaginable and poignant. The Safety Research Council concludes a lack of direction, lax attitudes and a lousy information transfer. This cannot and must not be without consequences. The seriousness of these mistakes, the great suffering of the families and the compromised trust in the government must be restored. It's particularly serious that Michael P. could go and stand wherever he wanted, without any supervision of what he was doing, what he was doing and what he was doing. The most striking feature of this case is the many critical errors of judgment and carelessness, especially at the establishment in Vught and the ggz-clinic in Den Dolder. "Michael P. is doing fine, is psychologically stable, well accompanimentable, goes neatly to his daily use and therapies; a boy you really won't have a problem with." So he was commended to come away from him, so that the handover could be done. That's how this ticking time bomb ended up in a half-open clinic from prison. Mr. Chairman. One of today's central issues is the transfer of information between the p.i. and the ggz setting. That went completely wrong. The p.i. gave a much too rosy picture and the ggz setting just didn't do an intake because they weren't paid for it. It is unclear why the transfer of information has not been properly carried out. We spent years as a government working on the electronic patient file. Why isn't there an electronic offender file? The criminal and medical record should follow such perpetrators as their own shadow and it should be impossible for information to be left behind or withheld somewhere. Mr. Chairman. Extra painful and a blow in the face of the next of kin have been the actions of the ggz clinic. It was busy reducing the conclusions and deploying executives to send the employees to the interview. That board should be deeply ashamed. What action has the Minister taken in these institutions? After all, they have deliberately failed in a matter of life and death. I would like a comprehensive response from the Minister to this. Mr. Chairman. The crucial question for my group is: how should we indicate this tragic event? Is it an incident? Could this have been prevented? Who took what responsibility in this? What kind of danger has society run? How could officials and the minister have acted differently and acted differently? In February 2017, the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings issued an opinion on the risk analysis of sex offenders, the "Weighted Risk" report. This highlighted the risk of undertreatment through incomplete communication of the risk of recurrence. I quote: 'We do not correctly determine how dangerous every sex offender is. This could lead to undertreatment, which could mean new victims," said the National Rapporteur. Mr. Chairman. What did the then Minister and Secretary of State for Justice, Stef Blok and Klaas Dijkhoff do? As far as we can tell, nothing. Nothing at all, except to transfer it to the next cabinet. How is this possible, Mr. Chairman? What will the current Minister do with this advice? How does the Minister view the move of his fellow ministers? This case isn't on its own. There is also an investigation into the tragic death of Joost Wolters by suspect Philip O. who was on leave from a psychiatric facility. We are dealing here with a failing system; a system in which the security of society has not been adequately taken into account. But this system is a summing up of choices by Cabinets and Ministers. For us it's clip-and-ready. In the Rutte cabinet, 80 million has been cut, including forensic care. Perpetrators had to be treated with lighter forms of care, exactly what happened to Michael P., which had to be cheaper. For years, experts and aid workers have been calling and warning them of the disastrous consequences. The consequences of this disastrous choice of Rutte and his ministers are staff shortages, insecurity among employees, an unsafe society and now also deadly victims. Mr. Chairman. One plus one is two. Under the leadership of Prime Minister Rutte, the cabinet played Russian roulette with society with these political choices. It wasn't or just when it would go wrong. In our rule of law, the Minister is responsible for errors of services falling under their political responsibility, regardless of whether they could have personally changed anything about them, even if they were not ministers at the time. I remember Minister Piet Hein Donner leaving after the Schiphol fire in 2006 because the conclusion was that there would have been fewer or no casualties if the authorities had paid more attention to safety. He said that the debate would be obstructed if I stayed on, then it would be about my position rather than about the subject that really should be discussed. I see many parallels, public services that have failed to protect society, resulting in deaths. I call on the Minister to take his responsibility and resign.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u106	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Grothuizen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A deafening image emerges from the reports on the Michael P case. A succession of errors, errors, errors, misjudgements, deficiencies in the exchange of information and the lack of a good warm transfer between institutions leads to a harsh conclusion. The government has failed to protect society, the core task of the government. I can only imagine that those conclusions must be terrible for the family and friends of Anne Faber and Joost Wolters. Our thoughts and deepest sympathy therefore go out to them today in the first place. The system of forensic care is intended to treat people convicted of a criminal offence for a mental illness and thus prevent them from going wrong again. They're often very dangerous people. You'd expect an oiled machine. The opposite is true, however. In the case of Michael P., a wrong balance was struck between the importance of protecting society as best as possible and the importance of resocialisation. Mr. Chairman. This Minister immediately announced a series of measures. I can generally agree with what he is proposing. I note, however, that many of these measures have already been put into effect. The proposals seem logical and obvious in themselves, often so obvious that this self-evident feeling is again uncomfortable. However, the question arises as to whether there is no longer a problem. How come at so many different times so many different people have made wrong choices, I ask the Minister? Is that lack of forensic sharpness, as can be read somewhere, or is there a deeper cause? At first we had the Amsterdam metro murder, but the D66 Group is also thinking about the murder of Els Borst and the report that the Hoekstra Committee has written about it; a matter that you understand is particularly painful for our group. In that case, the Bart case of yours, he wasn't taken in while he had himself indicated he wasn't doing well. The Public Prosecutor's Office, the police and the ggz had at crucial times when they could and should not have access to necessary information, but also to each other. It wasn't an incident there either. Comparing tragic events is always difficult, because there are countless differences. But all these things do raise the question of whether there is something structuralally wrong in the safety and care chain. It raises the question of whether we give the people who work in it enough space to do their job as a professional, whether the workload is not too high, whether staff turnover is not too high and whether the accountability bureaucracy has not been completely out of control. I would like to hear the Minister's views on these points on a point-by-point basis. Mr. Chairman. Another agreement lies in the question of who actually owns the complex cases, cases of complex and dangerous people, and cases where several organisations are involved and need to cooperate. Seamless cooperation and smooth interaction are required, but they often seem to be lacking in such cases. I would like to hear from the Minister how he sees it and, in particular, what role he sees as a system responsible for himself. The fact that we have to read in a letter today about three previously unreported cases only makes that question more pregnant as far as I am concerned. Because how could that happen? Mr. Chairman. I know that the Minister spent extra money in the autumn on forensic care, and I also know that he is working on a programme to tackle unnecessary bureaucracy. But how is the Minister going to ensure that these announced measures do not lead to additional bureaucracy? A culture of too many rules often leads to non-compliance with existing rules. In that sense, too many rules are as deadly as too few rules. Mr President, I will conclude. Working with inmates with mental problems is complex and difficult. It's mentally hard, it can be physically heavy, and it can even be dangerous. What is needed, above all, is sufficient capacity, quality and knowledge. And yet there's no guarantee that it can't go wrong. However, society must be able to rely on public authorities to limit the number of errors. This improvement does not require any apparent action, but rather a structural improvement in the system. The case Michael P. has seriously damaged society's confidence in security, justice and care. The Minister will have to do everything in his power to regain that trust. As far as I am concerned, that is the prime task of the Minister for Legal Protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u108	Did I hear correctly that Mr Grothuizen said: that raises the question of whether something is structurally wrong? That's exactly what the report concludes, isn't it? Would it not help if one of the supporting groups of this government, one of the coalition parties, acknowledged that something is structurally wrong? Because it starts with the recognition that something is structurally wrong? If you have to ask a question about this now, then we will not come to any solutions today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u109	I understand Mr Markuszower's point. I ask that question, but I think you have been able to derive from the rest of my speech that the answer to that question seems to me to be: yes, there is a structural problem in the workload, in the lack of knowledge and in the lack of space that people have. But I also always like to debate the possibility that the conclusion I have or the image I have could not be right. That is why I am asking and I am open to all those who look at it differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u110	Do you have any doubts about the harsh conclusions of the report? Again, the report states that something is structurally wrong. Why doesn't the D66 take that one-on-one?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u111	The reports describe what went wrong. I don't doubt that, and I'll take it from here. The question I have asked, which I believe is crucial, is that several colleagues have asked the question: what is the underlying cause of it? How is it that people haven't looked past their noses time and time again, to speak a little in the words of Mrs Van Toorenburg? Because that, in my opinion, is the essence of this case. People have never bothered to think: who do I actually have in front of me and is this all right? If that extra step had been taken, could we not have prevented it? The question is what lies behind it. My feeling is: the problems that have accumulated in recent years in forensic care and in prison, and much wider in justice. But I think it is so neat to keep room in a debate for people to have a different perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u112	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u113	Thank you, Madam President. It was horrible and embarrassing to read the OVV report. My heart goes out to the family of Anne Faber, her brother, her sister, the parents, yes, I get emotional about it myself and also to those of the other victims, who again and again this week are confronted with their nightmare. In my opinion, everyone actually feels the weight of the debate and why it is particularly difficult to do this properly. It is almost unbelievable how horrific the government has failed by an accumulation of human errors in a system and a system that actually made making those mistakes extra easy. One of the most incomprehensible mistakes, one of the most incomprehensible facts, is that prisoners can get leave, go outside without a risk assessment of the danger of this person to society, without a complete picture of this person, without advice from the Public Prosecutor's Office and probation, and without victims being able to prepare for a possible unwanted meeting. That's what we need to relate to today. There's a lot to say. Let me begin with the department directly under the responsibility of the Minister, the Division of Individual Affairs. He decides on the placement in a clinic and the corresponding freedoms. The OVV report shows that officials do not receive enough information to do their job properly and that they do not ask for it either. The service is a stamp machine. When did the minister know? Officials work on the basis of NIFP indications, but there is often no conversation with the inmate and no analysis of the risks and the crime scenarios. If I understand correctly, the Minister wants to change that. That is good in itself, but from when did he know that decisions are taken without sufficient expertise and insight into the person? Hasn't this point ever been discussed in the Ministry before? I don't think so. I would like an answer to that. I understand that the Minister now wants to repel his role in the leave chain and that in future the P.I. Director is ultimately responsible. I think that's a bad idea, because it doesn't fit in with the expertise of many directors. Mrs Van Toorenburg underlined this on the basis of her own experience. Indeed, I should imagine something at such a TBS committee, which does have the expertise for that. Why doesn't the Minister just choose that? Mr. Chairman. It is not only the case that leave is granted far too easily; there is also a gap in supervision. The letter I asked for yesterday shows that the Judicial Institutions Department made arrangements with GGZ Nederland more than four years ago, so that people could come to institutions for forensic care already in detention phase. When discussing these agreements, has there never been any mention of the fact that there will be no parole? Was this agreement made without an analysis of security for society? I just can't imagine it. I believe that the Minister is now taking the decision very quickly to reverse the DJI's agreements. I can imagine that you're doing that for the short term at least, because you want to get control and supervision in order right now. That's really crucial. But panic football is never good. Has the Minister now made an analysis of what is ultimately best to reduce relapses and protect society? How does this relate to the agreements made four years ago? The letter also shows that another three persons were returned to a penitentiary facility and that this was simply wrongly not mentioned earlier. Blessed is the country where it comes out when such a mistake has been made, but how do we know that there are not more people who should actually be taken back, or on which another form of control will still have to be organised? Mr. Chairman. There will always be people on leave to prepare for a return to society. I would like to know from the Minister whether the supervision during unguided leave is sufficient. Is there really a focus on safety for society, or is there a focus on treatment and care? Shouldn't there be some kind of external check on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u114	Perhaps also good for the people who are watching this debate: how does this supervision work during unguided leave? It's unguided, isn't it? That's one of the big problems. That played with Michael Panhuis, but that also plays in the whole chain. Who understands that crazy criminals and dangerous killers get leave at all, but certainly unguided leave? Who gives that to dangerous killers and rapists?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u115	It's a good thing you're asking. Several proposals are circulating, including among tbs staff, looking for ways to have some sort of external control from time to time. For example, someone unexpectedly visits someone at the place where they say they are or that they are called much more often. Of course, some of it's doing the clinic now. It does not mean that this is not happening at all, but my question is correct: is the focus not much more on the treatment and development of someone and is there sufficient attention to the issue of security? That's the request I received from several staff members of those clinics. I do not know whether the external control is sufficient at the moment. That is why I ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u116	Would Mrs Buitenweg not argue with me that for the time being, perhaps forever, but at least for the time being, we should stop getting engaged? If she doesn't want to, is she willing to argue to definitely stop the unaccompanied engagements?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u117	Eventually an unguided leave takes place entirely at the end, when someone slowly works on returning to society. The PVV thinks: we're going to hold everyone for a very long time or preferably forever; if we can't, we're going to do it for as long as possible and we're going to dump them into society eventually. It does not make society safer. Yeah, you've got people in detention for a long time. Then you're gonna work on problems that people have. Ultimately, it is important that they return to society in a good way, in a way that they do not go right back to wrong again. Well, that's how you're gonna reduce the recidivism. That means you should work with people, even when they take steps outside the walls. That requires good guidance. What I get out of the reports is not so much that people have to be locked up for life, but that there has to be much better individual image of what's wrong with someone. That is something that needs to be organised, with control and supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u118	Let's not have the whole discussion today about tbs or no tbs...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u119	I think that's what you wanted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u120	But let's zoom in on what happened here and what happens in that entire system. What Mrs Buitenweg just said is simply not true. Mrs Buitenweg said that the unaccompanied leave takes place at the very end of such a leave system. Yeah, in theory, those steps are right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u121	You're right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u122	The problem is that at Michael Panhuis we have seen that unaccompanied leave takes place directly, without compliance with the legal regulations and without proper supervision by the Public Prosecutor's Office. The current system is right on paper, but in practice it is structuralally wrong, and that is what I am saying to the D66 Group. That is why I am asking you the following question. If you do not want at least for the time being, then we need to have that difficult discussion about TBs and if not now, and in any case until the system that is written down on paper is right, until that system is respected and until the people who have failed have been dismissed and there are new people who do monitor the proper implementation of the system, are calling for the cessation of unaccompanied leave? I would say "please all the engagements," but I would ask you from GroenLinks to at least stop the unaccompanied engagements.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u123	I do find it worrying that I agree with the PVV that people are now going outside the walls on unguided leave without supervision. You can even see that only at a later stage of their period in prison will the probation be activated. At the very beginning there is no such thing, because then they are stuck in another title. That's an undesirable situation. I'll share that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u124	Finally, Mr Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u125	We also saw that, for example, Michael Panhuis had not even been assigned a parole officer in the first half of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u126	Well, I'm sorry about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u127	So on paper, the system checks out, but in practice it doesn't add up. It's structuralally wrong. I hope you will join me in pleading for the cessation of unaccompanied engagement...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u128	You made that clear, Mr. Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u129	... until the system is repaired. Then we will discuss how to build a completely different system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u130	I believe that the PVV should not pretend that they are the only ones who argue in favour of this. In my view, everyone here has just seen that at the moment the situation is that people can go out on the basis of a different title, without probation and without proper supervision, and that is precisely the problem. I think that is the problem that has been identified. I also asked questions about this, because there were also agreements with GGZ Nederland which allowed people to go to that forensic care and thus could already be on leave without the probation being organized. We all ask questions about that. I would like to hear from the Minister when the insight has come that this agreement with GGZ Nederland has contributed to this. Mr. Chairman. I have a lot of questions. Why did P. even go to a forensic psychiatric ward? This is also a place where a lot of people are without criminal records, a place with a low level of security, the intention of which is for people to re-socialize right away and go straight into society. That's the whole purpose of that fpa. Why wasn't a forensic clinic chosen or even heavier? It's not a coincidence, it's something you see more often. These FPAs are increasingly confronted with serious patients with dangerous problems, but they do have the expertise and capacity to do so, I ask the Minister. Is the fact that they can't actually handle it the reason that was just pretending P. was a model patient? The workload in forensic care is high and has risen over the past year. There has been an increasing number of incidents, an increasing number of re-recordings and risks have increased. I quote a report from last year: "The quality of care and safety for patients and employees is under pressure." We can now add that this also applies to the safety of society as a whole. Yes, I agree with the Minister that treatment and detention staff should be more aware of the risks and more insight into the psyche of the prisoner, but I also want him to realize that they must have time to do their job properly. How's he gonna see that? Mr. Chairman. What does he arrange to ensure better cooperation between the institutions? I was really shocked when I read that there hasn't been a warm transfer between the PI Vught and the FPA Roosenburg, while the latter insisted on that a few times, but Vught didn't give at home. Indeed, partly because funding does not regulate that either. Suppliers, as stated in last year's report, indicate that often no more intake calls are made, because the GDPC funding does not compensate them. But I fully agree with Mrs Van Toorenburg that it is also a question of taking responsibility for itself. That brings me to the final point. Does the Minister think that it is now well taken up by the institutions, that there is a good learning capacity? What's he basing himself on? What's he worried about now? In order to prevent new crimes, the whole chain must work well together: justice, forensic care, ggz and also probation. What are the main concerns for this minister in this whole chain? Because only if everything fits properly can we prevent as many horrible crimes as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u131	I just heard Mr Buitenweg say that she agrees with Mrs Van Toorenburg that people should think for themselves. If such risks arise, they have a great responsibility. I agree with that, but I also find it too easy to say that you will not get any funding. I've worked as a civil servant myself. You're gonna get your ass kicked for that. Do you have to do that in your spare time? Do you have to do that outside of the funding? Do you have to bring private money? How does something like that go?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u132	I've received several signals about that in the past week. The report says that the funding will not be reimbursed. I have now understood that there is a formal game somewhere, but also that very few people know that and that little use is made of it. We will hear that from the Minister in due course. I know exactly what you're saying. Of course, as a clinic, you seem like a thief of your own wallet if you're not paid for a transfer while a psychiatrist has to go all the way to Vught to spend a whole day there on that transfer. That costs money that you actually have to spend on other things. I want to change that, too. If that is not settled, I shall therefore table a motion on this matter. But at the same time there is something like common sense. You're taking a delinquent in your department. Then you want to know what you have to do to make sure that that person is treated properly and to ensure that there is safety for other people, for staff and for society. Isn't that a basic thing that's really part of your job?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u133	Was that the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u134	That was certainly the question and I fully agree with Mrs Buitenweg, but I also hear her very often here arguing for more investment in society, in public care. I point out the balance. On the one hand, the question is what we can expect from people so that they take sufficient responsibility for this kind of thing, while on the other hand we take money away from them. Is it then the case that police officers will be forced to arrest criminals at their own expense outside working hours? Isn't there a connection with the amount of money we give to the group? It has been found that this is too little. This leads to unacceptable risks, according to the CDA in 2014. They are also choices that politics has made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u135	This point has also been made clear to you, Mr. Azarkan. Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u136	If it is right, Mr Azarkan has actually heard me tell two stories. I think there is a structural problem in forensic care: yes, a high workload, insufficient money and insufficient expertise. There's not enough investment in that. So that's where holes fell. Mistakes are made easier. At the same time, there remains a personal responsibility. I don't want to just throw everything on galaxies. If, for example, the officials of such a service find at some point that there is no individual analysis of this person at all, they should also call the bell. So these are two stories that intersect and have led to terrible accidents.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u137	Thank you, Mrs Buitenweg. I now give the floor to Mr Drost on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin my contribution with words of sympathy from the Christian Union for the relatives of Anne Faber and others involved. The findings of the reports should be a major shock to you and may open wounds again or further. I wish you every success in that regard. Mr. Chairman. The reports we are discussing today raise a lot of questions and emotions in our country. How did this happen? Why wasn't this guy locked up? Why did he walk out of jail for seven years when he was sentenced to 12 years? How can a convicted sex offender choose to censor his own file? Especially for the people in Den Dolder: are we safe on the street? I therefore hope that the Minister will answer not only the questions raised by the Chamber, but also those raised by society. Mr. Chairman. For many years, the Christian Union has been a supporter of just punishments, of severe punishments, even in cases of sexual violence. However, it is also important to take due account of the return of convicted persons in our society. I therefore consider it important to bear in mind the complex work that employees do in forensic care and the difficult balance they have to make on a daily basis between the importance of treatment and rehabilitation on the one hand and social security on the other hand and the risk of recurrence on the other. Would the Minister also comment on this consideration in his reply and give his assessment of the errors that have been made in this case? Mr. Chairman. In this complex implementation practice, we must also mention what has gone wrong, particularly in this case. I shall go into a number of points in more detail. Michael P., as a perpetrator of a serious sex crime, was able to avoid tbs by refusing to cooperate in research. It's hard to digest. The Minister has launched measures, for example, to clarify the possibilities for judges to give non-observatories and make the observation period more likely. But what is this going to mean in concrete terms? Did the measures lead a judge in a case such as Michael P. to impose TBs in the future? Mr President, a second point. Mistakes were made when the PI Vught transferred to the fpa in Den Dolder. The doctors in Den Dolder were told a rosy story by telephone and did not receive the criminal record of Michael P., which was incomplete due to privacy concerns. It failed to obtain approval for the rehabilitation process foreseen in Den Dolder. Can the Minister answer the question as to why in this case no use has been made of the possibility of making a complete transfer of files a condition for transfer? In how many cases is this claim to privacy made annually? How does the Minister assess the finding of the Justice and Security Inspectorate that a complete intake in the fpa rarely occurs because the funding system does not provide for this? Will this be taken into account in the use of the funds made available last summer? Mr. Chairman. Then there is the granting of freedoms. The OVV conclusion is that the first steps in the freedom of Michael P. were not the result of an informed, joint decision by all parties involved, but of a routine administrative procedure. Can the Minister reflect on this and also discuss the role of the Individual Affairs Division, which decided on behalf of the Minister? I would also like to look at this more broadly. Have these signals just come out? Or were there earlier similar signals about the shortcomings in the system other forensic care, other than TBs? If so, what did the Minister do with it? Are there any other cases where a person committed a serious crime during his or her stay in an FPA? Did you withdraw in time the freedoms of those 24 prisoners you speak of in your letter? Wasn't there a moment before that? Mr. Chairman. The Minister has now announced a large number of measures. The Christian Union considers it very important that these measures do not simply mean more administrative acts and ticks, but that we really see that desired change in implementation practice. How's the Minister gonna take care of that? Finally, Mr President. The fraction of the Christian Union comes to the sad conclusion that the murder of Anne Faber might have been prevented on the basis of these and other described mistakes. The fact that, according to the letter sent to us by the family, the Minister acknowledged the responsibility of the government and also apologized is an important step for us. Would the Minister like to repeat that in the Chamber? And the final question: how can the Minister implement the measures announced in a credible and appropriate way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u139	Thank you, Mr. Drost. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen on behalf of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u140	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, on behalf of the Animal Party, I would also like to express my deepest sympathy to all the relatives of Anne and Joost who are present here. I wish them every success, because this is not an easy debate for them. Mr. Chairman. That horrible murder of Anne Faber. It was raining hard that night, awfully hard. That's why I went to walk my dogs later that night. My regular round was through Huis ter Heide, through the woods, the woods where a sex offender was looking for a prey. Then you go through it: I could have been Anne; everyone could have been Anne. That is why it is so difficult, but also very much necessary, to have a political debate on who is responsible for this and on what lessons should and can be drawn from it. Mr. Chairman. A sex offender like Michael P. should never, but never have, come into Den Dolder and therefore into society. The lesson is that society needs to be better protected. But how do you do this without violating the fundamental principles of the rule of law? Punishment in the Netherlands must be rigorous and just. The judges are responsible for the justification. Punishments must provide for a policy of re-socialisation, combining severe sanctions with measures that may offer the prospect of a return to society, without falling back on old mistakes or making new, serious mistakes. We, as politicians, have to give judges the tools to make the right decisions and decisions. The OVV report comes with harsh conclusions about the forensic care around Michael P. Basic errors have been detected in the system. The researchers make many recommendations. The Minister states in his letter that the recommendations contained in the OVV report should be taken on board one-on-one. Yesterday I read an analysis by Wineke Smid about this. She is a lead researcher at Van der Hoeven in Utrecht, where people are treated with tbs and lighter measures. It states that the clinic in Den Dolder is intended to treat perpetrators with lower levels of risk, who benefit from good and flexible resocialisation. Her analysis is that according to the report, forensic care for lower levels of risk should be as similar as TBs as possible, in case someone of the calibre of P. enters it. Does the Minister want to reflect on this? Blacksmith makes the following comparison: "It's like a terrible accident happened with a tank on a bike path and the recommendation is: make all bike paths safe for tanks." She then says: "It is better to ensure that no tanks come on the bike path." Can the Minister confirm this? My question to the Minister is: will he not turn all forensic care institutions into TBs for lower risk levels? What measures can be taken to ensure that perpetrators with a high level of risk receive the treatment that is necessary and that good risk analyses are carried out to prevent them from being treated in institutions which are apparently totally unsuitable? That is, after all, the main question, and I ask it once again: how will the Minister avoid horrible mistakes in the future, taking the measures necessary for perpetrators such as P., without making the whole forensic care hermetically closed, which does not benefit the treatment of much lighter cases and their return to society? Then I have a few other questions. Since 1 January 2018, serious crimes of violence and sexuality have been subject to the independent supervision measure of the Act of Long-Term Supervision, the Minister writes in his letter of inquiry. Can the Minister indicate whether this measure has already been applied in practice? In addition, the Minister states that I quote: 'the entire population of detainees who have been convicted of a serious violent or sexual crime has been vetted as a precaution'. Has the Minister considered, in view of the many mistakes that have been made and the lessons to be drawn from them, whether there are ex-convicts who have not been given a full risk analysis and are currently a threat to society? I am referring to perpetrators who are no longer in an institution and who are now free to move around. Mr. Chairman. None of the answers the minister is going to give will be able to alleviate the pain or pain of Anne's parents and Joost's parents and of all the next of kin after their loss. The answers can hopefully help to avoid this in the future. Because anyone could have been Anne or Joost. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u141	Thank you, Mrs Van Kooten. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Hiddema on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u142	Mr. Chairman. A political debate on a human tragedy. Well, then you know what's gonna happen to you. Then there is a discourse about money bags and system changes. Whatever's avenging here has nothing to do with money. The system doesn't matter either. It's the human shortage that's going on here. Call it ease. At the moment, September 29, 2017, that Anne Faber ends up in the claws of her executioner, it has already been reported that it has a nature. What we know now, senseless care jargon. A bin spilled over him. The system is working at full speed. The reporter's gonna take action. What's been reported? There is a treatment plan of the PBC Vught because of its structure and its suffering; yes, what they call it I don't even remember. There's a report from psycho-medical PI Vught; a bunch of blind men, we know now. There's a report from the gz psychologist. There's an indicative report from the NIFP. There's a report on basic research. Then he arrives in Den Dolder. There's a treatment plan from Den Dolder. All the way to the end, there's a risk assessment report. Then he's been in Den Dolder for four months and it's already taken care of. Well, reporting it didn't work out. In all these reports, nothing about what's going on here and what's going on in Pudel's Kern: Michael P's sexual disorder. It's a collection of hollow texts, born from the stencil machine, pumped around by soulless officials, without anyone having any image and any involvement with his victims and what to do with this guy. They're about Michael P, but they don't look at the beast in him. "The case," you always read in the reports of the OVV. "The Case." A lot of formalistic rams about how the system works, and the case is Michael P. How did that work out for him? There is only one real case, and no one has gotten to it: not here, not in the reports of the OVV, not in Vught and not in Den Dolder. And that has nothing to do with money, because that case of the defendant P. is available on the Internet for free. Then he can't come up with his privacy either. It's available to everyone, including those who treat it. ECLI:2011:BQ8628. Read and shudder. What is the basis of his recording? A rape of two girls in both their presence: vaginal, oral, anal. There's gonna be a witness showing up saying he heard a girl screaming like hell about the pain. With a gun, he hit the girls on the head. One of the girls, both girls are underage, he devirginized, and violently ripped the tampon out of her vagina. He forced them to satisfy each other sexually...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u143	Mr Hiddema, I have to interrupt you for a moment, because I think Mr Van Wijngaarden has a comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u144	I do have a comment. I would like to point out to Mr Hiddema that we are not here in court, but in Parliament. There are relatives present. I think it is appropriate to take that into account in the way we express ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u145	That's it. But this explanation from my side on the real case is very functional.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u146	Mr Hiddema may think so, but I would ask him to be respectful here too to the next of kin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u147	Right. If everything went wrong, you're not talking about the case itself, you're talking about the tone of the debate. Then you've come to the wrong place with me. As long as the chairman doesn't intervene, I'm gonna talk him out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u148	Well, I'm about to say something. Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u149	I would like to join the previous speaker wholeheartedly, because I really do not think this is possible. It's painful and sad enough for the next of kin, without mentioning all those horrible details. I would like to ask the Forum for Democracy and Mr Hiddema to conduct this debate with style and not to stir up all these horrible details.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u150	Well, the court is literally in agreement with you, because at ECLI you can find that whole verdict, with all the considerations I'm saying right now. And then the court considers: it's horrible, inhuman and brutal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u151	Mr. Hiddema, I'd like to say a few words. It is true what you say, and I have also checked: it is accessible on the Internet and so on. But, also out of respect for the victims and for the parents, I don't know if everyone appreciates being confronted with all these horrible details. That is why I think it would be a good idea not to mention those details for a moment, and that you should just keep your speech going.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u152	Well, the beast in the man has really messed with those parents. And what I'm trying to tell you and everyone else right now is that no one has looked that beast in the eye. That's what happened out of ease. They could have easily seen what kind of meat they had in the cockpit, if they had read that sentence in its entirety and not an extract sentence. They didn't know anything about it! When the gentleman arrives in Den Dolder, there is one awake soul who thinks: "Hey, that man has been severely punished. What would he have done?" He sends an e-mail to Vught and then he hears: "Model patient, so don't worry about it." That's how it happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u153	You have made your point clear, so I think you can continue your speech without mentioning the details. I do not want to go back to what we have just discussed, Mrs Van Toorenburg. Do you have a new point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u154	Yes. Because if you know the atrocities, it's always so remarkable that people don't get TBs, they just get jail time. So it should have been taken into account by now. That is also because in the legal profession people are often helped not to participate in that analysis of what is going on. Now we know that Mr. Hiddema is a lawyer to this day. Can he give his point of view on that? What could we do to prevent, even in the legal profession, from actually contributing to the system that people ultimately do not contribute to a TB? I ask this question in general terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u155	That is in a very general sense and I cannot answer that. That's different for every lawyer in front of every client. It's up to him. The only thing I can say is that you can easily bypass that bump, to name it, of the reluctant observers by having expert judges look at the case and by giving the officers further training. I'll ask the Minister the same way. 'Cause what's going on here? I mentioned those atrocities because you clearly notice that a total psychopath is at work here. He's a pervert. He wants not only to satisfy his sexual lust, but also to be humiliated. He does that by forcing those girls to satisfy each other. It's disgusting. A bit of a judge gets it: that guy's a psychopath and not a freak, if I may call it "cross-section-delinquent"; that guy's gotta be in the tbs. Then a lawyer can refuse, honk and do whatever he wants, but the judge just... Once again, there is the debate: those refusing observers are something. They're nothing! If a judge stumbles upon a refusing observer, who doesn't cooperate and doesn't want to go to the Pieter Baan Centre, where he has to go anyway, they drag him there and he has to stay there for seven weeks. The judge doesn't have any... Yeah, multi-expert in the reports. Then he'll have to talk to himself. The law allows that. Then he himself has to think normatively, simply put: is this normal? In this case, he would have been able to say that Anne was very unhappy with these judges that this man had to go to the TBs. You could have done that!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u156	Mrs. Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u157	Without any reporting, the judge can impose a TBs on someone. It's possible. In this case, it's splashing that it should have. There have been officers, these officers, who said, "Oh, I didn't demand tbs, for I didn't know that was possible." Let the Minister, I think, go to the state's attorney's office and make an inventory to see who else didn't know that in a case like this could.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u158	Mrs. Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u159	Fortunately, the measures mentioned by Mr Hiddema have all been taken in the last period. Those are indeed the judges' analyses, those are the investments in them, that is a WODC report that has indeed shown that judges do not know what to do, it has been touched that the Pieter Baan Centre can do better; now it is no longer seven weeks, but much longer. So that's all done. But I am not asking my question to Mr Hiddema as a lawyer, who has also assisted very heavy people. I would like to know from him what we can do to ensure that lawyers do not systematically say to their clients: do not participate in that observation to avoid a TB. This is because this target group sometimes plays a very critical role.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u160	You don't know anything about that. You don't know the entire files of the individual cases. I refuse to comment on whether colleagues are wise enough to give a certain opinion. Besides, you also have clients who don't need a lawyer at all. They don't want to go to the Pieter Baan Center anyway. They'll go, but they won't cooperate. So it's all too easy to... I'm certainly not going to appeal to my profession with a moral touch. No, we have judges to correct this. Those new measures you mention are all nice and nice, but they could have been done at the time. It could have been very easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u161	Mr Hiddema pointed out the actions of Michael Panhuis in 2010. Mr Hiddema's solution would then be tbs. I've referred to that before in the Chamber as a system of engagement. Also in today's debate, in an interruption to Mrs Buitenweg, I pointed out that these engagements are being granted far too quickly. In the world of Mr.Hiddema Michael Panhuis was thus very quickly unleashed on society. In this Chamber, I had a little debate with Mr Hiddema on the introduction of much higher penalties and on the failure of the Public Prosecutor's Office and this Chamber, including the Forum for Democracy, to introduce higher penalties. Can Mr Hiddema promise me today that he will be on my side to provide for higher penalties in the Netherlands, so that people like Michael Panhuis will be punished much higher in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u162	It does not do justice to the dignity of this case to take away a publicist party advantage. I'm not going along with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u163	That is certainly not my intention at all, and you know it very well. Why don't you just give me a normal answer to my question instead of a rhetorical skill?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u164	Then Mr Markuszower should not come up with such a proposal in general. Then he's gonna have to approach me with a specific article of law where his insights make the maximum penalty too low. But that is completely outside this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u165	I have come up with a specific article, namely my own initiative law, and I would ask you to support it. That initiative law ensures that these types of rapists and murderers are sentenced to life imprisonment for decades, 80, 60 years. You were against that before. That certainly has to do with this case, because once again, if Michael Panhuis had been given 60 years or life in 2010 and not, as you are now advocating, tbs, a system of engagement, then society would have been safe. Can the Forum for Democracy now clearly say that they want higher penalties in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u166	That's a good way to do it. Then I would have to make an inventory of what penalties are paid too low in the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u167	Finally, Mr Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u168	Then let's zoom in on this case. Michael Panhuis only got eleven years in 2010, so he was already outside after seven years. Does Mr. Hiddema consider that a normal punishment for such a serious rapist?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u169	Well, no, I can't say that's normal. And I don't think that's gonna be normal for all judges either. At first instance he had 16 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u170	Mr. Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u171	And in the end, he only got 11 years. This means in the Netherlands, also for the system that Mr.Hiddema advocates for all his clients, that after six, seven years he could walk freely on the streets. Can Mr. Hiddema just say that those are far too low penalties for such terrible crimes? Or does he keep spinning around to keep protecting his future clients?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u172	Oh, boy. Would you like to suggest that I contribute to the fact that a certain category of clients is being penalised too low in your judgment? There is no discussion about that, because one client is not the other, one suspect is not the other and this Michael P. has, remember, been given sixteen years. Well, that was a nice punishment, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u173	No, he didn't get 16 years. In the end, he only got eleven years, and that means that he was already free after six, seven years. And I'm not just suggesting, I share the opinion of many Dutch people who have had enough that criminal attorneys do everything to hide the truth in a courtroom and exonerate horrible offenders, murderers and rapists. They go beyond what the law deems necessary. So natúúrlijk needs every suspect good defense, but there are too many criminal attorneys who lie and cheat in court, who hide the truth, who don't tell the truth in court. I have spoken against this before and I think that many Dutch people with me are sick of all those criminal attorneys who do everything...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u174	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u175	...to send the most horrible killers and rapists back into society as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u176	Would you like to respond briefly to that? You don't have to. Then I'm going to see Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u177	No, I don't think it's appropriate to respond. I don't know what to say. Mr Markuszower is always trying to frame me for contributing to the penal climate in the Netherlands. I am here to comment on Michael P.'s trial; that is what it is all about and that is where it has gone completely wrong. Can I move on now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u178	Well, Mr Van Nispen also has a question. Mr. van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u179	Mr. Chairman. I thought it was a worthy debate so far. My opinion is that things have not improved in the last few minutes, so I would like to return to the substance with Mr Hiddema. By the way, he wasn't the first to point out today that there's just a verdict. Even without quoting that, the question can be raised, even if the question has already been raised, that there is simply a judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u180	We've had it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u181	So in that sense, it's not easy to understand that the past of morals has gotten into the background. Mr. Chairman. I don't really know why I shouldn't have noticed that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u182	Because we've closed the net; then I'm afraid we'll have to come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u183	No, Mr President, because I am just saying that Mr Hiddema was not the first to ask that question. So in that sense, it was a fair question. My question is this. Mr Hiddema is quite sure that this has nothing to do with the system, that it has nothing to do with money, and that it is all about convenience, but how can he be so sure? Then why are there thick reports that show anything else? If it's just complacency, it seems to me like there's an accusing finger pointing at staff in clinics. The question is whether that is right. If you look at other reports, which say that there are piles of files waiting, that people are suffering from staff shortages and that experienced employees have left in recent years, shouldn't we also look at the system? Perhaps, in Mr Hiddeman's words, there is talk of ease and people should have looked through, but then you should also allow people to do so. What does Mr Hiddema think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u184	In my view, the human deficit plays a decisive role in this matter. Whether it is in other cases, I don't know. Maybe that's where the system plays, but this is the director of the PI Vught. He was obliged to inform the D.A. of the freedoms he has given. He had to, because the D.A. had placed an execution indicator. Which means the D.A. would like to know what happens to this gentleman, because he knows what's in the verdict. He read that. He'll know. And what did Vught's director do? He didn't call the D.A. That has nothing to do with a system and nothing to do with money. The D.A. didn't know anything about it. That's the head of the p.i. It decides on the granting of freedoms. He should have done that after the D.A.'s advice, but he didn't inform the D.A. He should have.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u185	According to Mrs Van Toorenburg, that is not true. She can correct that herself, but I do not think anyone here denies that a lot of mistakes have been made. That is why we are having this debate, and that is why we have been asked all kinds of questions. In my view, it is too easy to limit this to this issue and then say: it went wrong, and that is the only problem. We know what problems there are with the shortage of staff in prisons and the shortage of staff in the clinics. This in no way contributes to people having time to read the verdicts, to understand the files, to know the people and to assess the risks well. Does Mr Hiddema recognise this and is he prepared to deal with us in terms of staff shortages in prisons and clinics?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u186	If, where appropriate, it appears to me that the system or lack of money is the cause, then I would like to help Mr Van Nispen, but the thick reports he is referring to point out precisely that the director of the p.i. In Vught we failed, and that has nothing to do with money. He's just not doing his job. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u187	Mr. Chairman. I firmly believe that we are sticking to the facts. On page 27 of the inspection report, it just literally states that the prosecution had to be involved. This was done on 6 January 2017. The attorney general's been called. He received a message requesting advice on the placement. That's done. It has read a whole statement of reasons and has finally given its consent. I think it's important to mark that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u188	Mr. Chairman. That's the placement, but what's important here is that the gentleman got leave and walked the streets. The director should have informed the officer of that, and he did not, Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u189	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u190	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That's one mistake the warden made in Vught. Then he doesn't investigate Mr. P's history of vice. That's odd, because it's gonna splash out anyway. He read, I think, an extract judgment, and then he thinks, "I'm gonna have a guest here at 11 years." But how does the management realize that there is something more going on in terms of morality; the moral level of the person who comes to him? Then the report of the Justice and Security Inspectorate on page 37 says: "Shortly after placement in PI Vught, it becomes known to the other inmates that P. committed a sex crime." They'll know. They'll find out. Moreover, there is also a witness to judge the atrocity against whom he has said that the crime of sex was a highlight in his life; and in between. And what is the response of the staff? Well, then he's gonna have to get out of there, 'cause if the fellow inmates start getting tricky, you're gonna send him to a ward. And where does he end up? In a structural department, also because he doesn't want to tell much about his sex crimes. Nota bene, they're up for picking up. This was done under the direction of that director. Leave without a grant of the D.A.'s office and placement in a structural department, because he has problems with aggression and addiction. The sex offender is completely underexposed, but his fellow inmates know what the flag is like. The warden's in the wrong place. Then the director goes on for a while, because then Mr. Den Dolder ends up in Den Dolder. There's a awake spirit there, thinking, "What's going on here?" Eleven years, 16 years first? That's a hell of a punishment. He's calling the p.i. in Vught. What does he get to hear there, under the director's direction, of course? He's adjusting nicely, you know, you're getting a model patient. Well, what else do you want? A model prisoner. The PC does not provide the risk factors. They don't mention the violent incidents in Vught, nor a bizarre sexual incident, you have to assume. It doesn't make any sense to you, because it doesn't come out. But it was obsessive sexual behavior. The PC also doesn't report that part of the crime analysis isn't being transferred to Den Dolder, because P. doesn't want to. That's his privacy. Well, that wouldn't have solved anything either, because the crime analysis, when it's complete, doesn't take everything that's going on with him in terms of morality and what he's done with those two girls. No one knows anything about that. That's the easy part. That's complacency. If you're a devoted handler, who thinks "who would this guy be?" You're gonna see what he's been up to, aren't you? But here everything gets ticked off and it gets cut off administratively. Now it's time for something to happen. Here's what I want to ask the Minister. We do not want to put the question of trust, because we are very content with this minister now. Finally, a liberal minister who is not raised on the shield by spindoctors and presented as a crime fighter, but a minister who has been horrified that such a thing can happen under his control. That must never happen again: never again under my control. Well, you should have a minister like that. But he's gotta do something.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u191	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u192	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u193	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u194	There must be a demonstration of the measures he is about to announce. He must be the director of the p.i. Fired in Vught. He must also address the executives in Den Dolder strongly and also call the management to account and dismiss the responsible director. That's the only thing that's gonna help show the lower rank: damn it, if we do something wrong, the warden might get really nervous. Here it's an endless bunch of ticks brushing away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u195	Actually, I was just about to finish. Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u196	What an anointing words of Mr. Hiddema so at the end. Unprecedented also for the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u197	I saw you coming. I'm gonna be so lenient.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u198	The pleasure is all mine, Mr. Hiddema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u199	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u200	I wonder if Mr Hiddema's passion for this minister has clouded his assessment, because there is something serious going on. I cannot imagine Forum saying: the Minister has indicated that he is going to take action and that he is going to take action, and then we are very happy. That is so against the normal line of Forum.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u201	Well, no, now we have a minister who feels the hot breath in his neck of: once again such an incident of this caliber, then I am really screwed. He has not contributed to this incident in any way, not even in terms of responsibility. I know that ministerial responsibility can go a little further in time, but this minister has actually, under his management, made no contribution whatsoever to or should be responsible for something that has gone completely wrong here. But it has gone completely wrong and the one who knows this very well is this minister. He's very concerned about that. Count on him to do a good digging at those facilities, more than his predecessors, I think, if they act neatly according to the regulations, and that such a thing as with Anne will never happen again. You should cherish a minister like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u202	It is so in stark contrast to the screaming of the Forum for Democracy about the fact that three other ministers have to resign in advance before they do business in the First Chamber. How do you suddenly come to these new insights?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u203	Why do you, and not just you, include all the issues that can be raised, but which have nothing to do with this particular case? That makes it a little difficult for me. Three ministers are gone: oh, I'm sure, yes, but that's not before now, so I can't give you any further clarification on that either. Do you think it's chronic or that there's been a wonderful virus in our party members, that once we see a minister, we have to get rid of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u204	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u205	Yeah, sometimes I think so, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u206	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u207	Well, I assure you, it is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u208	Thank you, Mr. Hiddema. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u209	I'm suspending the meeting for lunch. After that, we will begin work on the arrangements, and we will continue this debate at 2 p.m. Then the Minister will answer the questions asked by the Members of Parliament in the first term.
