ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u1	The next item is the 30-member debate on the import of contaminated meat from Brazil. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Medical Care, as well as the MPs and the viewers at home. Five speakers have signed up. Mrs. Ouwehand has a question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I have a point of order. We have requested a debate with the Minister of LNV and the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. Neither are there. We knew about the Foreign Trade Minister before. We have accepted that the Minister of Medical Care would be present. He has also sent letters on this subject. The Minister of LNV signed off two hours before this debate. I don't think that's possible. So my proposal is to postpone this debate and re-plan within three weeks, with the Minister of LNV present.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u3	Let me see if there is a majority in favour of this request, indicating that the cabinet itself decides the delegation. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Lodders of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u4	Mr President, I would like to begin by saying that the cabinet is obviously discussing its own delegation to a debate. I understand Mrs Ouwehand's request. At the same time, I think: we are here now and this minister has come. So I prefer to just have the debate. I am confident that this Minister will be able to answer questions on all the dossiers, from foreign trade to agriculture and also a piece of medical care. But it is not at all fancy; I would like to point that in the direction of Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u5	Mr President, I would like to support Mrs Ouwehand's proposal. It will be a completely different debate, with all due respect to Minister Bruins. We would then have a debate because of the agenda and not because of the subject. That's not how it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u6	I would also like to support the request. If it does not get a majority, I expect the cabinet to be able to answer the questions from the Chamber. The cabinet is about its own delegation, but it is up to it to consider whether it is capable of being for the sake of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u7	Mr President, I am not going to repeat everything. Mrs Lodders has subtitled the fact that I am not going to support Mrs Ouwehand's request.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u8	Thank you. We can conclude that there is no majority in favour of your proposal, Mrs Ouwehand. That means we're starting the debate. I imagine it's annoying if you've prepared yourself in a certain way, but it's no different now. The Minister will answer the questions as best he can. Mrs Ouwehand has the floor for her contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u9	Thank you, Mr President. There is much to do about Dutch agriculture and how we can achieve it sustainably, with a good income model for farmers. There is also much to be done about that because the Dutch market is flooded with products produced in countries where the rules are just a little less strict, for example in the field of agricultural poison use, animal welfare and food safety. Let Brazil be such a country. We have, not for the first time, to conclude that contaminated meat from Brazil is simply for sale on the Dutch market. President Bolsonaro also said that we can simply cut the rainforest for the production of cheap meat. And in Brazil 120 chemicals that are not allowed in Europe may be re-used. The cabinet is on the verge of supporting the European Commission in concluding a trade deal with Brazil, so that products produced under much lower standards than those produced in Europe by imports flood our market. Everyone is angry about the Ukraine deal, which allows cheap chicken meat from Ukraine to be sold in the Netherlands. Ukraine is small beer compared to the Mercosur deal that is now on the move. I actually wanted to ask the Minister for Agriculture, who is strangely not there because she left two hours before this debate, how does that relate to her circular vision? It does express its concern about the Mercosur deal. Is she prepared to turn these concerns into a firm cabinet position and say: we are simply not going to do that, because we are not going to cooperate with lucrative, shady trade from Brazil which allows these things to be sold in the Netherlands? So what exactly does the Minister of Agriculture mean by her concerns about the Mercosur deal? Has the Minister of Agriculture seen that European farmers' organisations are strongly opposed, for example because of the high risk that contaminated products from Brazil can simply be sold in the Netherlands? What does the Minister for Agriculture mean when she says that pesticides that are not allowed in Europe, but in third countries, can enter the market if they are safe according to the MRL? Then we'll increase the import tolerance. Is that what she's saying that's actually happening? Does that mean that if we close the Mercosur deal, products that are exposed to substances banned in the European Union but which are allowed to be used in agriculture in Brazil can be sold in the Netherlands? Mr. Chairman. It could be that the European Commission will close this deal with Brazil, among other things, next summer. We call on the Cabinet to oppose this in good time. Otherwise, the concerns expressed by the Minister for Agriculture are simply not based on anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u10	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. Then I give the floor to Mrs Lodders of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u11	Thank you, Mr President. When you shop at the supermarket, you have to be able to assume that your food is safe. This also applies if you eat in a restaurant or at the snack bar on the corner. In the case of reports of large-scale fraud and export or import of contaminated meat, all alarm bells must ring, because that is unacceptable. We set high standards for food production and food safety in the Netherlands. Imported meat must also comply with this requirement. If it turns out that this is not the case, there is a need for tough action. That is what we do in the Netherlands, and it must be done if our food comes from another country. Following reports of large-scale fraud in Brazil, the European Supervisory Authority has taken more stringent measures. The NVWA carried it out in the Netherlands. As far as I can tell, that happened in an appropriate way. I'd like to hear a confirmation from the Minister that that's true. At the same time, I do have a question for the Minister. In 2017, it was found that large-scale fraud involving contaminated meat took place. This has been monitored more closely. 20% of the meat has been microbiologically tested. I would like to know from the Minister whether, during the period 2017-2018, the contaminated meat was found in those 20% increased controls in the Netherlands or in other Member States. Why didn't this case come up early in 2018? I hope the Minister can reflect on that. Fraud involving certificates is, of course, unacceptable and scandalous, especially if it continues for a year. I don't think it stopped and it came to light again in 2018. I'd like a reflection on that from the Minister. I also have a question about the import ban and the way things are going. When I read the letters, the Netherlands actually argued for a European import ban rather quickly. The European Commission has only said at a later stage: we are going to restrict it. At first they were lighter, later they were heavier. But the Commission has not gone as far as China and the United States. Have the agreements been properly secured in Europe? If this is to happen, we, as Europe, must also be able to take firm, firm measures. Mr. Chairman. I have asked written questions about the impact of Brazilian agricultural policy on the Netherlands. That is a part of which I would have liked to ask the Minister for Agriculture. Those answers came today and do not reassure me at all. In order not to send this minister out with a whole cartload of questions, I say that I will involve these questions in the next consultation on the LNV Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u12	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mrs Ouwehand. In this debate, I would like to meet up with you on a maximum of two interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u13	The debate is about something in this way! I should like to know from the VVD Group what she is basing the assumption that the checks on Brazilian meat are now going well. I have read the audit from 2018, but as in the audits from 2017, 2016, 2015 and 2014 the conclusion was: in theory this could be monitored, but in practice it will not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u14	Then maybe I haven't been entirely clear. I have not made that observation. I said that it was found that in 2017, when this large-scale fraud involving contaminated meat came to light, there was an adequate response. At that point, the alarm bells started ringing, and it has to be. In addition, the NVWA, like a number of other authorities in the Member States, carried out checks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u15	So Mrs Lodder says: on the European side, things have gone well, because there have been alarm bells ringing and the NVWA has simply rejected and destroyed parties. But then the question remains: is Brazil okay? Those audits, which would be carried out there once a year in slaughterhouses, have been announced. The conclusion is that this system could work on paper, but there is no guarantee. There are no veterinarians in those slaughterhouses and it cannot be guaranteed that poultry meat, for example, complies with European legislation. If we know that, why do we still allow that import? And why does the cabinet continue with the support of the VVD with this Mercosur deal, which allows all these products to enter the Dutch market to an even greater extent?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u16	Two responses to that. It is only the first time, and I have put questions to the Minister. In particular, I asked: what happened in the period 2017-2018? In 2017, it was detected and again in 2018, a year later. In my opinion, checks must have been carried out at that time. Those 20% microbiological controls have once been found to be exceeding salmonella and that other enzyme E. coli, I believe, but what happened to that? That is one answer, and I would like to hear it from the Minister. If you notice that after such a large-scale fraud in 2017, I think you need to raise your finger even faster. So that's one. The second point is that Mrs Ouwehand is referring a little bit to it. That is what she has done before. The VVD is not in favour of this, because it is a two-way street. We are in favour of trade, but it must be done fairly. Let me quote the cheap meat from the Ukraine. I don't think cheap is the argument that gives you the VVD's support. That is, in particular, about the fact that Ukraine still does not fulfil the conditions that we impose on the steps that Ukraine must take throughout the production process, let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u17	Thank you. There is one more question from Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u18	Mr President, I would like to conclude by assuming that there are two interruptions in three. If the argument with Ukraine were that they had to comply with European legislation, does Mrs Lodders say that Brazil does? Does Brazil have the same rules as the Netherlands and Europe, including the corresponding intensity of supervision?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u19	In the trade agreement with Ukraine, we made agreements with each other. We consider this trade to be important, and we want to help Ukraine in this respect. That's just a brief summary. Furthermore, we agreed that Ukraine would comply with animal welfare aspects during that period. That will have to bring Ukraine to a European level. When it comes to Brazil, I say that Brazil does not comply. I am therefore not satisfied with the answers I have had, just because of the admission of... I do not even want to call it plant protection products, because they are substances that have been banned here for 20 years. They're still allowed in there. Then you can say that we may be able to tighten up the residue on products, but then I say: no, if our farmers are not allowed to use it, then I really want to be very strict with other countries, especially countries where checks are not always carried out properly. So I think we're on the same page. I am also keen on this, and I do not need the encouragement of the Party for Animals, because we are taking the steps ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u20	Thank you. Indeed, there are three-way interruptions for everyone. Mrs Van Weerdenburg of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just had to double check to see if I had walked in on the good debate. The subject tonight is the import of contaminated meat from Brazil, which is a foreign trade issue. However, I see here the Minister for Medical Care in trade union K. I do understand that the cabinet is about its own delegation, but it would have ordained the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation if she had been present at this debate. But apparently she would rather go to the Bilderberg Conference in Switzerland than talk to the Chamber about how we can guarantee the food safety and health of our Dutch citizens when it comes to imported meat from Brazil. This is exemplary for the priorities of a D66 minister, and the PVV finds that very regrettable. Mr. Chairman. The Brazilian meat scandal and the way it has been handled raises many questions. While China and the United States immediately closed their borders for meat from Brazil, the European Union came up with half-baked measures, such as additional import controls by controlling 80% of the scandal meat only on sight. My question to the Minister is: how does that actually work? Can you detect bacteria like salmonella or E. coli on meat with pure vision checks? The safety of meat is primarily the responsibility of the production and export companies themselves and of national supervision in the country concerned. In Brazil, that went terribly wrong. Large-scale corruption has put the health of consumers, the Dutch citizen, at risk. As far as PVV is concerned, that must never happen again. The health of Dutch citizens should always be paramount. Our food safety must be guaranteed under all circumstances. I therefore ask the Minister: can you, with the current additional import controls, exclude that imported spoiled or contaminated meat ends up in our food chain? If not, why didn't the Minister intervene more strongly? Why not ban all imports of Brazilian meat? How is it that such serious fraud has gone unnoticed in EU audits for so long? Mr. Chairman. So it's waiting for the next scandal. Countries such as Brazil and other Latin American countries are more affected by large-scale corruption. Why don't we just stop importing from those countries until they get things in order? This is because the EU clearly has different interests to the health of our citizens and food safety. The EU's half-hearted action is linked to the current negotiations on a new trade agreement between the EU and a number of South American countries, including Brazil, the so-called Mercosur countries. This seems to be a trade-off between our food safety and commercial interests, and in particular the commercial interests of the car industry. It is too bizarre for words: because Germany is so keen to sell cars in South America, we in the Netherlands need to import more scandal meat from Brazil, among others. The exchange will only increase with the final conclusion of this trade agreement. The health of our Dutch citizens and the guarantee of food safety should always, but always, go for commercial interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u22	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Geurts of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u23	Mr. Chairman. The CDA repeatedly argued that food safety and tackling food fraud should be the top priority. This is of the utmost importance in our own country and also for imports from countries such as Brazil. In the European Parliament, my colleague Annie Schreijer has also asked for action against the large-scale fraud in Brazil and the import of these companies. If I understand correctly, these companies are still not allowed to export to the European Union, so I ask the Minister through you, Mr President. If this is also properly observed and maintained, so that this meat does not enter the European Union by other means, I wonder. That's the question I'm going to ask the Minister. Mr. Chairman. In this case it was Brazil but there is also fraud in other countries, which may have a major impact on our food safety. Can the Minister explain how action is taken if irregularities are detected in import controls? If there is an increase in food from a particular country that does not meet our food safety requirements, will the problem be escalated? Are measures taken, not only with regard to the importer concerned, but also with regard to the country concerned? Mr. Chairman. In 2013, our colleague Esther de Lange presented a comprehensive report in the European Parliament containing recommendations on food fraud, following the horse meat scandal. Now, about six years later, I do not have the impression that all the good recommendations in that report have been followed. Some things, such as self-regulation, have been taken up by the Food Confidence Task Force in the Netherlands, but I believe that more is needed in the European Union and in the Netherlands. In this debate I would like to raise three practical issues which I do not think are sufficiently secured. First of all, I wonder whether we have created the right conditions in the European Union and in the Netherlands for whistleblowers from business and public authorities to report to insecure practices. What exists in the Netherlands and in the European Union, particularly in cases of food fraud? How can this be better? Both questions I ask the Minister. Secondly, it would be a good idea for parties in the chain to report fraud in products delivered to them. Because of this, it would come to light much faster if something went wrong. Is the Minister prepared to consider in the Netherlands and in the European Union how to introduce an obligation on food operators to report incidents of this kind, in so far as it has not yet been introduced? Thirdly, the 2013 report recommends that European food and veterinary officials and national authorities carry out checks on the overall balance of outgoing and incoming flows. If that happens at the moment, I ask the Minister through you, Mr President. Is the Minister prepared to examine how this can be made possible or better made possible? Locking up. I hope that the Minister will take these suggestions to heart, because I am convinced that we all want the fight against food fraud to be continually improved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u24	Thank you. There is another interruption by Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u25	What I hear now from the CDA is a bit like what I read in the audits that Europe has carried out in Brazilian slaughterhouses. Each year it is announced that there are many possible improvements, but they are never implemented. So my first question is whether Mr Geurts acknowledges that at least the level of enforcement in slaughterhouses is lower than that in the Netherlands, where we already have a little trouble getting that right. Then there's my second question. European farmers are begging politicians not to move forward with this Mercosur deal, which would mean a huge import of cheap meat from Brazil. Why doesn't the CDA support these farmers? They're asking us to say stop it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u26	I hear two questions in this interruption. The first is whether, for example, Brazil is controlled in the same way as in Europe or the Netherlands. I have the impression that in the Netherlands and in other European countries too, there is a great deal of control. We see in the various reports from the European Union that it is sometimes a little less in other countries. But I think the European Union is on top of that. At least that is evident from the pieces I have taken. But on the question of whether the level is equivalent to that in the European Union, I think the answer should be no. I have also put this question to the Minister, in a different way. The second point raised by Mrs Ouwehand is that farmers think that we should import less into Europe. Look, if you have mutual trade, there's reciprocity in that. We in the CDA are in favour of foreign trade, but we also think it is important that when we demand food here in the Netherlands or Europe, the food from the countries with which we do business, complies with the rules that we have set here in the Netherlands. We do not disagree on that point. But I doubt that there are really a lot of farmers who say that we should not be trading abroad. The Netherlands is an exporting country. We also process food in the Netherlands, but mainly export the food, grown up, grown up here and so on. So it is very important for the Netherlands that we have reciprocity in it, so that we continue to do business with other countries as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u27	I did not count how many farmers are members of Copa, the association of European farmers, nor how many are members of Cogeca, the European agri-cooperatives. Looks like a lot of them. LTO's even a member of one of those clubs. That would mean that all farmers who are members of LTO in the Netherlands would ask us, politicians, policy makers: please don't do it to us, that deal with Brazil. Mr Geurts acknowledged that standards were lower there. He does believe that the standards should have been levelled, but that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u28	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u29	Again the question: why is the CDA going on with this deal with Brazil, while the farmers are asking for it not to be done and the CDA itself recognises that the standards are lower there and that production can therefore be cheaper?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u30	So many assumptions are now being thrown to me in one interruption that I should dissect all those sentences. Let me put it this way. Farmers are convinced in my view that foreign trade is necessary, so you raped, say, the claims from Copa. You're taking it out of context. I'm sure of it. Yes, we, as CDA, believe that foreign trade requires companies to comply with the requirements we impose. I can keep a whole story about it, but that's the core of what we stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u31	I think we're all quiet about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u32	Yeah, that I'm so short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u33	But there is no guarantee at all. If that's what the CDA thinks, I'm gonna love it. I agree, but then you have to be against the Mercosur deal. Mr Geurts may have missed the press release, but the headline is that a deal with Mercosur would be a dead end for the EU, for farmers and for citizens. I can put the press release on your table in a minute. The farmers beg you: don't do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u34	Mrs Ouwehand knows, like me, that a headline must always attract attention, but you always have to look beyond the headline of a press release. I don't have it in mind right now, so you're gonna leave it with me in a minute and I'll read it. But I think there is reciprocity in foreign trade at the heart of the matter, including Copa-Cogeca. They also believe that trade must meet European requirements, that it must be done in an equal way and not otherwise. I can't help but imagine it's like this. I also had a debate with Mrs Ouwehand this afternoon on a very different subject. I realize that, now that she can't manage in this Chamber to chase out 70% to 100% of livestock farming in the Netherlands, she's simply trying to ban meat consumption in Europe and imports of meat. I thought about Mrs. Ouwehand's contribution: gosh, is she going to promote Dutch meat, made in Holland, eat that meat. But, apparently, she has deviated from that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u35	This wasn't a question, but an encore, let's just say. I give the floor to Mr Futselaar of the SP for his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by disappointing the Minister for Medical Care and Sport, who is here. I note from his presence that the cabinet had anticipated that the debate on contaminated Brazilian meat would be mainly about sport, but I did not include anything about it in my contribution. Mr. Chairman. In early 2017 the operation Carne Fraca took place in Brazil, which means as much as weak meat. The action of the Brazilian authorities showed that some of the largest food producers in that country were involved in the manufacture and marketing of meat that was not fit for safe human consumption. The rot was deep. In the first year, at least 30 meat inspectors were fired for corruption, 3 slaughter sites were closed and 21 packaging companies lost their export license. The largest Brazilian food producers who are some of the largest in the world turned out to be involved in scandals of bribery that led to the highest regions of Brazilian politics. It is right that the Dutch and European level had a strong response at first, also because we are dealing here with recidivism. Things go wrong in Brazil all the time. At European level, increased surveillance has been taking place since early 2017, when the scale of the scandal began to become clear. Brazilian meat is now being more heavily inspected. In addition, we no longer allow imports from a number of specific companies, the large offenders. But that still raises a dilemma. Because are we not still at risk of getting meat from these companies turned over, with a different name and another label from another company, on our market, especially since the quality checks in Brazil have repeatedly failed to meet our standards? Mr. Chairman. Food safety must be at the forefront. The SP has doubts as to whether this can be guaranteed with meat from Brazil. Then there's another principle. It is also undesirable for us to import meat on a large scale from an area where meat production is directly linked to both large-scale deforestation and structural violations of human rights, especially those of indigenous peoples. In this respect, the new Brazilian regime does not make a great impression. In the European Union, several NGOs have been asking for a long time to take a stand and use the EU's economic power to counter this kind of thing. I would therefore ask the Minister to make an international commitment to this on behalf of the cabinet, even if this has consequences for ongoing negotiations on trade agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u37	The Minister has indicated that he needs about ten minutes to prepare himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u38	The Minister is ready to answer the questions of the MPs. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u39	Mr. Chairman. First of all, food imported into Europe must be safe. This is regulated by EU law. It is about protecting the health of consumers. That is why the food safety aspects of imports are my responsibility. I understand that you spoke about this before this debate. I naturally focus on the issue of food safety and food quality. The most recent letters on Brazilian meat are also on that subject. So I thought it would be good to talk about that tonight. I'm actually glad I got invited. I'm gonna try to answer some other questions, too. If I fail to do so, you will let me know, or I will see for myself. Then I'll take it upon myself to pass those questions on. Trade policy issues, such as negotiations on import quotas and EU negotiations with Mercosur, are the responsibility of Mr Kaag. Official Schouten is about the slaughter of animals and also plays a role in trade relations in the agro-food sector. However, as I have said, I would like to address questions on food safety. It is important enough for that; you have all argued that. We have a comprehensive system of European legislation for food safety. For example, there are European rules for the import of meat and meat products in European hygiene legislation and in a regulation. At European level, agreements are made on whether or not product-country combinations are banned as soon as conditions are not met in third countries. The European Commission's website shall contain the summaries of authorised country-product combinations. That list of authorised product country combinations shall be based on the certification given by the authorities in the third countries concerned to the companies and on the opinion that the European control body Health and Food Audits and Analysis (HFAA) includes in its audits the import of the products from the country concerned. That HFAA could therefore be seen as the European Commission's inspection service. Mr. Chairman. Then to the Brazilian case, if I may put it that way. After the scandal with the contaminated Brazilian meat came to light in 2017, immediate action was taken. This was a cooperation in Europe, involving both the department of VWS and the NVWA; VWS in terms of control policy, and the NVWA in terms of carrying out those controls. When that scandal came to light, if I chose the date correctly, on March 17, 2017, measures were taken immediately. Those are the more stringent measures we are discussing this evening. If I am correct, they started on 21 March 2017. That's what I mean by alert performance. In reply to Mrs Lodder's question, therefore, I say: I actually think that NVWA has acted quickly and decisively here. Mr. Chairman. The European Commission, in consultation with the European Member States, has agreed additional measures for Brazil. They concerned a ban on imports from the companies concerned. That was four companies in 2017 and three more companies in 2018. So these companies were no longer allowed to export to Europe. That's one. Two: additional checks have been announced on the parties originating from other suppliers from Brazil. Thirdly, audits are organised by HFAA in Brazil. Such an audit shall examine whether the appropriate testing methods are being applied, whether the good results are being presented, and more of those components. That is what happened in 2017. And when another scandal came to light in 2018 and had to be stopped from importing companies again, the Netherlands called for a general ban on imports of meat from Brazil. Moreover, this request from the Netherlands was not only taken over from the Netherlands, but also from a number of other Member States. It has been agreed to continue the measures already in place. Imports from the companies concerned have stopped and the increased control in the other import flows of meat and meat products has continued. Mr. Chairman. The NVWA has carried out intensive checks. This means that all parties from Brazil are physically controlled. So all parties, not 50% of a party, but in all parties there is physical control. What does that mean? Open box, thaw, check colour and smell and check a possible follow-up. So all batches from Brazil are physically controlled, and 20% are microbiologically tested for salmonella. That is a much heavier way of working than usual, because otherwise it will only happen if there is a reason to do microbiological research. This method of working indicates that contamination rates have fallen to a very low level: in the order of 2% to 0,3% of the imported lots. Mr. Chairman. I come to the current state of affairs. At the moment, it has not been decided to reduce the more intensive monitoring frequencies I have just mentioned. This will have to be decided at European level in the consultations between the Member States and the European Commission. Next Monday, to be precise, the European Commission's expert group with the Member States will meet again in Brussels. I took a look at the schedule. The subject of Brazilian meat is on this, but it is fair: I think that it is mainly a discussion of the state of play and that the results of the HFAA audit that is being carried out this year are not yet known. But the stricter regime, the more intensive monitoring frequencies still apply. I thought it appropriate to report this in advance before I would answer a number of questions from your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u40	Let me see if I understand the minister correctly. I referred to the audit reports, which I read. The latter is from 2018. The conclusion is still that the recommendations from previous audits have not been followed. There is still no guarantee that exported poultry meat complies with EU rules and no guarantee that the level of veterinarians in slaughterhouses is consistent. In other words, we know that there are risks with imports of meat from Brazil. Then it comes to the Netherlands, and then additional capacity is released at the NVWA to control all these imports. How many people is that and who pays for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u41	Let's meet two interruptions in threes, thank you very much. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u42	I don't have those numbers on hand. I wanted to explain to you that there are both controls on the Brazilian side and that the Brazilian government takes them seriously. The issue of exposing this Brazilian meat fraud in a number of companies has also been brought in from Brazil. It also shows that Brazil itself has an interest in taking measures. That's one way. On the other hand, there are the more intensive controls from the EU that have not yet ended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u43	I find it strange that the Minister does not have an answer to the questions that lie in his area. In the Netherlands, enforcement in slaughterhouses is not doing very well either. The NVWA is in big trouble. The Minister knows all about that. Then we have the European import system where a European audit team is announced once a year. And even then, the conclusion is that it's not quite in order. My question is: how many NVWA people are being used to constantly monitor that import? If the Mercosur deal continues, this means a reduction in the import levy on that meat and thus a huge increase in imports. What capacity of the NVWA does the Minister see in front of him? The NVWA will have to open all those boxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u44	Thank you. If the Minister does not have all the exact details, we also have a second deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u45	On the contrary, I would like to stress that the NVWA has carried out the more intensive checks. All parties from Brazil are physically controlled. 20% is studied microbiologically. These studies show that contamination rates have fallen to a very low level. I think it is important to mention that. I would like to ask the NVWA how many inspection hours are involved. I was in contact with NVWA just before the debate, but I did not foresee this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u46	If that information can come later, I'd love to. I would like to add a question: what commitment does the NVWA have to make if imports from Brazil increase enormously? How many people do we have to free to open all those boxes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u47	Let me see if the Minister can come back to these questions in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u48	No, I'll do that right now. The audit by HFAA must be carried out this year. It is then also necessary to consider whether the more intensive checks will be maintained or whether a different agreement can be reached. That is, of course, a foundation for agreements on the deployment of capacity of NVWA employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u49	What about the previous question? That is what my question was about. Can you come back to that in the second term, or rather in writing at a later date? I'm gonna take a look at the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u50	I'm looking at all kinds of experts, but I haven't had my glasses. I'm gonna see if I can answer that in the second term, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u51	The Minister says, "I won't know until that audit is done." I would like the undertaking that we will be sent that information. This cannot be done in the second period, because the audit is still to be carried out. But I'd like to get this information to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u52	I understand that very well. The question is as follows: if more intensive controls are to be maintained for much longer, how much capacity is involved? I can promise you that. I don't think that's very complicated. Maybe I'm looking at this a little too sunny, but I think the colleagues from NVWA can tell you that. It's a question of fact. A factual answer to that is possible. Don't grumbling. Mr. Chairman. That was my introductory remark. Then I'd like to answer a few more questions. In Mrs Ouwehand's speech there were actually all rather explicit questions addressed to LNV's colleague. What does the Minister of LNV mean? What did the Minister of LNV see? It's kind of hard to put me in her head. Maybe I'll do it at one point. How does the Mercosur deal in the process relate to the vision of circular agriculture? What does the Minister of LNV mean by the objections to the Mercosur deal? The Minister of LNV explores the possibilities for the international elaboration of the agricultural vision. On 3 April the Netherlands participated as co-organiser in a workshop at the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. The Minister of LNV will send you the report in due course. The Minister of LNV shares the concerns of several EU Member States about possible consequences of a change of government in Brazil for the sustainability goals. This was introduced at the Agriculture Council on 4 May. Mr. Chairman. I really have to leave the other questions to LNV's colleague. I'll lead them through.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u53	May I ask you a question about that, Minister? Is it possible to send questions which you cannot answer to the Chamber in writing, if necessary, through your colleague? I think the MPs were helped with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u54	The alternative is I'm gonna call Mrs. Schouten and put her on speakerphone. I didn't mean to do that. So I prefer written answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u55	And is there a preference in terms of term? I'm also looking at Mrs. Ouwehand. Can this be done before the votes, or is this need not so strict?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u56	That's not really an open question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u57	Since there is a certain handicap in the debate, I am also trying to facilitate Members of Parliament. So I would like to give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand to state whether this is really necessary or whether it can be done at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u58	Mr President, first of all, this is a special evening. I would very much appreciate a written reply from the Minister of LNV. If that is possible within a week, I would also like to add the motion I would like to table later. I would like the Minister of LNV to respond to that, because I had written the motion specifically for her. And I'd like to add one more question. The Minister for Medical Care just said: on behalf of the Minister of LNV, I can only say this and that. I would like to ask the Minister of LNV if she remembers that the Chamber has adopted a motion which states that, in view of the circular vision, the Dutch trade policy of the Cabinet must be judged against its objectives. If that can come with the answer to the written questions and there is a response to my motion within a week, then tonight we have found a solution to this particular construction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u59	It's been noted. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u60	I'll pass on this wish. Mr. Chairman. Then the appeal Mrs Lodders of the VVD made: in the event of fraud, the alarm bells must go off. Mrs Lodders asked, but she asked me if I had the impression that in this case the alarm bells went off in time with the NVWA. That is so; I am therefore giving an affirmative answer. On March 17, 2017, that Brazilian fraud came to light. On 21 March, the European Commission introduced more stringent measures. For the fraudulent Brazilian companies, there was a ban on imports. For the other Brazilian companies, 100% of all consignments were subject to a physical check on imports into the EU and 20% of the consignments were subject to a microbiological examination. So that was four companies in that year. In 2018, three more fraudulent companies were found. This was due to the additional measures taken by the Brazilian government, supported by the increased European controls. That leads to the following. In 2017, 2% of Brazilian consignments of salmonella were present and in 2018, fortunately, this decreased to that 0.3%. So fraud control works. That was my answer to Mrs Lodder's question. Then I say in the direction of Mrs Van Weerdenburg...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u61	Before you begin, I believe there is an interruption by Mrs Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u62	I also asked how it went. The Minister did deal with this in the introduction. The Netherlands has argued for a total ban on imports. For the fact that this may not happen right away in the first place, I think there is something to say, but in 2018 it was still more large-scale. I have a feeling it went through that period from 2017 to 2018. But even if they are new companies, it will of course help if you as a European Union make a strong statement. The Netherlands has argued in favour of this with a number of other Member States. The European Commission has not done so. What's going on? Can the Minister say a little more about that? Because I think that will help even more, as with China and the United States.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u63	Indeed, the Netherlands has argued for a total ban on imports. The Brazilian government was able to tackle the fraudulent companies. The Brazilian government also introduced stricter controls for other companies, so that happened on their side. This led to the end of Europe's decision-making process not to impose a total ban on imports. So those were the additional measures taken in 2017 and early 2018 in Brazil, which led the European Union not to reach an overall ban in 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u64	In 2017 we have large-scale fraud and contaminated meat......................................................................................................................................... In 2018, the level of fraud will increase, because there are more companies. At the same time, as Mrs Ouwehand did in her questions, you note that the controls on the Brazilian side are not very helpful. There is also fraud with certificates and the like. I am trying to find out when the European Commission is going to introduce a total ban. In the end, it is the Dutch taxpayers and the Dutch companies who have to pay the NVWA for all these checks. So it's okay to have some strength behind that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u65	I share that view. I'm just gonna bring that back to light on the fraud. I brought a letter in which Brazil itself mentions this fraud. It has itself been committed to measures. I also have the impression that these measures have started to work because the contaminated lots have been so drastically reduced. I just mentioned the percentages to you. My aftertaste of this subject is, so far, that both on the Brazilian side and on the European side measures have been taken and have been working and continuing to this day. That's a solid stick behind the door for the Brazilian government. I have not been able to get the film back completely, but the combination of measures taken on the Brazilian side and the tightening-up of measures taken on the European side in 2017 and 2018 made the EU decide not to proceed to a total ban on imports of meat from Brazil.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u66	Rounding up. That's clear. I had also asked a question about the 20% microbiological controls that took place from 2017 until the observation in 2018 of that larger case. I asked if there were any extra infections at the time. But if I understand the Minister correctly, that is not the case and it has really been a new observation in 2018. If that is answered in the affirmative, I think everyone has done their job and I look forward to the last audit that has yet to take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u67	This intensified import control established by the EU for Brazil has led, in addition to documentary control and physical control of the consignments, to the additional microbiological examination for salmonella being carried out on 20% of the consignments. Here too, consignments may only be imported after a favourable result. 11,000 parties were checked and 157 parties were refused. That leads to the conclusion that the system really worked here. Then there are the questions put by Mrs Van Weerdenburg. I have now answered some of her questions in previous speeches. The question that remains is: why not an import ban until everything is in order? Actually, I already said that. The European Member States have agreed on sufficiently strict measures. The farms concerned are no longer allowed to export and there are additional controls on the remaining meat flows from Brazil. We can see that these measures are having an effect. That is why there is no general ban on imports.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u68	In his introduction, the Minister illustrated how things were: the inspectors opened the boxes and thawed the meat, and then they looked at it and smelled it. But I've asked for salmonella quite specifically. You can't see that, can you? Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u69	No, but it's also and-and. There are checks opening a box, but on top of that, microbiological tests for salmonella are carried out on 20% of all consignments. That 20% rule is really different and really more than it normally is, because normally you only do it with a risk, with a suspicious situation. So there's the extra element. It's en-and.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u70	Yeah, I get that, and also that 20% is already more than usual. But we're talking about a huge scandal here. I have seen figures showing that about half of all reports of tainted or contaminated meat in the European Union are Brazilian meat. So why take such a risk? I would almost ask: why only 20%? I understand the capacity isn't there to control 100%, but you're at great risk. It concerns food safety and human health. 80% is just checked on sight. How much goes through? You can't rule it out, and I understand that, but don't you think it's an unacceptable risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u71	No. I have just argued that the number of detections of consignments of salmonella has fallen dramatically. So the policy really works here. The performance was well in order and alert. That's what makes me hope. As the speaker has already indicated, you cannot reverse every box and every steak. You can't thaw everything. But we have the combination of the documents and the conformity check and also the microbiological examination. Those increased measures work in this case. I think that's a really good reason. And we keep our finger on the pulse in European connection with these HFAA audits.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u72	Finally. I hope that people will remember the Minister's words very well when they will be in the supermarket next Saturday for meat. It's like a Russian roulette. You take risks in terms of food safety and the health of the Dutch citizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u73	I didn't find a question in here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u74	Yet I respond to that, because it is not a Russian roulette. We work in the Netherlands incredibly hard on healthy and safe food. We'll always have to do that, but you can't check all the eggs, one by one, on the inside and the outside. I understand the question very well, but this is always the hard part with guarantees. On the other hand, I can argue that you need to take action where there are risks. They are well taken in this case. It seems that adequate measures have also been taken. This contributes to a good faith in safe food. Then I come to a number of questions from Mr Geurts. First of all, he said that, if I understand correctly, Brazilian companies are still not allowed to export to the European Union. That's right. Is this properly respected and enforced? Yes, I have just explained how control and enforcement work together. Can the Minister explain how action is taken if irregularities are detected in import controls? I have just answered that question. If there is an increase in food from a particular country that does not meet our food safety requirements, will the problem be escalated and will measures be taken that not only respect the importer, but also the country? I would also like to answer this question in the affirmative. That's actually the case of Brazil. This wasn't just about the meat companies. Here too, the country, the meat industry from Brazil as a whole, is subject to much stricter rules than in other situations. So yes, we are looking not only at the importer concerned but also at the country. Then Mr Geurts asked whether we have created the right conditions for whistleblowers from business or public authorities to report in case of unsafe practices. As I said before, we in the Netherlands are doing everything we can to ensure that everyone can report signals. A hotline has been set up at the NVWA. In another case, I have mentioned that there are 20,000 reports per year in the order of 20,000. 20,000! Maybe that's because you can report there anonymously. In the EU, the authorities also inform each other through the food fraud network and through the Rapid Alert System Food and Feed (RASFF). So, yes, I think there are good systems to use and that it can easily be reported in low-threshold. Mr Geurts asked whether we should not come up with an obligation for food businesses to report such incidents and thereby prevent incidents. The mandatory reporting already exists. This is an obligation stemming from European legislation. Companies must always report signals to the NVWA, which can then transfer them to European colleagues. Then Mr Geurts made a reference to a 2013 report that we have been looking for. The 2013 report recommends that the European Food and Veterinary Officer, the FVO, and national authorities carry out checks on the overall balance of outgoing and incoming flows. Mr Geurts asked if there was anything to be done with that recommendation. I have now understood that Mr Geurts referred to the EU report prepared by EU MEP Esther de Lange following the horse meat incident in 2013. This report makes recommendations to increase the chances of food fraud. And yes, a number of improvements have been introduced since then. That's how the European food fraud network was set up, which I just appointed. The authorities shall inform each other within this network and deal with fraud together. In addition, cooperation between the investigation bodies Europol, Interpol and the food security authorities was strengthened. For monitoring the in- and out-flow of meat, I must refer you to Mr Kaag. I don't have any numbers on standby. But the recommendations worked. Finally, I have a question from Mr Futselaar: do we want to import meat from countries where human rights violations are involved? For the answer to this question, I should also like to refer you to Mr Kaag. I have focused on food safety issues in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u75	I can live with that, but I also asked for a specific ban for a number of Brazilian companies: what if another packaging comes around the product, another name comes on it and it still comes on the European market? Aren't we still quite vulnerable to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u76	That's a difficult question. I believe that the European borders, including, for example, the port of Rotterdam, are well equipped to deal with meat controls. Can you completely rule out the fact that there's ever gonna be a wrapped box of meat with a little ship to another port? No, of course you can't rule that out. That is why, in response to the question put by Mr Geurts, I have stressed the importance of low-threshold reporting by all kinds of companies, whether it is a grocery chain, a restaurant chain or another party. This isn't something you're gonna use for a family. Professional parties must therefore be involved. Since other parties suffer damage from it, I consider the likelihood that it will be reported. By making it low-threshold, I think there's a functioning system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u77	I always try to make sure that my questions are a challenge for the cabinet. I understand the Minister's answer, but are there any indications that meat is being processed on a large scale, either by our own NVWA or by our European partners? Or are those clues not there or hardly there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u78	Before this debate, we were able to check whether there were any reports of food fraud involving Brazilian meat in the European system in recent years. No reports have been made. Then, of course, you can reason two ways: does it work well or not? But I take hope out of this. Mr President, so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u79	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term. Is there still a need for a second term? Only with Mrs. Ouwehand. She's already announced a motion, so we're gonna listen to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for answering the questions, but it seems that the Minister for Medical Care has not learned much from the fipronil crisis. We also saw a fraud with a certificate. We could see that illegal means were used. So there was a risk, but there was no intervention. It was only when these products entered the food chain that the Minister for Medical Care had to take action and destroy all those products. That's about the approach to imports of Brazilian meat. We know it's no good there, but we're just letting it come to the Netherlands. And then the boxes have to be unpacked here and the stuff destroyed. So my final question to the Minister for Agriculture is: how does it relate to her ambitions to prevent food waste? Then there's the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that negotiations on an EU trade agreement with Mercosur countries have accelerated and that a final agreement may be concluded in October;]] [[noting that at present in Dutch shelves there are products produced in Brazil under much less stringent conditions and that chemicals banned in the Netherlands and the EU have also been used;]] [[Notes that Brazil exported more than 300 million kilograms of chicken meat to the European Union in 2018, almost three times as much as Ukraine;]] [[Whereas a trade agreement with Mercosur countries will lead to even greater imports from these countries, including cheap beef, chicken meat, eggs, sugar and soya;]] [[whereas European farmers' organisations are totally opposed to a trade agreement with Mercosur countries;]] [[calls on the Government to make a clear statement, both in the various Councils and in the European Commission, against a trade agreement with Mercosur countries in which agriculture is included,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26991-551]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u81	I believe that this motion or a motion of equivalent effect has already been tabled by the Animal Party once before. So what does Mrs Ouwehand intend to do with this? Does she think two weeks later the Chamber will decide otherwise?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u82	In any case, I would like a response from the Minister for Agriculture, who said to the Chamber and to the farmers that she is concerned. But we have seen before in the Ukraine deal, for example, that just saying you're worried doesn't help. You must send a clear signal towards the European Commission. I am therefore very curious whether the Minister of LNV will also turn her concerns into a clear no. I would add that there is another debate on the agreement with Ukraine, because there were two different signals from the cabinet. The Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Co-operation dismissed the proposal to take a sharp position with the European Commission. But once that deal was closed, the Minister of LNV was angry. Well, that's all there is to it. Are these two rulers of the same opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u83	We are going to wait for that debate, but I note that Mrs Ouwehand and the Animal Party simply go off with this motion every ruler until something happens somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u84	Well, I'd appreciate that anyway, so I'm sure I'm willing to. But I also have a good reason to ask the Minister of LNV about this. I have seen the questions raised by the VVD about the cuts in the Ministry of the Environment in Brazil and about 120 chemicals that should not be used in Europe and the Netherlands. The Minister of LNV sent those answers today, but it doesn't help you much. I therefore assume that the concerns about this deal have also grown with the VVD Group. Or isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u85	Thank you. An open end.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u86	I am a little challenged by the question of whether the concerns of the VVD Group have grown. I indicated in my first term that I will certainly come back to that in response to the answers to the questions at the LNV Council. Mrs Ouwehand knows that I am always very critical of the use of plant protection products in the Netherlands or outside Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u87	Yes. And so I expect this motion to be able to count on support. After all, it is also about the import of sugar. It could be that in Brazil the neonics we have just banned in the Netherlands are allowed, which the VVD says is annoying for our sugar farmers. So I'm not ruling out that the VVD joins the Party for Animals and says we just shouldn't do that deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u88	I think we're gonna hear that now. Mrs. Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u89	I can help Mrs Ouwehand out of that dream today. I will advise my group to vote against that motion. Why? Because Mrs Ouwehand wants to leave agriculture outside the trade agreements. If Mrs Ouwehand really wants to do something for the Dutch farmers, it would be wise to listen to the VVD once in a while and to support us. We make a lot of good proposals, precisely to protect the environment and our food production.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u90	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. A question has been asked and a motion has been tabled. I see that Mrs Ouwehand has remained in the chair. That's always allowed, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u91	I would really praise the day when I think that a VVD proposal on agriculture is a good idea. Let us not rule out this possibility, but it must be a proposal that actually protects the environment. And I don't see any of that yet. Come up with ideas!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u92	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. The Minister needs one minute to prepare his response. I'm suspending the meeting for a single moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u93	I ask the Members to take their place again. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u94	Mr. Chairman. I would answer the question of how much NVWA commitment is needed for the additional checks. A piece of the puzzle I can now lay. I cannot yet give you the exact extent of the commitment, but I will inform you in writing. It is good to mention that the costs of these import controls are borne by the companies importing them through a fee. These controls are therefore not charged to the public budget. You probably already knew, but then I'll say it in abundance. The remainder of the reply therefore follows in writing. It has been asked whether little has been learned from the fipronil crisis on this side. I do not think that can be said. I believe that we have learned a lot and are still learning from the fipronil crisis. A debate such as this evening may lead to you and me and the rest of the Netherlands, which are convinced that we are committed to food safety. That will always be an important role in our policy. So we learned a lot from this case, as well as from the fipronil crisis. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 551 on the trade agreement. I understand that a similar motion was tabled earlier. That motion was then dissuaded and then rejected. If you ask me for a ruling, you know that the cabinet speaks with one voice... I will advise her again, but Mrs Ouwehand has asked very explicitly for the opinion of LNV's colleague. So, in addition to dissuading me, I would also like to ask the colleague of LNV, who still has to write a letter to give her opinion, her appreciation of the motion. But I think I do. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u95	Thank you. This means that we have a written appreciation from the Minister, but I would like to look at Mrs Ouwehand to see what she wants to do with her motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u96	Mr President, I shall then hold the motion, as we had previously exchanged in the debate. If the answers to the questions put to the Minister of LNV, including the appreciation of the motion, can come to the Chamber in writing by a week, I can then put the motion to the vote. I am sure the Minister of LNV is aware of the concerns she has expressed to the European Commission about this deal. I would strongly recommend that she include it when she reads this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u97	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u98	That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-14.u99	I thank the Minister. I thank the MPs and any viewers at home.
