ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-5.u1	Finally, we will go to Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP for his question to the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, who replaces the Minister, and whom I would also like to welcome, on the increase in the number of communication staff in the government. I call Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-5.u2	This cabinet has a lot to explain. This is also noted by the fact that the number of communication staff in the ministries increased by 10% during this period. It's 703 fte now. That's gonna run into the 1,000 people soon. I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State what all these people cost. And what do they do? Occasionally we read that in the media, when research reports are rewrote or are leaked as strategic half-truths or when we all get wrong figures from the ministry, but what else do they do? This secretary of state is from the Ministry of the Interior. And what's the point? During this period, the Ministry of the Interior has more communication staff. So this Secretary of State shows that it is possible, but why can't all the other ministries? The biggest increase was in Health. They now have 81.1 FTE. That's 15 fte more than in the previous cabinet. I wonder why Minister Hugo the Young needs them all. I think you need one to write a text, one to look at social media and maybe one to buy new shoes once in a while, but what's the rest doing there? I would like to ask this Secretary of State: the policy is not a product, is it? A ruler, a minister isn't better if he's put more into the market, is he? The policy isn't good because you sell it better, is it? Why do all these people have to enlist? How much is it? And what would we save if, for example, half of those communication workers were fired and that money was invested in an independent journalism fund?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-5.u3	There. Mr Van Raak started with a nice compliment; that's a lot. All we have to do is get the rest of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-5.u4	This is a historic moment, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna take it for a second, too. Indeed, the total number of people engaged in broad communication has increased. This can be explained to a large extent from an additional department that has joined. The number of directors is also higher than in the previous cabinet. But what is even more important is that the nature of communication, the way in which it is communicated from departments with the population and with citizens, is also increasing in intensity. For example, think of new forms of communication such as social media. The Chamber itself serves that. If you want to do that professionally for a larger audience, it requires extra FTEs and extra bets. I have come to know Mr Van Raak in recent years as someone who is a warm advocate of as little external hire as possible. At my own ministry, which was mentioned as a positive example, I see that we have hired a number of people we used to hire, for example a cameraman who makes footage for videos. That's cheaper. And not only that, it's better if you can do it yourself. That is entirely in line with what Mr Van Raak proposed. With this you can also bring down the pressure to hire externally. I am replacing the minister today. I would like to say, however, that everything in the overviews published annually by the National Information Service and the Ministry of General Affairs, precisely to give insight and to be transparent about everything that happens in the field of communication, ultimately falls to the respective departments, to the different budgets and to the different ministries. So if Mr Van Raak asks me to give some sort of exegesis of the way in which these formations have been built, I cannot do so because this is the responsibility of colleagues in the cabinet. I would ask him to raise the questions he has to departments on this point, for example, as he has just put them, with the ministers concerned. There may be very good reasons for this, but it would be careless for me to give some shots per department, other than what I have said. For example, for the Ministry of the Interior, we are looking very consciously at what we need people to do. Yes, the media landscape, the communication landscape changes and you also need other disciplines. That sometimes calls for other people to hire more people, but that also means that we hire less externally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-5.u5	I just invited this Secretary of State on behalf of the Ministry of the Interior, because that Ministry is doing so well. I would like to compliment Mr Knops, but also ask why all the others do not. He says: we are trying to hire more people ourselves instead of hiring. In the care you not only see that there are a lot more permanent communication staff, but also that a lot of people are hired externally. You can see that in our country there is an entire communications industry around such a ministry to put the policy into the market, to get a good picture of the minister, to proclaim half-truths, to adapt research reports and to bring a lot of dubious figures into the media. On the other hand, it is becoming increasingly difficult for independent journalists. Here in Parliament, there are not thousands of journalists. There are against the thousand communication staff in the towers in the ministries. I sometimes wonder if that is still an equal battle, if that is still in harmony. That is why the SP proposes not to hire additional communication staff, but to reduce them considerably. I'm making a proposal: half, and why don't you invest that money in a fund for independent journalism? Because it's a lot of money. According to RTL's calculations, this 10% increase is soon EUR 3.5 million per year. Those are huge amounts of money. Is the Secretary of State prepared to cut it a lot and use that money where it can be spent much better: critical journalism, investigative journalism and not overpaid communication staff?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-5.u6	In general, I can say this about it. With all the people employed by the government, you have to ask yourself what the added value is and whether we really need those people. That debate really needs to be held in the budgets with the leaders concerned, if Mr Van Raak thinks that it is too easy, too much or whatever in some departments. At the same time, I see from my own experience and expertise that there are professionals on our own department, not to create images, but very simple to communicate with the public outside. That goes in a much more low-threshold way than several years ago. The social media also ensure that departments are expected to react faster. But you can also see it, for example, when it comes to inclusion, often discussed in the Chamber. The moment I write a letter to the Chamber about inclusion that is meant to be very clear and very simple, I have to make extra efforts because writing an easy letter is more difficult than the other way around. This is one of the examples from my own practice, in which I see that the bar is rightly high for a government that communicates transparently to the citizens and at the same time has to communicate quickly, but that it should not cost anything. I agree with Mr Van Raak that we need to be critical of any expenditure, any additional investment in human resources in departments, but I cannot say that it is exorbitant. Again, a department has joined. That is 40% responsible for this increase. In addition, there are a number of additional directors. They have people who help prepare speeches, with the communication, with the talk. That's just a professional thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-5.u7	The last sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-5.u8	The Secretary of State says if I send a letter to the Chamber, I'm gonna need a lot of communication staff to explain. I would say: Secretary of State, then send a clear letter and make good policy that explains itself. The Secretary of State is in charge in the Home Office. I ask the Secretary of State to make sure that it is taken care of elsewhere. Don't let it go up, but let it go down. I am thinking of the policy, but also of the transparency of our democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-5.u9	Thank you, Mr. Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-5.u10	I agree with Mr Van Raak: clear communication. But again, that's not always easy. You're gonna need extra efforts to do that. We'll deliver them to us, too. We are also trying to communicate very clearly. Let me give you an example: the number of parliamentary questions... You can say "a Chamber question is a Chamber question, which is answered by a policy officer," but communication is also looked at. The number of parliamentary questions is also increasing. The number of citizens' questions is increasing...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-5.u11	I wouldn't bring that up if I were you, because that raises other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-5.u12	I'll do it anyway, Mr. Chairman. You know me: I don't turn my heart into a murder pit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-5.u13	I hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-5.u14	I would just like to mention that as an indication of the increase in demand. Sometimes you have to invest in order to serve the people, and that's what we want. I'll send the signals to my colleagues. That's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-5.u15	That's right. Thank you. Then there is a question from Mrs Van Brenn of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-5.u16	Mr. Chairman. We want to take advantage of the opportunity, if the Secretary of State is going to address his colleagues. It has disturbed us very much to see how exorbitant VWS has grown in communication. There are indeed three rulers there now, but it seems as if they have to campaign permanently and that they need such a large staff to do so. We would prefer that money to go to care instead of just being spent within the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-5.u17	I could say a great deal about the substance of this, apart from the fact that I do not have the impression that there are unnecessary numbers of people hired, but I would ask you to ask those questions to the VWS leaders, because they can answer them in substance and can also account for why they make certain choices in it. In general, we need to be sober on this point and not do excessive things, but citizens can expect us to explain the policy, which is sometimes quite complicated, well and that we will also answer them when they ask us questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-5.u18	Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if perhaps the knowledge and skills at BZK about communicating in the digital world I congratulate him on this and that is the second compliment that can also be used in the other ministries by simply sharing knowledge. And perhaps it is also possible that one of the new FTEs in the government is present here, including the questioner, who is not so active on social media... I don't think I have seen any tweets by Mr Van Raak... gives a digital course on social media, among others to Mr Van Raak, so that they can see a bit more how the government actually communicates digitally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-5.u19	Well, I don't know. Oh, no. Then the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-5.u20	Mr. Chairman. We would like to do the latter if there is a need. I hear there's no need. Then sharing knowledge and experience. The whole landscape of communication is changing, as I have just said. Consultations are already taking place between the Directorates of Communication from different departments to see how you can do things the right way. I just mentioned the example of reducing hiring and just getting capacity into the house for things that belong to the core business of your communication policy. Everyone almost works with movies these days. Except Mr. Van Raak, but everyone else. That means people expect that and we have to act on it. So it is already happening, I say in the direction of Mr Middendorp. I will convey the message to colleagues in the cabinet to look again at their own communication departments and try, where possible, to improve matters and prevent unnecessary hiring. I don't have that image, but I'll be happy to transmit the signal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-5.u21	Thank you. That brings us to the end of this Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. and then we shall vote.
