ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u1	I would like to give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Members of Parliament for their contributions yesterday and, of course, for the questions they have asked, but also for the compliments they have given. That's always good to hear. In order to assist Members of Parliament in the further classification of the debate, I would like to let you know which blocks I intend to do. First, I have a brief general introduction. I won't make it too long. Then I would like to move on to sustainable transport, which includes public transport, rail and bicycle. Then I'm going to circular economy. That'll be limited. We had a good and long debate on this yesterday. And I end up with clean and safe living environment. Mr. Chairman. This is the year of implementation. The ambition is to keep pace and quickly take further steps to live up to our long-term ambitions. Those long-term ambitions include a climate-neutral Netherlands with sustainable transport that has significantly reduced CO emissions by 2030, with a much more efficient use of raw materials in the circular economy. After all, by 2030, we want to reduce the use of raw materials by 50%. We aim for an even better railway, good international connections, good connections with our country parts and more space for the bike. With the future image of the OV, we have been there for the past year, together with all parties, for that has really been a process that we have worked with all the parties involved and has laid a solid foundation for. And of course we aim for a clean, healthy and safe land with clean air, which we finally breathe all day long, and good soil quality. In short, a safe environment to live in. We are also going to take new steps next year with the Clean Air Agreement and the integrated environmental vision. Mr. Chairman. It is also a matter of urgency from the questions put by the Chamber. There is the task of being able to cope with growth on the track and in public transport in a good way. We must ensure that we create a safe living environment without, on the other hand, closing down the economy. Those kinds of questions are big and complex, but they do require action. I told you, it's the year of implementation. This requires all parties, for example to give their hands and feet to the development of the Climate Agreement. It's good that the deal is here. Now it is a question of setting up regulations and subsidy schemes that encourage the new to become normal for everyone. In particular, the cabinet wants to give an extra boost to the second-hand market in order to give that group access to electric driving. The bike is already the current normal in our country. We're just gonna build that up. Mr. Chairman. When we talk about implementation, I must of course also refer to the National Circular Economy Implementation Programme, which we presented at the beginning of this year. I told you, the day before yesterday, we talked extensively about the circular economy. But then, of course, I am thinking of the National Plastic Pact, all our initiatives to make this a European Plastic Pact, and, of course, our efforts to raise circular economy on the agenda of the climate talks as an integral part of it. Mr. Chairman. Next year I also want to give hands and feet to an integrated environmental vision, which puts a clean, safe and healthy environment at the centre. We want to have better proactive policies with each other instead of having to restore them afterwards. Mr. Chairman. So much for the general introduction. Then I'll move on to the block of sustainable transport. I'll start with tracks and tracks. I have, of course, listened to you all very carefully. Several odes have been brought. I would just like to refer to Mr Ziesgs' ode to public transport, with a wink at Mr Dijkstra, and Mr Moorlag's moving memories of his first five-year train journey. These memories are very beautiful, but of course we also want to provide nice new memories for that five-year-old and for the forty-five-year-old who might like to take the train to work every day. That is why we are working with each other to improve the quality of life for the future. More and more people are using O.V. That's good news. The customer's appreciation has increased again this year. The general judgment was a 7.7. When I think back to the figures of my high school and those of my own children, I think: that is ample enough; you should be very proud of that. It is therefore also worth complimenting all those people who make this possible in practice on a daily basis. I think I can also express that compliment on behalf of the Members of Parliament. We also need this commitment from all those people and from all of us in the future, because the challenges are very great. Up to 2040 the demand for good is really rising enormously, by 30% to 40%. We see with each other that things are getting tight and busy, and so we are also in the process of catching up with each other. The vision of the future therefore says: we want to ensure that it also absorbs its share of mobility growth. In urban areas we can see that ov and bike are just crucial links to keep it accessible. We want to improve the connection to the territories, especially to the north, I say to some of you in particular. And we are also putting a lot of effort into Mr Amhaouch's question about innovation in the industry. We even want to be international leaders, Mr. Amhaouch. So we have a lot to do there. With the High Frequency Track Program, ten minute trains on the most popular parts of our country, and with the EMTRS rail security system, we make the track safer and faster. With the night train, which we want to get back to the Netherlands from the end of next year, we also want to make sure that the train is also an attractive option at longer distances. Not only because the train is good for the climate, but also because it is a very comfortable option, because from Rotterdam you will be in the centre of Paris in three hours with your roller case. Maybe that's giving the train real wings, I'll just say to Mrs Kröger. It is also good that rail freight is increasing. There is a considerable ambition to grow to some 60 million tonnes by 2030, thereby contributing to fewer road freight transport and creating more space, but also less emissions of harmful gases. This is important for the climate. Through the package of measures I have developed together with the sector, we are making rail freight transport competitive. I am glad that the number of rail passengers and goods transported by rail is growing, but it is also of course important that we pay sufficient attention to the people living around that rail. I went to work on Monday, where I immediately heard from people where their concerns are. But that also gives clues to see where we can help them. Think of noise-resistant measures, think of measures to prevent vibrations. Also a good example: I have spoken with residents from Deventer, to which Mr Ziengs referred, and we are indeed going to use the lubrication method here. A dirty word with a nice effect. But I was glad that Mr Ziengs even knew how to tell me that it is all biodegradable. This way you learn things about your own policy from the contributions of the MPs! We would not have it any other way either, I say to Mr Ziengs. 2020 is of course also the year in which the transformation of ProRail into Zbo will take shape. To a number of Members of Parliament who were wondering whether all the necessary documents were available to the Chamber at the same time: of course. Because that information has to be there to be able to make such an integral decision. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll go to the questions. Mr Ziengs asked a number of questions about the night train. They were very logical and legitimate questions. Is it in line with European rules, were there other providers? Of course, we must do what we do properly within the existing European rules. You should also take a broad look at which parties can make a particular offer. We did. But we also want to speed up. And then it turned out that not everyone could offer anything in the short term. Simply seen: the equipment is not there. Then you can either say: I'm gonna wait until 2023/2024, until other parties offer themselves, or I'm gonna start right now and I'm gonna go for a two-way approach. Starting a temporary trial with NS and ÖBB under the current concession of NS, so that we can offer passengers a night train as soon as possible, and during the duration of the trial I will explore in a parallel track, with all kinds of interested parties whether and how the various measures in the market investigation can encourage them to choose the Netherlands as their destination. In everything you have to make sure that this fits the rules, and we have looked into that. Mr Zieng asked very specifically whether the need for a 14-hour night train to Vienna was measured. Can there be a mid-term evaluation? The KIM study shows that there is potential for night trains at eight destinations, including Munich and Vienna. Of course, I also make specific agreements with NS on interim evaluations. Then Mrs Kröger asked at this point which destinations are even more possible for the night train. At the request of the Kröger/Schonis motion, research has been carried out into the potential destinations. This KiM study reveals eight potential destinations in the range from 800 to 1,200 kilometres from Amsterdam. The destinations are Copenhagen, Warsaw, Prague, Vienna, Munich, Zurich, Milan and Turin. With the night train at the end of next year, it is also possible to reach an even greater number of cities with one change. From Vienna you are also very fast in Budapest or Bratislava. These were the questions about the night train. Then I have a question from Mr Amhaouch about the Community stations. He asked: can we get the neighborhood involved in stations and is the Secretary of State willing to talk to ProRail about this? Yes, I am absolutely. Based on the work visits I have made to many stations, I found that ProRail and NS Stations employees are very proud of their beautiful stations. But Mr.Amhaouch also refers to situations in which residents of a certain municipality, together with that municipality, really make such a beautiful old station building a beautiful new vibrant core in their municipality. I've stumbled upon such a beautiful station myself. I think that these are initiatives that we can only benefit from each other, so I would be happy to discuss them. Then Mrs Van Brenk asked if I would like to talk to municipalities that have sent a letter about ground level access to platforms, so that work can be done with work. I say to Mrs Van Brenk: through ProRail's Accessibility Stations program, all stations are made accessible to people with disabilities. People with prams also benefit from, for example, the construction of a ramp and an elevator. ProRail is in constant contact with the municipalities. The whole programme will be ready in 2030, but 90% of journeys to or from an accessible station will be made in 2022. At regular intervals, I will also continue to inform the Chamber about the progress of this programme. Then Mr Moorlag asked if I was prepared to arrange a reconnaissance on public transport for children up to the age of 12. I think we all find a very sympathetic idea for children up to 12 years of age free of charge. That is why it is also very nice that rail transporters offer the Kids Free season ticket, which allows children up to 12 years of age to travel by train for free throughout the Netherlands. But you also know that I do not deal with fares in urban and regional transport, so I cannot really help you on that. What I can do is discuss this point in the National Public Transport Council that we have with each other. There too, I am talking on a regular basis with representatives of regional concession providers and holders. I am, of course, prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u3	I know the Secretary of State doesn't have formal powers, but she does have soft power. An authoritative Secretary of State will be listened to my conviction. But does the Secretary of State agree with me that we should put an end to the patchwork of regulations? They are all very good regulations, but they do have the effect that it is well regulated for rail transport, but that it is very acidic for bus transport, especially if there is no railway station nearby, that one child can take the bus on one zip code for free and that the other child, who lives on another zip code, cannot take the public transport free of charge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u4	Now Mr Moorlag asks me to go beyond a bit of soft power, because now he is asking for a big cross to be established throughout the system we have and in which provinces issue the concessions and therefore also have the power to set the rates. I cannot do that, but I have already said that I am prepared to bring his sympathetic idea to the attention of the decentralised carriers. Our national rail transport operator is already doing it, not just on Wednesdays, for children up to 12 years old. Perhaps the provinces also want to look at it that way. Mr. Chairman. Mr Ziengs and Mr Van Aalst called for attention to be paid to social security in public transport. That is a subject that we regularly discuss with each other and which I also recognize from both Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u5	Let's talk about the previous point. I fully understand what the Secretary of State says. As a state government, we are only dealing with rail, and the regional concessionaire is dealing with his own tariffs. It is a bit of the point that Mr Moorlag makes. The fact that it's free for everyone at the track is fantastic. But then there is that connecting tram or bus to the destination if you take your parents or your grandmother and grandmother for a ride. Then it's nice if it's all free. I hear you say that you are going in good consultation with the regional carriers or with the regional parties involved. I'm trying: can we go a little further in that? Can't we come up with an intrusive recommendation or something? I think it's such a nice idea and it's also widely supported. On Twitter I often saw this point pass. Can't we put more pressure on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u6	I think it is a very nice idea and I also see that a lot of children like to travel by train and have a lot of fun in it. With my own kids, I used to go on an adventure by train. You're doing kids a big favor with that. With that warm recommendation, I will gladly put it to the NOVB. Mr President, social security. What about the extension of the travel ban and a general transport ban? This is a point that I regularly discuss with Mr Van Aalst and Mr Ziengs when we talk about public transport. Social security in public transport is rightly being given attention. We all think that people in public transport should be able to carry out their work in a normal way, and I think that we have also shown each other that we have real attention and that we are also taking steps. Fortunately, in recent years, together with transporters, police, trade unions, ProRail, local authorities and the Minister of Justice and Security, a great deal of work has been done to improve social security in public transport. Incidents in social security and social security experience are monitored and the results are made available through, inter alia, the social security personnel monitor, the OV-Customer barometer and the social security progress report. Then we'll see that we're taking steps, but also that we're not there yet. This subject really requires constant attention. As a result of the reports, we have indeed talked a number of times about such a transport ban. Carriers are entitled, on the basis of the legislation, including the Wp 2000, to impose a travel ban on their journey and modality on the basis of their safety analysis. It remains true that a number of legal conditions must be met. That goes for anyone who has such authority. The members know that, too. Moreover, this does not solve the problem that we have discussed before, namely that someone who causes nuisance will then switch to another mode. We have to be honest about that, too. Transporters can therefore do a lot, but they must always be able to argue that it is proportionate. I'll stay and talk to them, the D.A. and the police about experiences with travel and residence bans. The NS also started a whatsapp-test in June. Following a motion from the PVV, a whatsapp/sms service has been launched to allow travellers who feel unsafe to report this in time. It's also nice to know as a conductor: hey, this is a situation I may not have to go to alone, but where I might like to go with my colleague, to make sure that we de-escalate the matter and allow everyone to continue their journey safely. The test will last until January 1, 2020 and will be evaluated and discussed with all carriers. On this basis, a decision is taken on a national roll-out. The first signals are positive, so that also gives hope for a further roll-out. Of course, I cannot anticipate the evaluation, but I think we have all seen those signals. That is why this will continue to be the focus of attention over the coming years, as I have just said. We'll keep working together. I am also going to record this in an updated joint social security agreement. I'll inform your room about that next spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u7	It is good that a number of steps have been taken in the area of social security. I promised some of my colleagues in the first term that I would be complimenting them. Well, a compliment to the Secretary of State for that. I believe that I have now complied with the CDA's request and can remain critical for the rest of the day.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u8	You can do that very well, as we all know. Then I'll give you a compliment back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u9	I'll come back to the transport ban. We now, of course, have the situation with the burqa ban. Unfortunately, we have not yet discussed this together, but there is now a motion that has been adopted which also makes it possible to impose transport bans in the event of a breach of the burqa ban. I am therefore somewhat surprised at the answer given by the Secretary of State to the effect that it is legally difficult to impose a total ban on transport, because it seems that the ban on burqa can be applied. We are extremely pleased about this, despite all those carriers who still do not know what to do. I therefore repeat my question to the Secretary of State. The transport ban applies to the burqa ban. It applies to all rigs in public transport. Does the Secretary of State agree that she should just send a signal and that we should just make it possible with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u10	Let me send out one very clear signal, and I think that I am also doing so on behalf of Mr Van Aalst: people in public transport should simply be able to do their job; so you just have to respect the people who take care of safety and enjoy a pleasant journey for all of us; you just have to stay away from that. We can give that signal very well with each other. Then there is a ban on transport, because that is what Mr Van Aalst's question is about, of course. You have to have a legal basis to do that. If the law on the ban on burqa creates a basis for the creation of an overall ban on transport, there is a legal basis for that at that time. This is not the case in the Wp 2000, but transporters can therefore impose such a ban on their own modality. I would also like to say a few words about how this is done in practice. I was at Rotterdam Central once in the morning at a security briefing. I saw that the various parties of the different modes, i.e. from the tram and the train and the bus, are very well informed. They all know their pappenheimers. They know exactly which people are hanging out in which places in the city you know that you also have to be extra alert. In practice, therefore, this cooperation will also enable them to take good preventive action with each other. And in this case too, of course, prevention is always much better than cure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u11	In that respect, I think the Secretary of State and the PVV will find each other. We are also aware that carriers are keen to impose a ban on transport. Whether it is a concession or a national ban, we can argue with each other about that. But I think that's exactly what the carriers want. They talk to each other and they know what's going on, but they don't want the man who can't keep his hands at home with a conductor on the train the next day getting back on that same line on the bus. That's what I'm asking the Secretary of State. Is she willing to just make that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u12	There is a basis in the legislation to impose a travel ban, based on the Wp 2000. So there is that possibility, I say to Mr Ziengs. From a generic ban, the judge will also quickly decide that it is not proportional, because people will no longer be able to travel. But I understand Mr Van Aalst's concern. It shall be completed, inter alia, by the proper consultation between all the Parties. Mr. Chairman. Then I move on to sustainable mobility. Well, I was already working on that. This was the cube o. Indeed, we are continuing with sustainable mobility.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u13	Everyone's starting to panic.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u14	Don't panic; there'll be more answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u15	Especially don't panic. The way I got it here, we had a general introduction. You have already answered a number of questions. Then we move on to sustainable transport, or how should I see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u16	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I have a few more questions about sustainable mobility. Apparently, the sticker was in the wrong place. I have something about the 8 billion business miles, something about E10 and an example of the change bikes and the way we are working on innovation in the field of public transport.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u17	I can see clearly from the spokesmen that these are not the questions they still have. I have no idea what order you were in. Mr Amhaouch was first, I understand. Then I'll start with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u18	If it's okay, this is all part of the track, I suppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u19	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u20	An important point is the future capacity on the track. We have seen in the news, but also in the letters and in all kinds of cases that the NMCA makes a calculation and the NS makes a calculation. One says we'll fill up in 2027 and the other says we'll fill up in 2030. A lot has been written about that. In my input, I asked if the Secretary of State could promise to come up with a plan. What is the capacity we need, how big is that hole and how are we going to fill it out in concrete terms? I see today that every time we make loose SMEs, over 3kV, over single-deck or double-deck trains, over longer stations or not. How are we going to put that into practice so that we as a Chamber are also convinced that we have sufficient capacity in 2030 and beyond?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u21	This is, of course, a fair question from Mr Amhaouch, because you should not look at it on a project-by-project basis; you should just have an overall picture of the development we are seeing, of what is needed and whether the investments we are making fit that total that is needed. Whether it is about investment in infrastructure or about investment in the equipment we have, we need to make sure that these investments are all in line with that picture. We use the National Market and Capacity Analysis. That's what we use for all investments, whether it's roads, rail or water. The NS also carried out its capacity analyses. They look at what they need for material in order to achieve the expected growth, and on that basis they make their orders. The NS has also confirmed to me that in principle they assume that the equipment they now have in order is sufficient to absorb the growth of the number of passengers by 2030.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u22	That is one part, but the NS makes a number of choices, and due to the choices made by the NS, there are questions to be asked by ProRail. If the choice of the NS is to go for single decks and we all have to adjust the platforms and adjust the 3kV voltages, while the SMB, which you requested, says that 3kV is not going to work or is too expensive, then the picture is wrong. What the CDA would like to see is not just what we need tomorrow. We are already halfway through this reign; now give concrete insight into what we really need in terms of equipment and infrastructure and the costs involved, so that the Chamber can also make clear choices towards the new period in order to meet capacity requirements.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u23	Absolutely. I think that with the Future Picture OV we have laid an important foundation in which we have outlined what we think the future of public transport should be until 2030, 2040. Of course, there is now a further development of this. It's taking place right now. I will see to it that the questions put by Mr Amhaouch are taken into account in this work, so that we can simply look under the line as to whether it is right. Because that's actually the question he's asking here: is it right? We're gonna work that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u24	We didn't know who the first interrupter was anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u25	Me neither.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u26	Anyway, we agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u27	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u28	I only have a limited question. I received a written answer to my question yesterday when I referred to a letter from the municipalities of Heerhugowaard, Hardenberg and Nunspeet about ground level access to platforms. I am very pleased that the Secretary of State indicates that she is going to study that letter and answer it. My specific question is whether that answer is "no, I'm not doing anything." Or is it a consideration where she really looks at how she can solve this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u29	If I say I'm going to study a letter, it's also with the intention of really looking at what the problem is and what we can do about it. Then the answer is not necessarily yes, but I do not write this down in the written answer to say that we are necessarily going to answer no. We're gonna take a really good look at this, because I get this question. On the one hand, Mrs Van Brenk's question on accessibility has also been asked, but you are also asking this question very clearly from the point of view of safety. Safety on those platforms is incredibly important. For example, at Schiphol Airport we can see that there are real problems there. In other places too, we have seen that there are problems and that was a reason to invest in improvement or extension of platforms. So, of course, we will look carefully at the problem outlined here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u30	This offers hope for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u31	I respond to the reply I received about the Equal Treatment Act, the disabled and the ruling of the Human Rights College that there should also be access for the blind and that Arriva does not comply with it. I think the answer is weak: "Arriva looks at the possibilities." Yeah, thank you for the thunder, but how come this is how it happened? We do know that we have to comply with the UN Disability Convention in the event of a call for tenders, don't we? I assume that is also known in Germany, by Deutsche Bahn. So how is this possible? Is this a tender error? And what is this Secretary of State going to do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u32	These concessions have been granted by local authorities. But I understand very well where Mrs Van Brenk's question comes from, because you would expect this kind of thing to be taken directly into account in any call for tenders. Where "Arriva looks at it" says of course "Arriva is going to work with this." I believe that this is what Mrs Van Brenk is looking for. We have said before that we will look at a number of points to see if there are any lessons to be learned: are or are not the framework conditions properly taken into account in the decentralised procurement process? This is also one of the points of attention, because these calls for tenders must, of course, simply comply with such a treaty. So let me take this with me to that national O.V. Council. This also applies to the question of how this could have happened, so that the decentralised contracting authorities too are well aware of this and so that we not only solve the issue here but also structuralally. That, in my view, is actually the background to Mrs Van Brenn's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u33	Yeah, absolutely. It does have to be structural. At least I'm glad to see that it's all well arranged at the NS. I expect from anyone else who wants to participate, he's gonna follow the same rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u34	I asked a question yesterday about the publication of the ESB. The Secretary of State replied in writing: there will be a market organisation debate. I would have hoped a little more in a first reaction, but I will not insist too much on that now. I do have a question with which I might be able to help the previous question. We could all very well arrange more rail capacity and accessibility at a new Lely line. Then we'll take care of it in one go. I would like to clarify something on that point. The Secretary of State writes: "I am willing to look with the regions at the effects of a high-quality O.V. link to the North. I want to develop this kind of research together with the region." That's actually exactly what I asked. The only point now is: what does the Secretary of State mean by "a high-quality O.V. connection"? Does she mean, if necessary, a new railway line, not immediately tomorrow, but in the sense that this can at least be discussed in the discussions she is going to have?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u35	My experience with the regions is that anything can be discussed in any conversation, if only because the people who sit at the table are themselves talking about what they bring on the table. I should like to put a counter question to Mr Laçin. Does it matter how many wheels there are under a place of travel? Because I believe that this is a high-quality O-V connection, something that is accessible to the public and offers a high-quality connection. Let's go look for that with each other. I believe that Mr Laçin has also carefully examined the whole package of answers and has seen that this line has, of course, been mentioned in the context of the growth fund. There's nothing we can anticipate. There will also be strict criteria. But I believe that these are all elements that will naturally be given their place in this discussion. At least that's what I'm absolutely relying on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u36	Before I give Mr Laçin the floor again, I would like to say that my colleague Mr Van Nispen here this morning, at the start of the budget debate, agreed with you on eight interruptions. I'll add three more now. So you are in possession of eleven interruptions for this debate. Here you can quietly verify your stand with the clerks. Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u37	You...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u38	I can say you already have a lot of them. You're on fire.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u39	I think you're gonna tell us what's going on, Mr President. That's gonna be all right. And yes, the Secretary of State has...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u40	Seven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u41	I'll keep track of it myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u42	Oh, very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u43	I mean it more for the colleagues. I'll keep track of it all myself. Yes, the Secretary of State is right: I did go through the whole package. I have also read the answer to Mr Schonis' question. Indeed, it doesn't really matter to me how many wheels a vehicle has that makes improvements, but I do look at the possibilities. Yesterday I also deliberately talked about building along a new Lelyline, the employment along such a line, the opening of the North Netherlands and the lighting from Zwolle. I tabled a motion on the robustness of Zwolle, which was adopted at that time. I'll be brief, Mr. Chairman. The question is this. Yeah, it doesn't really matter to me. That is precisely why I would also like to give the Secretary of State to take the whole package, including a new railway line. I would also like to tell her that, when we have the investment fund, we will not have to start research, but that we may have already taken the first steps and that we will also be able to move forward quickly. In that light, I hope that the Secretary of State will give me more support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u44	Mr Laçin argues, I think, why he thinks that the Lelyline is part of an investment package aimed at the growth potential of the Netherlands. I'll take note of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u45	Indeed, I raised the point of the night train to Vienna. I also welcome the Secretary of State's undertaking that, at least in the short term, they will evaluate that answer in order to see if there might be other providers. At least that's how I understood it. Actually, my point is this. The Secretary of State stated in her reply that she had chosen this party because it was the only party that could offer the equipment needed for this night train. When I read the Rebel Group's report, I see that it says in a footnote that they actually had too little time to do really good research into which parties were all in the picture. Then how can the Secretary of State conclude that this party was the only party that could supply the material, as the others were not in the picture at all and were not asked at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u46	On that last point I can really reassure Mr Ziengs, because for the market research a wide selection of carriers has been spoken, such as FlixBus, Leo Express, WESTbahn, Eurostar and ALLRAIL. On the basis of all these discussions, the market investigation concluded that for several reasons, such as the timely availability of equipment, no other parties will for the time being automatically return the train to the Netherlands as open access transport. The market investigation shows that this offer is at the earliest in 2023, but that 2024 is a more likely moment. International rail is a priority for this cabinet. That's where we pull each other hard. We also see how stubborn it is. The whole transition from flying to train is also one where we attract each other hard, but we are often really dependent on our foreign colleagues to help us create these connections. This is something we can do ourselves. Of course, we want to get the best out of it for the traveller. It is also quite right for Mr Zieng to ask whether other parties have been looked at. There is and we will continue to do so. I say this to Mr Ziengs. If someone gets up now and says, "I can have that train running by the end of the year again next year, and I need less money for that than the maximum that is currently reserved," then I'm going to have to sit down with the person next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u47	Of course, that is a fantastic offer, although for new entrants it is still short notice, those few months. In any case, I welcome the Secretary of State's commitment to this. But I have also understood from the answer that it can also be done in the interim. If next year after a year it turns out that another with a cheaper option can also occur on that line, then that one is also in the picture. Or isn't that the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u48	We are also going to indicate in this grant that we can also evaluate in the interim. It may also be very disappointing and then we can decide to pull the plug. If you're gonna do a pilot, you're gonna have to give certainty to someone who wants to start. You also want to keep evaluating. If there really is reason to say in the interim that things have to be different, then we need to talk about this properly. The market exploration shows for a reason that there would be no other offer until 2023/2024. So you're going to give certainty to the party you're asking to board for a few years. That's limited. But if we have missed something, if there is now, for example next week, a party that says 'I can really show that I can arrange for less money next year', then I'm going to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u49	Back from Vienna to The Hague. The Secretary of State in the AO Spoor recently indeed embraced the plan to roll out the spread of times throughout the Netherlands. I think that is a very important measure to tackle the hyperspits. Now the first numbers show that even outside of rush hour the highways are starting to fill up. The Minister also mentioned this in her contribution. The train is 110% occupied in the hyperspits and 35% off peak. My question was also: how do we get other people on that train? For that, we have many other things to do. In the answers we have received, I read that we are trying to do that with an app that can save points, or by offering a free cup of coffee. Then I think to myself, "That's not gonna be him." So I want to go back to that rail challenge. Let students and others think along on how to become much more accessible. I've made a search myself. If I wasn't a MP with a pass and had to travel in the off-peak hours, I would have to make a subscription for €52 on top of the regular subscription, and with that I could travel with a 40% discount. These are all extra steps that will never get the people who do not travel structurally on the train. So once again my appeal: involve other creative parties so that we can get out of the car and into the train and set a target of 35% to at least 50%.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u50	That's a call to my heart. I can immediately link it to Mr Ziengs' hackathon. Let us indeed see how we can pull all the creativity out of this. We have every interest in not only investing extra in capacity that is only used in rush hour, but also trying to make better use of all the trains we have during the day to give more people that comfortable journey. That's just making your investments more socially profitable. You would also say that this might save money, including for the NS, in terms of capacity they need to buy for the peak. So maybe there's a smarter way to look at that after all. I think it is important that we also involve the travelers' organisation in these ideas and concepts, because travelling outside rush hour is often subject to a whole day's planning for people. But we're definitely gonna do that. We're gonna see if we can do that in a creative way. Municipalities and provinces ask us to invest in sustainable mobility, in sustainable transport. I mention the distribution of the lectures: 15 minutes earlier start at one, 15 minutes later start at the other. In Nijmegen and Groningen they have achieved fantastic results. In order to achieve this, the cooperation of the municipalities and the educational institutions was really very crucial. We need to be able to roll out these kinds of concepts of success in the Netherlands. So that's what I'm going after. This is the action plan that Mr Amhaouch asked for the other day.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u51	Thank you for that. Whether it's the hackathon or another way to involve the students: that's very good. And don't forget the employers. I heard yesterday morning at BNR a large employer with 13,000 people in Veldhoven who is really actively trying to get people on the bike or on the train. We're gonna have to make that move. An objective of 50% in the off-peak hours is something beautiful as a dot on the horizon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u52	I think it's a beautiful dot on the horizon. These employers are indeed crucial, as Mr Amhaouch says. They are crucial in enabling people to travel differently. Because we can still make it so attractive, but if your employer says "if you're not in between 8:30 and 9:15, you're wrong about me," people are never going to do that. So these employers do indeed play a crucial role.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u53	It is of course super important to try to get people out of the car and walk in the O.V. or on the bike or move them. Much more attention should be paid to this. That's why I'd like to ask the Secretary of State the following. She sketches that she is talking to the VNG and the provinces. If there are any municipalities that bring this day forward, the day on which we celebrate the alternative to the car, the day on which we celebrate the fact that you can do so much with the d, bike and walking; I would like to call him the carless Sunday, and say that they want to organize and need help, then I just hope that the Secretary of State will respond very positively, because that is a wonderful day.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u54	I hope we're not just celebrating one Sunday in the year. I know Mrs Kröger shares that with me. I think there are a lot of days to celebrate that. For the rest, you have heard the Minister's answer and you know that the cabinet always speaks with one voice. You know that I have a warm heart for it, for the bike and for walking. They're actually secret weapons in that crowd, because it's filling up everywhere. We must therefore use everything as effectively as possible. I personally think it's a wonderful initiative when a city decides to do that for once, but that's really up to a municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u55	I'm just trying to make it clear whether a question in this block will be answered. It was about the O.V. data.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u56	I think that question has been answered in writing. I'll give you the short answer for that. You have asked whether this is really being invested independently, because these data must really be accessible to all kinds of parties. I see Mr Ziengs nodding, because this too is a debate that we often have with each other. Yeah, I think that's very important. I think I said in the AO Spoor that there is cooperation with the CBS on this point. Really very specific detail questions I would have to take with me to the second term, but the intention is really that those data should simply be available to as many travellers as possible in order to benefit from that data as much as possible and to get as many options and innovation as possible. That is also why we are using MaaS, together with the Minister. That's one of the conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u57	That part of the question was indeed answered, I think. But I had another question about data. Currently there seems to be some problems with data from, for example, telecom companies, which were always used by, for example, ProRail. Those data don't seem to be shared anymore. I put that question in the first period. Perhaps the Secretary of State could come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u58	I would like to take a look at the question put by Mr Ziengs in the first term and make sure that we can provide further information on this in the second period. I believe that the intention is in the same direction, but we will look specifically at this question. Mr. Chairman. After the event, I will continue with the rest of the sustainable mobility. I've said quite a lot already. It runs in all kinds of places, so we need everything: good o, clean fuels, electric driving, hydrogen, sustainable city logistics, the bike, walking. I think today's budget debate is a good time to highlight that our cycling culture has been successfully proposed for the national list of intangible heritage. What's Dutcher than getting the bike? Employers are also crucial here. I've got some bike ambassadors. I notice that in the meantime it has prestige if you can wear the title bike ambassador. Also Rotterdam said today, I read, that it would like to be a bicycle ambassador. You're welcome. We want to get more people on the bike with the 75 million that we have been able to make available in the Climate Agreement for investment in the bicycle infrastructure, especially in stalls. I hope that municipalities and provinces, together with me, will make a lot of investments in this area, so that we can make more than half a billion investments in bicycles in this cabinet period. That'd be great. But we don't just have to do more of the same. I refer once again to Mr Amhaouch, who spoke about innovation. Yeah, we shouldn't just add to the same theories. I was allowed to ask a question in the context of a broadcast that was just mentioned. My question to innovative The Netherlands was: how can we store bicycles for innovation, so that we can lose even more bicycles in the same stalling spots? In the middle of Amsterdam there is also a bicycle parking lot very expensive, so if we can make it cheaper and more innovative with each other, we can offer even more people a pleasant journey. The Switch bike, where one bike can be used by several people one day, is also a very nice concept in that context. Mr Schonis specifically asked about the role of employers. I have already said something about this, but the expansion of the Anders coalition Traveling from 50 to 500 employers in 2030 is part of it. They commit to CO reduction in the business market. In the BO MIRT we make agreements with regional networks of employers about sustainable mobility. Efforts of frontrunners are stimulated. As part of the Climate Agreement, we have said that we are going to set up a standard-setting regime. That's all gonna work out. We also set up a platform that informs employers, enthusiasts and specifically tells them what you can do, what arrangements there are if employers want to work with it, what matters are legally waterproof and how they can help employees make a choice. Both Mr Van Aalst and Mr Ziengs asked for attention to E10. With the introduction of E10 on 1 October 2019, the Netherlands will sustain the petrol lake. Over nine out of ten petrol cars run smoothly on E10. The regulations ensure that service stations that only have one place to fuel petrol are not obliged to fill them with E10. If someone can't use it, they should always be able to refuel at a gas station. That's the first guarantee. Tank stations that can offer two or more types of petrol may choose to offer E5 or any other type of petrol in addition to E10. So that possibility remains. Mr Dijkstra asked for that. We have also been asked to monitor the implementation and evaluation of this, so that we can identify any bottlenecks. Of course, I'm willing to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u59	That's good. I do know what the purpose of the implementation was. I'm assuming that's how it's gonna happen. But what if you want to fill up with a slightly older car? Out of the eight pumps, half of them are occupied. From experience I know that you have to drive around and see where you can find E5 or euro 95. It turns out that there simply isn't one and then it's said: go to premium. Well, that's what these people do, but then they pay 15 cents extra because they don't want to risk it. This E10 also has a number of disadvantages. I think we should communicate about that, too. I haven't heard anything about that from the government, but you can see it from the industry now. If you put it in a moped or a lawn mower, it's algal after three months. We want to get together, but we have to keep the people informed. Not only should we think about this on paper, but we should also look at what it means in practice now and in the next three months. I'd like to keep an eye on that. You say that there is a lot of petrol running and that a lot of it is also doing well, but the car from before 2000 really has problems with it. And that's about one in ten cars anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u60	Mr Dijkstra rightly says: let us make sure that we have the information right, because this will prevent a lot of irritations. So let's continue to follow that closely. In conversations we have with this industry, I will ask for attention in what way they think that, for example, at a gas station where there are a lot of pumps, they can easily make sense of where people can go if they want to refuel E5. So I'd like to take that up with the industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u61	There was once an idea behind this E10, namely that it would be better for the environment. Only, we are now seeing more and more reports coming across that it is causing problems for certain cars. The Secretary of State says we need to do something about the information. Well, there's quite a lot of information but it's a best laundry list with cars and machines that don't meet it, like the lawn mower, the outboard engine and you name it. Eventually, we agreed it wouldn't be more expensive. Well, we just heard the story of the premium; so it's getting more expensive. Knowing that it doesn't have an environmental return and the price is going up, my question is how does the Secretary of State still reconcile this with the agreements we have made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u62	We have also agreed on this in Europe. We also have a quantity of renewable energy that we have to meet. We try to fit it as carefully as possible within all frameworks. E10 also has a role in this. I have just said that it is important to continue to see the practical problems in implementation and implementation. I think that information is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u63	On the previous point, the 8 billion business mileage that we're going to drive less in 2030 according to the Climate Agreement. I hear the Secretary of State say that she is consulting with employers on this issue to see what arrangements she can put forward. That is very positive, but, of course, there is already a provision in the activity decision. It is a whole article that means that if you are a large company or a large institution, you can, although prescribed, actively engage in transport management either: how do you do with the customers and your staff in terms of business mileage? Is it not an idea, then, to speed up the entry into force of this regulation, which is already in place but has not yet entered into force, so that companies are actively encouraged to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u64	As part of the Climate Agreement, we have agreed that we are making efforts to promote frontrunners, but that we want to take those behind us. This is why a standard-setting system is being developed. I can imagine that, in the context of its development, we will also take a closer look at this arrangement which has already been in place but which has not yet entered into force, because we want to make kilometres as quickly as possible with each other on this point. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll go to the block of clean and skinny living environment. The active protection of our environment is a core task of the government. It is even enshrined in our Constitution. And rightly so, because clean air, biodiversity and good soil quality, that's literally the environment we're walking around in all day. It is not always immediately clear whether and how substances are harmful and how we should deal with them. That is also what we see at PFAS; a number of Members of Parliament have also asked questions about it which I will deal with later. There are concerns, for example, about the construction sector, which I am also going to talk about. Precisely because all these social interests literally come together in that environment, in that environment, the scientific underpinning of what we do is extremely important in order to be able to objectively determine where the boundaries should lie. On this point, I agree with Mr Ziengs who spoke about seeking reasonable space, because that is exactly what I think we are talking about. Science must, of course, be the basis for us. I mentioned in the introduction that I want to come up with an integrated environmental vision next year that puts that clean, safe and healthy living environment at the heart of it. The aim is that we are able to be proactive in preventing the whole thing from suddenly closing up afterwards. I want to avoid problems rather than having to pull the emergency brake afterwards, because that is in everyone's interest. It also includes the proper enforcement of standards, because we all no longer want taxpayers to pay. Mr. Chairman. Clean air is vital. The figures are clear. We live an average of nine months shorter because of poor air quality and one in five children with asthma has........................................................................................................................................................ Our air must and can be cleaner. And by the way, we have to work hard on that in the Netherlands, but it is also real to say that we are partly dependent on European policies. So that's what we're working hard on. But we are also working hard on cities and provinces to come up with a Clean Air Agreement. The commitment is to achieve 50% health benefits by 2030 of all the pollution we emit here in the Netherlands. For the implementation of the Clean Air Agreement, I have earmarked 50 million in the budget. Mr Paternotte asked when the measures of the Clean Air Agreement will become concrete and when they will be introduced. I aim to conclude this year with a large group of cities and provinces that Clean Air Agreement. Later on, of course, all kinds of others can join in if they still want to join. In this agreement, we will take a list of measures that contribute to this target of 50% in 2030. By the way, of course, we have already taken some of the measures if we could take them. If we were able to work with work in the context of the Climate Agreement, the PAS or other discussions, then of course we have not failed to do so. You will, of course, also see these agreements from this point of view and to achieve cleaner air in the Netherlands. Cities draw up their own air quality plan on the basis of the agreement and define the measures they introduce locally at what time. Some have already developed this very concretely in a real air quality plan and others will do so in the coming months or months. Everyone is moving towards this goal of achieving 50% health benefits by 2030. Mr. Chairman. Then PFAS. Several Members have asked questions about the level of the standards for application of soil and dredging contaminated with PFAS. The starting point in our legislation is the duty of care. There are very worrying and mobile substances here, which means that the duty of care means that, without a framework of action, virtually no use can be made in earthmoving or dredging operations, as soon as these substances are found. In order to avoid this, I asked RIVM, at the request of local authorities and water authorities, as scientific advisor to the government in the field of public health, to indicate the limits within which the application of land and dredging is justified. I am pleased that, on this basis, we have also been able to establish the rules of the temporary framework of action, so that we do not have to wait until all the research is completed. That is, I think, what Mr Ziengs meant by the importance of looking up the reasonable space. Mr Stoffer asked for a higher standard. I agree with the emphasis Mr Ziengs places on the reasonable space, because we want to protect health together, but not only because we also want to ensure that things do not lie unnecessarily still. We want to use the space available so that projects in construction and hydraulic engineering can go through. I sat around the table with the parties and saw those people literally standing in the mud with their paws and wondering every day: do I still have work for my trucks? Where are my men going to work next week? Those questions are very real. So we have to look at what can be done, and that must also be the common focus. Of course, we have to do that within the frameworks that RIVM gives us. Fortunately, there are also possibilities within that framework. Because we have issued that temporary framework of action, applications on the ground with the function of living and industry can simply be applied up to 3 micrograms per kilogram dry matter. There is therefore more room there, because there is sufficient basis in the RIVM report to go much higher than the detection standard of 0.1. I will work with all the parties to ensure that areas, where a higher background value should be possible, are actually identified in this way by municipalities. If the background value is higher than 0.1, you can apply it in all kinds of other places. This means that soil quality maps need to be adjusted. Then there is another question about the 0.1 micrograms per kilogram of dry matter. It's based on the limit of determination. Concentrations can be measured from this limit. But that only applies to specific applications where you want to avoid all spread, for example because of the risk of spreading through groundwater, especially deep groundwater, for example when applying in deep pools. You don't want to run the risk of polluting an agricultural land more heavily than it was contaminated at the time. In short, you do not want to spread poison in the Netherlands. That is also the general principle of standstill. Here too we can nevertheless search and use the reasonable space, because if there is already PFAS in the receiving soil, for example, you can apply soil to the same background value. So if the soil on a particular field is already 2 micrograms per kilo of dry matter, you can also apply soil there to the same pollution standards and are therefore not kept to that detection limit of 0.1. When it comes to the pollution of lakes: if they are truly geologically isolated from groundwater, then more can be applied there too. These are all very specific solutions, which must be known. We must therefore, with all these parties, ensure that they are truly aware of what can be done in a specific region. We must always be focused on finding that solution with each other. I am certainly willing to use the space that is available, but I cannot turn to the norm without scientific advice. I also think we really shouldn't want that. I think that Mr Stoffer does not want that either in the end, but that he also wants that reasonable space to be used properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u65	Thank you for giving the Secretary of State a small lecture on the PFAS, so that everyone has a good retina again how it actually works. I have also had to make great efforts in my group to bring this to the fore. But here's what's important. The value of 0.1 has been set as a value that may still be paid off, even below that one-and-a-half-metre limit, below the groundwater, if I put it so well. That standard was actually taken simply because at that time it was the standard they could measure, because I understood that it could not even be measured. A year ago it was possible to measure up to 1 milligram. Apparently it could have been 1 milligram, if this had happened last year. I am not saying that this should necessarily be the value, but I thought it was a very special reasoning that was chosen for the lowest possible value, simply because it is only measurable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u66	No, that's just different. The laws are so in place now that you don't really like anything anymore when you know it's in there. When do you know it's in there? If you can measure it. What's the lowest dosage you can measure? That's 0.1. Otherwise, you have margin of error and all that. So from 0.1, you know it's in there. So you're gonna have to figure out what that reasonable space is. Fortunately, with the temporary framework of action, we have a number of applications that can determine reasonable space. This means, for example, that there is just space between 0.1 and 3. That's a lot more than the 0.1. In addition, there was also said.............................................................................................................................................................................. But if that background value is 0.5, I'm not going to supplement it to 3, because then you're going to pollute clean soil further. So we have to keep looking at the background. The measurement limit is therefore the moment from when to think. Sometimes no reasonable space has yet been defined, but we have to do so. I have asked RIVM a number of questions and I therefore call on RIVM to ensure that it comes as soon as possible, where this reasonable space has not yet been defined, as a temporary framework of action. Then we don't have to wait until all the research is completed, if we already feel we know what can be safe at least.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u67	Nor do I doubt the good intentions of the Secretary of State. I have also indicated that she has acted swiftly by sending that letter on that temporary framework of action. Except it's had a different effect. I used to hammer on that every time. This value of 3 milligrams was also established in Sweden at the time and has been used since 2015. I can imagine that there is knowledge and skill there. I've also spoken to the industry. They said, "Make it one milligram." I said, why not two? Then they said, "Oh, can we do that?" I said, no, you have to have the arguments to make it 1 milligram, because that does not endanger public health. I understand that argument, but we want to speed up the process. The Secretary of State now mentions that there are apparently puddles that can be poured onto, land-based sludge and so on that cannot come out. We need to be able to get an idea of these matters as quickly as possible, because 80% of the land needs to be dumped below that border at the moment. They can't lose it right now. Hence my request for alternative places where there may be a deposit. We've got to get this case back together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u68	Yes, I fully agree with Mr Ziengs. That's why I've sat at the table with all kinds of parties. We're going to organize work conferences. For example, there was a project by Rijkswaterstaat. We sat at the table with all the parties and watched: what can be done with this? When everyone sits together at the table, there appears to be more possible within those same health frameworks than everyone else thought separately. That is why I want to organise work conferences throughout the country where all the parties are meeting the companies, the waterboards, the municipalities, the provinces, the landfills, whatever it takes, the RIVM if that knowledge is necessary and Rijkswaterstaat, which does some tests come together and look: where is it threatening to get stuck here, where is it actually unnecessarily stuck because Mr Ziengs mentioned that the heels have gone in the sand from uncertainty and how can we remove that uncertainty and exploit the space that is there to the maximum? That is absolutely the stake.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u69	I'd like to look forward to a timeline, because this has to be done with the greatest urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u70	I asked my people to inform me this week about how they intend to set up these work conferences. I hope I can inform the Chamber about that soon. There's an emergency on this. That is why I referred to Mr Ziengs. I understand very well that it is a question for companies every day: can I empty my trucks somewhere, where are my people going to work? We need to have the urgency that comes with an issue that counts every day, every week. That's how I'm in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u71	Let me point out that I don't necessarily need a higher standard. The Secretary of State would have understood that, too. It's about when we can get back to work. I really appreciate the fact that these work conferences are coming, but I know that a little bit. My specific question: if you now have a earthmoving company, those people are all listening, watching and so on, when can you get back to work?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u72	You can work tomorrow when the ground you want to move, for example, goes to the city of The Hague. In the municipality of The Hague, they have correctly indicated on the soil quality map what the functions are living and industry. In the places where that is indicated on the soil quality card, you can use the soil to the standard of 3 micrograms. That's really very wide, from the detection limit of 0.1 to 3. Everyone says we can work well with that. In all those municipalities where that has already been indicated, you can just say that. If you have a deep puddle and you're wondering if you can get rid of the dredging at the bottom, then we have a task force at Rijkswaterstaat that can now test whether that puddle is geologically sufficiently isolated from the groundwater. If that is the case, then it can be used in it. If you're a dredging company, you can leave the dredging on the side. Because if you keep the ground in the same place, it's no problem. If you're a dredging company and you can get rid of it downstream, you can. Because downstream would otherwise be a natural process. Then it can also be used. We can do this with each other in a sensible way. There are many possibilities, but I do not think they are sufficiently known. That is why there are information markets, but I want not only information markets that transfer the information, but also work conferences. Let's go together and see what the space is for the complex cases where it's not so obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u73	My last question. Maybe it's on Mr. Ziegs' timeline. When will the work conferences be ready and when will we know what the final picture is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u74	It would be my intention to ensure that we have had all those work conferences before the end of the year. Then they must have been just. That would be the intention. Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u75	On this point, Mrs Kröger?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u76	Yes, please. I stated in the first term that I am particularly pleased that the Secretary of State is now working heavily on PFAS soil pollution. However, I have a question about the point that contaminated soil may be applied in an area where there is already contaminated soil. To what extent is the bio-accumulative aspect of PFAS taken into account? I am not talking about the soil, but about the plants or the trees that grow on that soil and the animals that eat from it. Although the percentage may not be higher in that land, it does accumulate in the ecosystem in that place. The Secretary of State does not have to answer this question exactly, but I would ask her to give it to RIVM with real emphasis that PFAS is really another substance. That is what I want to say to my colleagues. PFAS is bioaccumulative, it's persistent and it doesn't break down. So bringing contaminated soil to an area that is already polluted simply means that there will be even more PFAS in that local ecosystem. So I ask the Secretary of State to ask the RIVM if this aspect of the investigation is to be included.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u77	I'd be happy to. But PFAS is on the ZZS list because it doesn't break down because it bioaccumulates. The grounds mentioned by Mrs Kröger are well known. These are the reasons why this substance is on the ZZS list. So I can only assume that RIVM has taken all these aspects into account when setting standards. That is why I am sticking to the RIVM guidelines. But I would like to put this question by Mrs Kröger to the RIVM once again. Has there actually been accumulation in time taken into account when establishing the framework? That's how I interpret her question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u78	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u79	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Brenk actually had broader questions about enforcement and control of contaminated land. I'm referring to the broadcast of ZEMBLA. Some of you have asked questions about this. We had a good debate on this earlier, following the previous broadcast. As a result, I sent a letter to the Chamber in which I mentioned a number of measures that we have taken. I understand that the issues referred to in the most recent broadcast by ZEMBLA on this subject all date from before that letter. It's good to take that with you. In ZEMBLA, most of the problems with the plastic were addressed in the project Over de Maas. And it was precisely that case that led to a number of actions. You can remember that; I see Mr Laçin nodding. I refer to the tightening up of the rules on the presence of plastic waste in the soil used and dredging soil. We've just speeded up those rules. Last year I changed the rules for plastic and I introduce a permit and EIA requirement for deep puddles with the Environment Act in 2021. With practical scientific research, B-Ware is also a well-known concept for Members of Parliament, a new method is being developed for assessing pollution so that a better answer can be given to the question of whether nature and ecology actually improve. Because we all know that sometimes it can also be a earning model. So you need to know what the effects are on nature and ecology. Because it doesn't have to be at odds with each other, but you have to know. I have also indicated that I will examine the possibility of harmonising legislation with the European Member States. The ILT and RWS have recently invested in cooperation in the treatment of puddles and imports. Discussions are also being held with the Belgian Inspection Service on cooperation in cross-border ground transport. And RWS supervises deep puddles by carrying out all kinds of controls. But you also know that RWS does that risk-driven, just like the ILT. But this too is absolutely important. Mr Laçin asked on the same point: can we simply stop importing completely? He asked, "Can't there be a ban?" When preparing a project, careful consideration must always be given. In the letter of that time, I also indicated that the involvement of local residents should also be strengthened. However, the importation of land cannot be prevented if the land meets the requirements of the Soil Quality Decision. If we are okay with a certain quality of Groningen going to Limburg, we cannot say on the internal market that the same quality cannot go from Belgium to Limburg. We can therefore tighten up the general standards, and I have done so recently, but we cannot stop imports.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u80	Thanks for the answer. Now the Secretary of State says a number of things that weren't quite known to me. In that light, I'd like to ask her a question. I hear there will be a licensing obligation and an EIA obligation with the Environment Act. I intend to table a motion on this point. This is not a negotiation, let me be clear, but I could formulate that motion in such a way that it says that in the time between now and the entry into force of the Environment Act, we will stop peeing. I deliberately put that first because I know that importing land cannot be prohibited if that land complies with the Bbk. If we stop peeing until the time when the Environmental Act has entered into force and there is a licensing obligation and an EIA obligation on it, so we also need less land from abroad, then we can see if a licensing obligation and EIA obligation is really what we want. Then we can judge that better, because, as I think the Secretary of State also knows, a lot of natural scientists are now questioning the extent of nature development.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u81	That's why we're doing this practical scientific research. That takes place at a number of peeings. For those puddles, that level has also been suspended until that development has been completed. I can't see the consequences if we say across the board now that we have to stop it all. So I would not intend to do that at first, but well, then I look forward to Mr Laçin's motion. In the meantime, until the Environment Act enters into force, we have already tightened the rules. The standards for the amount of plastic that may be contained have already been tightened. These guarantees are already available to Mr Laçin. Furthermore, of course, the rules apply in the Netherlands as Mr Laçin knows them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u82	I myself have a very hard head in the introduction of the Environment Act, but that is a very different discussion, which we do not have to have here. We have now tightened the rules at the end of last year, but I also quoted yesterday's ZEMBLA broadcast two weeks ago which shows that enforcement is inadequate and that other countries have a ban on this. I wonder what the Secretary of State can say about that. So we bring in contaminated land, but not other countries. They also do not deodorize peeing, perhaps because it is not necessary there. But other countries do not import contaminated land and we do. That's what's gonna come back on that broadcast. What can the Secretary of State say about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u83	I have just explained that this is related to the rules that you set nationally to the quality of the land that can be used. The rules on the quality of the soil that can be used have just been tightened on the point of plastic. That is the example you all know. If we believe that land of a certain quality from Groningen should be used for the degradation of lakes, then we cannot refuse land from Belgium with the same quality standards. If foreign countries still have much stricter standards and they refuse domestic soil of this kind for the digestion of puddles, if they already have them, they can refuse land from abroad on the basis of the same quality standards, as we can also refuse soil which is dirtier than what we allow internally. I think that is what Mr Laçin is referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u84	This is your last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u85	So be it, Mr. Chairman. I have a second term, thank God.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u86	That sounds very threatening.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u87	No, not at all. I just have a second term, right? That's not a threat. But the answer from the Secretary of State will lead me to a new idea, on a new track, so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u88	I don't know if that was necessarily the intention, but I'm very curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u89	All right, all right, I think we're starting to find each other more and more. Should we not then investigate whether the countries around us have stricter rules than the stricter rules we now have, and whether we should perhaps adapt our rules to this in order to avoid it? Could the Secretary of State think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u90	What rules are necessary may vary greatly from one country to another. In the end, it's about exposure. It's different from country to country. For example, this has to do with how deep your groundwater is. This may mean that you have to set the standard in a very different way in order to have the same guarantee. The ground standards of country A and country B are not always easily comparable. In my opinion, it is important that we base ourselves here in the Netherlands on what RIVM advises us as advisor for the situation in the Netherlands. And the Dutch standards and rules for plastic have been tightened recently.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u91	Indeed, I had asked very specifically about the role of Rijkswaterstaat. The suggestion in the broadcast of ZEMBLA was: they are there, they drink a cup of coffee and nothing else happens. You just indicated yourself that you can't control 100%, but you started talking about health, a safe environment and so on. This is where that gets trampled on. So the question to the Secretary of State is: what was the role of Rijkswaterstaat and how can we ensure that enforcement really gets better?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u92	Let me put it this way that I share with Mrs Van Brenk that no one would want you to be able to make that suggestion at some point. But a suggestion is not always the same as reality. A suggestion can be made, but does not always mean that it is. What did we do? Rijkswaterstaat has really stepped up its cooperation in the treatment of puddles and in the import. On the basis of that earlier broadcast, I wrote you a letter with all these actions; this was one of them. Just as with all the other environmental issues that we are discussing here, it remains that we might want you to have 100% control of everything, but we can't, and we know that with each other. This risk-driven approach is also simply an efficient way of deploying people and resources. The ILT has received additional funds from the cabinet. These are used, among other things, to strengthen soil monitoring, so this is one of the points that RWS and ILT have said: we believe that more effort is needed. The ILT checks when importing whether the correct authorisation or notification has been granted. RWS controls for the national waters I see in my text 'rice waters', but we don't have that many rice fields here, so I assume that the national waters are... or reports for the application of soil in a deep lake actually meet. So there really is a close cooperation. Once again, as I have just said, cooperation with the Belgian authorities has improved, because there too, of course, some of the solution can be found.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u93	Just one more point. The Minister also made a remark that you could pour into puddles, and then perhaps be a little less critical, that is my free translation, I say just as much if that doesn't go to groundwater. My question is, how do we know that in advance?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u94	That's a very good question. That is quite a technical question to answer and therefore there is a special task force of Rijkswaterstaat, which looks at that per puddle. Then one looks at the geological isolation of such a puddle. You can't answer that question generically. You really need to look at each situation very specifically in order to be able to judge that properly. Specialists are needed to look at whether or not this is the case. It happens, yeah. Yeah, that task force was set up for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u95	Let's take a break, shall we?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u96	Last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u97	My last one. Well, here he comes. In order to link these two issues together, we have just had a wide-ranging discussion about PFAS PFAS substances are used throughout Europe and also occur in the soil throughout Europe and now just about the depletion of the puddles. Those two are of course linked, because we get dredging land in and the ILT checks the permits. My question is: to what extent is the presence of ZZS covered, and is this literally tested, is this measured?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u98	The ILT checks when importing whether the correct authorisation or notification has been granted. Since we have a framework for PFAS, including with regard to deep lakes, which sets standards on what should and should not be applied, this is also looked at. Land transports are also rejected. So I think the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u99	I asked if it would actually be measured.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u100	In the field inspections are carried out, of course, on a sample basis, all risk-driven. In the field, spot inspections shall be carried out and, if necessary, soil quality shall be verified with soil testing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u101	Mrs. Kröger? That was the answer. I understand you have no follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u102	Then there was one more question...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u103	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u104	Then there was a question from Mrs Kröger about asbestos: where do we see it in the budget? We're working on that fund. I've informed you about that. That will be further developed and you will receive an extensive letter about it. The resources for this are set out in Article 22 on environmental safety and risks. It also includes a budget for asbestos policy. There it is in the budget. Mr President, the circular economy. I always have enthusiastic debates with the Chamber on this and this week was no exception. It really speaks to the imagination when you see Mr Paternotte came up with the figures 'how much we actually throw away together'. What a waste! As a downside of the medal, this dossier has many opportunities, because if you don't waste something, you have no costs, no loss, but a chance to make a profit with sustainability. I'm proud that the Netherlands is world leader when you talk about circular. The Netherlands completely circular in 2050: an economy in which waste does not actually exist anymore. We're working hard to get there. For example, in less than three years we have reached the Raw Materials Agreement, the national-wide program Netherlands circular, the transitions and a national implementation program. I have just given a compliment to all the people in the public transport sector and I would like to do the same here. Because a lot of people, not only within the government, and then not only within IenW, but also in all departments, are working very hard on all these actions in the implementation programme. This is what we do with each other. In this context, D66 called attention to the importance of circular design. So: design it so that you can then easily disassemble it again, reuse it or recycle it. Absolutely, that is also an important part of our programme. With the CIRCO programme, I already strongly encourage SME production companies to make their own products circular and make the chain more sustainable. This is part of the circular economy implementation programme. The aim is that in 2023 about 4,000 production companies took steps in this direction. The approach in this cabinet period is really aimed at scaling up, accelerating and structuring. 4,000 production companies are therefore the target and more than 500 companies have already taken part in such a CIRCO journey. Of course, we also ensure that the lessons are properly exchanged with each other, so that there really is a knowledge platform where practical experiences and scientific developments are brought together and made easily accessible to others. Mr Ziengs had another question about deposit money on small bottles. What about bringing the decision forward? The measurements by Rijkswaterstaat of plastic bottles in the litter show a rising line. So we see that the distance to the goal we have agreed on is simply still very large. That's just what everyone sees, including the business community. In the report that the business community had prepared by EY, it became clear that one year is needed to implement deposit money on plastic bottles properly. On 26 June, industry reported in writing that an earlier decision is acceptable in view of that year that it simply needs to be implemented carefully. In the administrative consultation held on 11 September, industry confirmed this. If we're gonna do it, we're gonna have to get an orderly implementation. That is why we have brought that decision forward, so that the deposit money system can be operational by spring 2021 as agreed if the targets are not met. We're just gonna walk down that path nicely. Then there was the demand to set in motion a similar trajectory as for plastic for tin. We also discussed this in the AO Circular Economy. Rijkswaterstaat's measurement figures show that the broad approach we initially used for gaze does not lead to a downward trend. We all think that is a worrying development. I have therefore indicated that I will look at measures, including legal ones. In the meantime, the Chamber has asked me to use a similar route as for plastic for tin. I'm taking that into account, because in the end, for all of us, the goal is at the forefront. I would like to point out, however, that a new legislative process will simply be needed in order to introduce deposit funds on a look-see basis. So the idea that you're doing that quickly doesn't add up. It's pretty good with hooks and eyes on it. Mr Ziengs has also asked what the cost of such a journey is. We will simply have to map them too, so that we have all the decision-making information on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u105	The Secretary of State knows I'm very critical of that part. And that's not because I don't get any worse at looking at nature, because I do. I did that recently when there were five cans near a trash can near a grocery store. All those people who are so upset about that, walked by without throwing them in the garbage can. I am wondering where the annoyance is and where the action might then be. I would also ask the Secretary of State to include something else in those considerations. There are now stories doing the rounds, I call it "story" about sharp-in-cows. In the book Doctor Vlimmen the whole process is described in which I think a peel knife ended up in one of the stomachs of a cow. This obviously always applies here to cans, but I would like to point out that I have not seen a study that shows that it was only cans, because when I pass the roadsides, I come across wheel caps, bumper pieces and so on. If that is shredded and landed in a stomach, I think it has the same effect. It is very focused on those cans alone, but I would like to see a real story at that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u106	I am happy to include the point of focus and the question of what to do about it in that investigation and in the letter I have promised to the Chamber, as Mr Ziengs is asking here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u107	I am very pleased with that commitment. Then there is a second point that I would like to emphasise. I have also appointed the role of the VNG here in the debate. That's a special role. Written answers have also been received. They participate in Holland Schoon. They are also paid by the business community. And then, apparently, every time it comes to business, when it comes to vision objectives, as if they were not going to come up with proposals. But it is the VNG in particular who does not respond to that. I'd like to get that part straight anyway. I asked that again during the AO Circular Economy. What have they actually done in the area of trash cans and sanctions? Did they keep the deal? Did they keep it? I'm very curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u108	Mr Ziengs himself is actually giving the answer to the question. Behaviour is, of course, a very determining factor. There are also elements that municipalities can use that can contribute to good behavior. Think of the amount of fines. That behavioral element is a very decisive instrument. When we talk about litter, we also talk about more than just the bottles and the cans we're talking about right now. So it's about behavior in width. Don't be silly, just throw it in jail. Then we'll keep the living environment... that's actually literally our outdoor room... just in a very cheap way safe and clean. We're all there. We can all play a part in that. That's the kind of behavior we can expect from each other. I understand very well that Mr Ziengs raises that point. Mr President, I think those were the questions that were asked to me by Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u109	Let me see if that's the case. Otherwise, of course, there is also a second deadline. Mr Wassenberg has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u110	I'm sorry I couldn't be there all the time, Mr. Chairman, but I had a hearing that required my presence. I asked the Minister a question about balloons. The Minister forwarded that question to the Secretary of State, so I'll ask him again. The written reply states that three quarters of the municipalities do not yet have a withdrawal ban. It actually says that one quarter does, but most municipalities don't have it, and balloons can end up in other municipalities if they're embarrassed. In Nature, in March, there was a piece stating that balloons are responsible for 40% of the mortality of seabirds. This is only 5% of total waste. So these balloons are really very dangerous. They account for 5% of the litter and 40% of the deaths. That is why I said: the ban on the admission of these municipalities does not go far enough; government, now take responsibility for this and ensure a national ban on the admission of persons. There's no answer to that. It has been said that it is up to the municipalities, but no response has yet been received from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u111	Apologies. That's right. On the one hand, it is of course up to the municipalities. On the other hand, the Single-Use Plastics Directive establishes producer responsibility for balloons. Member States should also introduce awareness-raising measures to counter the use of such balloons and prohibit balloon sticks under the SUP. Of course, we are going to implement this directive properly. At the same time, I think that Mr Wassenberg, together with me, sees that a whole social movement is actually on the way. Even the Dutch associations argue that we should have a wonderful party in another way. We all know how many great opportunities there are for that. So I think the focus on this issue is in the air, I say to Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u112	The problem isn't in the balloon sticks. Again, if anything happens to that, that's fine, but it's really about the balloons that are being elated, especially that soft plastic. That ends up in the sea and that causes so much mortality among seabirds. The Single-Use Plastics directive and its producer responsibility have not helped such a seabird. That seabird dies in a horrible way. That's why I want a restraining order. That doesn't have much to do with producer responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u113	Yes, it does. A withdrawal ban really intervenes in the jurisdiction of the municipalities. The question is whether you should ban it at the end or whether you should arrange it at the beginning. Therefore, producer responsibility is also included in the SUP Directive. That is a European directive. It applies throughout Europe and must be implemented everywhere. So that's what we're going to do in the Netherlands. That includes the producer responsibility. So that is a button that we can turn on without entering into that decentralised power.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u114	I had asked a number of questions in the first period about the ban on cigarette butts, among other things. I also discussed the scale gap for rail transport as a substitute for medium distances. And I had made the point about the circular villages and the initiatives there are in that area.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u115	Of course. Cigarette butts are also covered by the SUP Directive. That is also included in the implementation. I also believe in the written reply that we are tackling it in this way and that it is not allowed to use biodegradable filters, but that producer responsibility for cigarette filters is set up. If it is correct, that has gone to the Chamber in the written reply, but I can see if there is anything to add to that in the second term. The circular villages I found a very nice initiative. I don't know if they're gonna get 100% circular right away, but I'd be happy to see how we can support that movement in those neighbourhoods with the Foreign Minister. Because there is often an enormous amount of dynamics and energy in communities to do things differently, not only on recycling, but also on common parts of tools or a neighborhood crockery; there are many options. I would be happy to look with the Minister for Foreign Affairs to see how we can support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u116	And the third point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u117	At the scale jump in the O.V. I went into the answers at the beginning, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u118	I think the signal about the circular villages is just the right thing, because there is a network of sustainable villages. Those are really people who are very enthusiastic about it. As far as the degradable cigarette butts are concerned, do I understand why the Secretary of State, with her reply, says that this type of cigarette buttocks is no longer allowed under European directives? Then my question is: if it cannot be regulated at national level, can the prohibition or enforcement of a ban be secured at international level, i.e. at the level of the European Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u119	The producer responsibility is not the same as a ban, but the sub-directive provides for producer responsibility. As far as the circular villages are concerned, I would like to remind the PvdA of the former colleague Yasemin Çegerek. She has always been very active in this area and I know that she is now working very actively on this in Heerde. So there is an enormous amount of energy on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u120	The Secretary of State says that these butts are a producer responsibility. We simply have to note that in the Netherlands 8 billion to 10 billion have been lost or hard to break buttocks in the environment. Some of them are cleaned up, but a large part of them remain lying around for years. If this is a producer responsibility, then my question to the Secretary of State is whether, possibly together with her colleagues at EU level, she wants to take enforcement action so that that producer responsibility is actually realized.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u121	One part of the producer responsibility is indeed that it can also be maintained. What exactly was said in the "sub"? Cigarette butts are covered by the sub. Producer responsibility should have been introduced in all Member States by the beginning of 2023. So that really is just a concrete deadline. The Directive and the recital indicate that the focus for tobacco filters is on replacing them with sustainable alternatives. The aim of the Directive is to combat plastics in the marine environment. The directive also covers biodegradable plastics. It takes a long time before biodegradable plastic is actually broken down. Therefore, the Directive does not allow for biodegradable plastic filters. That is what I am saying, to be very precise, but it really is also being used for sustainable alternatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u122	What about enforcement?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u123	Enforcement is also extremely important. That's a fair point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u124	I've been skittish with interruptions, and whoever keeps something has something. I said in my first term that there was a halving of the number of environmental impact assessments. In Diemen, for example, there is a biomass plant where there is no environmental impact assessment. I see there will be manure treatment in Oss that does not have an environmental impact assessment. I think this is a worrying development and I ask the Secretary of State if she can reflect on it and whether we do not need many more environmental impact assessments, because they are about the effects of planned economic development on the environment. So I think that's an important thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u125	I would almost like to say that anyone who keeps what has something. Questions about biomass plants should really be asked to EZK's colleague and questions about manure fermentation to him or to the Minister for Agriculture. But you are actually calling for attention to be paid to the importance of environmental impact assessments. Of course, I share the importance of environmental impact assessments, but I do not go into specific individual cases because I do not know exactly what Mr Wassenberg is referring to, and sometimes it is in the area of a colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u126	The Secretary of State is responsible for air quality. It seems to me that the air quality of manure plants and biomass plants could be at stake, and I think that an environmental impact assessment would be essential.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u127	Yes, but it is also good practice for colleagues responsible for a particular policy area to take responsibility for all the associated effects. The Minister is responsible for road safety because she does it for the road. I track road safety because I do track. For example, it is also regulated with these matters around air. If it is related to aviation, then the Minister takes the lead. If it is related to energy, then so is the Minister of EZK. I am, of course, in favour of the general rules on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u128	I believe that this has brought us to the end of the first-term response by the cabinet. I would like to suspend until 3.30 p.m. and then we shall proceed quickly with the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u129	We'll continue with the second term. I give the floor to Mr Van Aalst first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've got six minutes. I'm gonna do my best. The Minister simply refuses to be specific about road safety. She received, for example, an open letter to address road safety on the N36. But instead of taking action, she is going to sit back for two years, waiting for an evaluation, so she answered our written questions. As far as we are concerned, she can stop the breast-knocking because she does so much, because this minister is just talking. Mr. Chairman. Also in us the scum gets far too easy off. It became clear this week that a bastard who raped a girl on the bus in Zwolle only had to go to jail for 20 days. Twenty days! The PVV boils with anger in so much injustice. This type of equipment should not be able to take any more steps and should certainly not be able to rely on transport law. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that:]] [[a travel ban now applies only to one particular journey;]] [[therefore continue to use public transport;]] [[staff and passengers may encounter these nuisances on adjacent routes on the same day;]] [[considers that:]] [[the purpose of the travel ban should be to protect its staff and passengers from nuisances;]] [[a travel ban imposed for only one journey only moves the problem;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether travel bans imposed on public transport as a whole can be applied;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Aalst. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XII-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u131	The PVV also wants action to be taken in the case of those companies which refuse to enforce the burka ban. The law applies to everyone, so: enforce. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that:]] [[to prevent farmers from maintaining the burqa ban;]] [[This will make it possible for employees to act badly against law-absorbers;]] [[considers that this is unacceptable;]] [[calls on the government to enter into consultation with the public transport companies with a view to strengthening the enforcement of the ban on burqa,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Aalst. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XII-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u132	It is a pity that Mr Van Aalst has tabled a completely symbolic motion here. We have recently had a wide-ranging debate on maintaining the partial ban on facial clothing. I do not know if you have read the law, but it is quite clear that the Public Prosecutor and the police are the enforcers of the ban, not the public transport companies or the bus drivers who are there in the first line. It's their job to talk to people, not to maintain them. So my question is: are you going to table a bill to amend that? What exactly do you want here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u133	It is indeed a pity that Mr Paternotte probably sat in plenary sitting with the Secretary of State, who refused to answer my questions about the burka ban. It is even crazier that a motion on public transport is being adopted at a plenary session with the Interior, when we, as public transport spokesmen, were already busy with all those transport companies which are therefore having enforcement problems. Secondly, we come to the point where there are transporters who refuse to implement the burqa ban. Thirdly, there is the situation that there is a mayor in the Republic of Amsterdam who says: I do not give priority to this. I therefore believe that there is sufficient ground to table that motion now. But I'm glad Mr. Paternotte supports the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u134	No, absolutely not. There was a plenary debate here on the burqa ban, as you call it. You weren't there, and you're telling me that I wasn't in a general discussion, which wasn't about that ban at all. That's one. Two. What you are doing now is telling all those bus drivers and those receptionists in hospitals who have been given this as their task without having a minute's extra time to abandon them. You are calling for them to be allowed to maintain it, even though it is a task of the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. So I am very sorry that you are taking this step.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u135	I am very sorry that Mr Paternotte is not aware of the situation, and that his colleague Mr Van Boxtel makes different rules every time rather than upholding the law. He should not maintain the identification requirement, but maintain the burqa ban and simply evict people from the train. It's very simple and you should support it. So I am glad that you say that this is already in the law, so you can support it very well. I don't see the whole problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u136	Finally, Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u137	I'm gonna stick with a couple of actual corrections. Mr Van Boxtel is not a colleague of mine. He is director of the Dutch Railways, and the Dutch Railways are not police. I think it would be a good idea for Mr Van Aalst to look into these facts as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u138	Oh, no. I apologize. I mix it up a lot. That probably has something to do with his policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u139	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u140	Yes, Mr. Chairman, let me move on quickly. Our ears still hurt from all those retarded sustainability plans we've heard from the rulers. The whole of the Netherlands is turning into one major traffic infarct, but this minister writes a competition for CO-neutral asphalt. As far as we're concerned, that's crazy. Asphalt must be sustainable because it has to last a long time and not because it is made of hippie materials and bins with money costs. It is also too sad for words that this VVD minister continues to hit motorists hard by lowering the speeds on our motorways. The PVV is fiercely opposed to this government defense, which is why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that:]] [[the promotion of traffic flow on motorways by increasing the maximum speed;]] [[a maximum speed of 140 kilometres per hour allows drivers to operate a variable speed in order to promote flow;]] [[calls on the government to increase the speed limit on motorways to 140 kilometres per hour,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Aalst. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XII-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u141	I see that Mrs Kröger wishes to express her support, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u142	I don't know. Mrs. Kröger?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u143	I actually hear two very conflicting stories from Mr Van Aalst. On the one hand, he makes a plea to increase the speed limit and, on the other hand, he says that the Minister should speed up the reduction in the number of road deaths.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u144	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u145	Now there is a research by Rijkswaterstaat from 2018, entitled Safe about Rijkswegen 2016, which clearly indicates a correlation. A higher speed limit leads to more road deaths. Would Mr Van Aalst withdraw this motion quickly in that light?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u146	No, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u147	He wants to bring down the number of road deaths, doesn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u148	No, Mr. President, the investigations show a lot different. It's nice that Mrs. van GroenLinks is waving a report. Yesterday in the first term I also explained what reports I saw and how things were in Germany. There is an unlimited maximum speed and this has not led to more deaths on the highways. Yesterday I had a discussion on this with Mrs Van Brenn. Those road deaths fall on the underlying network. The crazy thing is, of course, that the number of road deaths in the Netherlands has increased, while the speed has been reduced. So I think Mrs Kröger has a very good argument to support this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u149	We will not be doing a very in-depth analysis of all kinds of reports here, but I think it is important that, as a Chamber, we take seriously the institutions we have to advise ourselves on policies, to find out things for us and to do research. I can see that the PVV really does so bad with all the thorough investigations, whether they are RIVM, PBL or Rijkswaterstaat. And I really don't think that's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u150	Well, this is selective shopping in reports. Gradually we know that from GroenLinks. I take all the institutions seriously, just the selective shopping... I'm sorry. We have had a whole discussion with Mrs Kröger in an AO about at least the speed. Then she already said that there was very little travel time gain. Back then, I already suggested to her that we increase that speed together to raise that travel time gain. Well, I had hoped she would express support today, but unfortunately. Mr President, I shall continue. Mr. Chairman. Pump holders must now offer the biodiesel E10. For smaller pump holders this means that Euro95 simply falls away. As a result, anyone who cannot use biodiesel in his or her vehicle is simply screwed. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that:]] [[the obligation for pump holders to offer E10 at smaller service stations leads to less supply;]] [[E10, on the contrary, leads to higher consumption and price;]] [[E10 can cause damage to certain engines;]] [[considers that the supply of the pump holder should be in line with consumer demand;]] [[calls on the Government to immediately lift E10's obligation for pump holders,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Aalst. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XII-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u151	Mr Van Aalst starts with biodiesel and he talks about E10.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u152	Yeah, sorry. The biofuel. My apologies. But we're talking about the same thing. I am counting on your support now that I have heard your speech in the first term. A lot of support today! It's special. I'm not used to it. Mr. Chairman. During this budget, the PVV also supported the rail freight sector. As the PVV has no confidence that this State Secretary will get the railroad on track, we want to relieve the rail freight sector with the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that:]] [[user fees have increased year by year;]] [[the reliability and availability of rail infrastructure is deteriorating;]] [[considers that this leads to great frustrations and economic damage;]] [[calls on the Government to freeze the user fee for rail freight until the railway infrastructure is restored,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Aalst. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XII-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u153	Mr. Chairman. Then our Dutch inland waterway transport. The PVV considers it scandalous that this sector is now being destroyed. And we have made that clear today. The Minister seems to have heard us, and that is why we expect support for the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that:]] [[small inland waterways are about to fall;]] [[The CCNR also notes that the fleet is rapidly shrinking;]] [[shippers express their concerns about the disappearance of small inland waterway transport;]] [[considers that the Netherlands cannot do without small inland waterway transport;]] [[Calls on the Government to take steps before 31 December 2019 to ensure that the profession of skipper in small inland waterway transport does not disappear,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Aalst. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XII-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Now that our motions have been served with some urgency, we have some loose ends to discuss. First of all, the conflict between the shipowners and the KNRM. The PVV asked a very simple question, namely: has this conflict been resolved by the end of this year? Instead of a clear answer, yes or no, we get a long-term bureaucratic response from this Minister. It's nice that this case is discussed, but it just needs to be cut through. We do not really want the Minister to get away with 'informing the Chamber before the end of the year'. We want this minister to have just put his fist on the table before the end of the year and to have eliminated this conflict once and for all. It can be very simple: saving the mountains and the saviors. It's as simple as that. So my final question is: is she going to do that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u155	Thank you. Mr Dijkstra of the VVD has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u156	Thank you. First of all, road safety. We've seen an increase in traffic casualties over the last two years. That's a bad development. We have the Row MONO campaign, aimed at the private drivers. It is beginning to have more and more effect, but I think that awareness can really be raised, especially among employers. I understand that about 10% of companies think it's normal for people to pick up their phones, answer and tap when they're driving. That's what you have to do when you're on the side of the road, but not when you're on the move. I would like to ask the Minister how we can teach employers or support them towards employees. Large companies, in particular, are probably already doing so, but how can we reach SMEs so that they pass it on to their people? Then let's move on to enforcement. Hopefully, the fast Audi's will be on the street soon after cops get a driving training for it. It is important that we understand the data of road accidents and that we can share them with municipalities and provinces, which really need to get the infrastructure in order if it is not yet in place, with free bike paths, obstacle-free zones and so on. Now infrastructure is still often a lockpoint. That's too bad. Mr. Chairman. Then when it comes to mobility. For the VVD, the main line is the freedom to choose when to go somewhere and how to do it. It has to be affordable for everyone. It has to have quality and you have to be able to choose for yourself. Then there are some compliments. We can invest 3 billion in roads and the same amount in other cases. Innovation really gets a place in all the modalities. We invest the euros where they have the most effect. We find a good balance between the countryside and the cities. There are solutions to this. It is also a good thing that we are working on inland waterway transport. I have never heard the Minister talk about inland waterway transport so long and in detail. It is very specific that the tachograph costs should be reduced. Mr Stoffer pointed that out too. It is also good that we can continue to do new projects, such as the A50 between Gelderland and Brabant that I mentioned. Two more important things. We have a desire to have peaks open more often. I have heard that 130 is and will remain the norm, but within the environmental limits. Finally, the cabinet should not participate in the carless Sunday. It is important for liberals that you can make your own choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u157	I was just waiting for the speed limit, which was 130 km/h which Mr Dijkstra just mentioned. He says very cleverly: we want to keep it as a VVD at 130 km/h, provided that the environment allows it. I haven't seen that word come across so often at the VVD. You know that a consequence of the problem of nitrogen, as I believe the Minister also points out, is that there are a lot of areas around which speed is reduced. Does the VVD insist that this 130 km/h is sacred and must be maintained everywhere?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u158	130 is the norm and it has always been so since the introduction in, I believe, 2011; reference was made to a letter. That was always on the condition that it could be safe and within the environmental limits. The environmental limits were very much defined as noise and emissions. With the PAS, which is also about a kind of emissions, we are not going to reduce generically, certainly not, but we are going to look in nature areas to see if there is indeed a deposition, how much it is then and whether it has any effect on the smooth running of projects. That must be really well-founded. We haven't got that far yet. I hope it can be very limited. Moreover, I believe that the impact of emissions from cars will be limited. Most emissions come from trucks and they don't drive 130.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u159	I actually wanted to ask another question, but now that Mr Dijkstra is using the word 'trucks' in the last sentence, it becomes interesting, because then the speed will indeed not have to be reduced at all. You say the trucks are responsible for the emissions. The VVD has introduced the truck tax and will ensure that there will be no trucks at all in no time, or they are electric. In that respect, therefore, you simply stick to the 130. Then I don't think it's necessary anymore. So I think you just gave the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u160	The answer I have given is that 130 is the norm in the Netherlands. Especially in nature areas we look at the deposition. If things have to be different there, it has to be, because we do want to keep the Netherlands moving. The trucks will keep driving. They are important to supply the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u161	The VVD also says that safety is paramount, because it is incredibly important, and the Minister should be encouraged to bring down the number of road victims. The VVD also makes a plea for 130. I have the following question for Mr Dijkstra. If research shows that the number of road victims on 130 roads is actually significantly higher than on roads where there is less speed, for example 120, does Mr Dijkstra intend to consider reducing speed as part of the tools to reduce the number of road victims?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u162	130 always only if it's safe. Last Monday, the Road Safety Research Foundation said that there are more accidents on motorways. That's what all the highways are about. Probably has two causes. The first is distraction in traffic, so people are doing something else. The other is the hustle and bustle there is. And finally, of course, lack of enforcement, which also means that you get away with a mobile phone at your ear from Zwolle to Vlissingen, which of course should not be the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u163	That was not an answer to my question. If research shows that there is a correlation between the 130 driving and more road victims I find that correlation in the report of the Rijkswaterstaat of October 2018 - is Mr Dijkstra willing to look at speed reduction as part of a package of measures to reduce speed and the number of road victims?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u164	If you stand still, you'll probably have no more accidents at all. 130 is the norm, but always if it is safe. That's important. If it's not safe, it won't be 130.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u165	Thank you. Mr. Ziengs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u166	Mr. Chairman. Let me start with my favorite subject: the PFAS. The Secretary of State has already indicated that she is going to organise work conferences and Mr Stoffer of the SGP has already raised some questions. Let's at least make sure it's lean and mean, easily organized, not too big. They're employers. They have all kinds of jobs to do and they'd rather do jobs than attend conferences. Moreover, I understand the good intentions of the Secretary of State. I am going to table two motions on this point and then I will hear her appreciation. Dan MaaS or Mobility as a Service. In that context, I argued for an independent party to manage the data. I thought the written answer on this was a bit thin, because in a general discussion we had on this, I even heard something about legislation in 2020. I couldn't find that out so soon, but perhaps the Secretary of State can tell me more. Then, as far as my question is concerned, the efficiency of the Dutch Railways in particular. In her reply, the Secretary of State states that we should be at the Ministry of Finance for this. That is special, where last year, I think, the PVV asked for an inquiry by the Court of Auditors. As far as the Minister of Finance is concerned, I remember saying: the Dutch Railways comply with the KPIs of the HRN concession, so there is no reason to do further research. The Secretary of State is about those KPIs, and now he says to me: you have to be with the Minister for that. It is a combination of two ministries, but perhaps the Secretary of State may still be able to respond. Then there are my motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the temporary operational framework for re-use of PFAS-based land and dredging soil results in a large number of activities being stopped at the present time, both because of the standard and because the PFAS-based land has nowhere to go;]] [[noting that the Secretary of State indicated that he would not come forward with a longer-term solution until June 2020 at the earliest;]] [[calls on the Government to set up a task force to:]] [[• the identification of projects which have fallen silent due to the problem of PFAS, including the reason why the project has fallen silent;]] [[• to make a plan of action for each of these projects with the parties concerned in order to get them back on track;]] [[• to reach, as soon as possible, a final framework of action with a workable and safe standard,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Ziengs, Mr von Martels and Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35200-XII-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u167	My second motion, which I'm about to file, I'm putting down to keep pressure on the boiler. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the standard contained in the temporary operational framework for reuse of PFAS-based land and dredging soil currently ensures that much work is stopped;]] [[Whereas, in the temporary framework of action, the limit of determination actually applies as an application standard as long as there is no specific standard of application;]] [[calls on the Government, together with interested parties, PFAS Expertise Centre and RIVM, to reach a temporary, workable and safe standard, to adapt the temporary framework of action to this, if necessary, and to inform the Court before 1 December 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ziengs and Mr von Martels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XII-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u169	Thank you. Mrs. Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u170	Mr. Chairman. Two motions and a number of questions. I'll start the motions right away. I asked questions about dirty diesel and did not really receive a response in the reply. That's why I'd like to file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas natural and human health suffers from excessive nitrogen dioxide emissions;]] [[Whereas many diesel cars emit too much nitrogen dioxide as a result of software tampering and emission testing;]] [[Whereas simple technical improvements, such as software updates, are now available for a large number of crooked models and are mandatory for a large number of models in many European countries;]] [[whereas only part of these vehicles have been called for a software update in the Netherlands and are not being maintained;]] [[calls on the government to impose and link simple technical measures, such as software updates, which reduce vehicle emissions and are mandatory in other EU countries, in the Netherlands as well,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger and Mr Van Eijs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XII-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u171	A clarifying question about this motion. The fact that it needs to be dealt with is a justified observation, but of course it starts from the source. Mrs Kröger and Mrs Van Eijs then actually place the responsibility at the disposal of the user. Are the cost of this product for the user or are we going to arrange for the producer to pay it? I'm just asking you to know where we're gonna put the extra cost of that crap.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u172	The point is, it's gonna be part of the cock you're already doing. If that involves costs, I assume that they will be recovered from the producer, because I believe that this is happening in other countries as well. But the point is that a number of things are tested and done as part of the apk and that the software update, a relatively simple operation, becomes part of the actions that are done with a cock.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u173	I am asking this question to clarify where these costs are going to be, because I do not want to have to pay more as a car owner later because of the bullshit of producers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u174	I would like to respond to that. At the moment, incredible amounts are being claimed from those producers, including the government. We have repeatedly asked what possibilities there are for the Netherlands to join in these matters. The German government is making claims to these producers, but we are also suffering from the bad air caused by that shuffle diesel. I would like us to be compensated for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u175	Just as practical, how many years are you going back?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u176	As far as I know, the shuffle diesel has been playing for a few years now and it's about the first apk for a new car. It is therefore the dirty diesel that has been found in the court cases that have been there lately.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u177	But a car from 2002 or 2008? Where do you sort of set the line?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u178	In my view, this is the shuffle diesel that was the subject of legal proceedings in 2014 and 2015. You're gonna do the first pickup on a new car after five years. The cars from before are already on. And again, it's a software update. The important thing is that you simply give the jigsaw software the update you want to have via a plug.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u179	So there are people who have a five or eight-year-old car who don't have that software update. They'll have to do that when they've been driving that car for five or eight years. There are people who don't want to. What do you say to these people? "You can't use your car anymore"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u180	No, we say it will be part of the demands that are made. So if you get your cock done, you'll also get that software update. We attach importance to the importance of clean air and the importance of combating nitrogen emissions. It saves 25% of nitrogen emissions. Someone from the VVD who is worried about what the blanket of nitrogen is doing, for example with regard to the PAS and the possibilities for farmers, should want to take advantage of all the low-hanging fruit? This is really an opportunity to reduce nitrogen emissions with a simple software update.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u181	Mr. Dijkstra, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u182	I don't think you know the years. You don't know the numbers either. And you deprive people with older diesel of the ability to keep that car. They're either gonna have to get rid of it or they're gonna have to go through the inspection. If they don't make it, that car's worthless. I think people should have a choice of their own.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u183	I do not know what Mr Dijkstra is basing it on that car could not pass an inspection. It's about cars where software has been tampered with and by a software update the scam... I was gonna say the shuemeleritis. Which makes it possible to undo this mess. So I do not understand why Mr Dijkstra does not think that everyone should just follow the rules, especially bulldozers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u184	Mrs Kröger is quite right to point out the problem that these dirty diesels emit too much NO, sometimes up to five times more than we would like and then the European lab cycle test allowed. However, I hear that these software updates aren't perfect either, and that it can happen that this saving is achieved during a lab test, but that in practice emissions are not lower, which I think is what we all want. So it can be even worse than before the update. Is Mrs Kröger satisfied that this update actually leads to less NO emissions in practice? And she can talk to you about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u185	I think it is about the fact that in Germany, where most of the dirty diesels have been found, the German RDW has said that the software update should be done. These updates are also constantly being improved, so I do not think Mrs De Pater's problems are going to play out. I'd like to rely on the German authorities to prescribe these software updates. If a software update can counteract 25% of NO emissions, it seems perfectly clear to me that you want to do so as a government. We especially care that you apply those best practices that are applied abroad, also in the Netherlands. I am sorry that we are doing so little at the moment to tackle the problem of dirty diesel. So we do not do the low-hanging fruit that is done in other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u186	I share the problem. We all want that NO emissions up, and if there's a quick fix for that,...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u187	Get down! Get down!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u188	Downstairs, excuse me. If we can find a quick fix for that, we should. But that's why it's all the more important to look at these actual practical emissions, because the motivation to do such a software update can also be very different abroad. I also heard that the first software update just took out the shuffle software. But there you have if you're actually driving nothing at all. That doesn't improve the performance. That is why I ask once again whether Mrs Kröger can show those test figures, preferably practical test figures, what she is talking about and on which she is basing her story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u189	I will gladly share those figures from the German RDW with my colleagues, but let us also put it to the Secretary of State. At the moment when other countries require a mandatory software update to reduce 25% of emissions, it is a bit odd that we, the Netherlands, should not do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u190	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u191	Mr. Chairman. There has already been a necessary change in the speed limit. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, the benefits of slower driving are high. We are talking about nature, the environment, climate, quality of life and safety, all of which we have debated over the last few days, and there are billions to be won. The Minister refers to a 2011 investigation and says: then we examined what would result in an increase in the speed limit, and that is why I am not going to investigate what a reduction would mean. I took a look at that investigation. Actually, that research is exactly what Rijkswaterstaat says that because of that 130 km/h there is a significant increase in CO emissions, nitrogen, particulate matter and noise. The research I just mentioned in 2018 shows that it causes more traffic victims. If we have to do much more for climate, nitrogen and road safety, we have to do so, because it is not going well enough yet. If this minister wants to outline the consequences of a generic reduction in speed and also what the consequences would be if we were to lower the 130 km/h in places and get a very different picture? Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Remkes Commission to reduce nitrogen emissions and deposition by reducing speed on motorways;]] [[Whereas local reductions in the maximum speed lead to further differentiation in the maximum speeds on the Dutch motorways;]] [[Whereas the generic reduction of the speed limit has different social benefits;]] [[whereas the social costs and benefits of a speed increase to 130 km/h were identified in 2011 but there have been the necessary developments since then;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the impact of different speed regimes, including a generic reduction to 100 km/h, on emissions of CO, NO and particulate matter, on noise, nature, congestion and road safety and on the material social benefits thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XII-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u192	Finally, I think we are going to talk a lot about this: the lack of permits for nature for all Dutch airports. The Minister has made it very clear that an appropriate assessment has never been made for airports. An EIA has been done, but that is really something other than an appropriate assessment. My question is very specific: who is responsible for making an appropriate assessment for airports? Whose responsibility was that? The minister is currently making it for Lelystad Airport. That suggests that the Ministry has a role to play in this. Who is responsible for seeing if an airport has all the permits required before it becomes operational? I would very much like to see those two questions answered. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u193	Thank you. Mrs De Pater-Postma has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u194	Mr. Chairman. We talked about road safety, CBR, inland waterway transport and PFAS. I have heard a number of commitments, for example on inland waterway transport. The Minister states that an inland waterway ship can be seen not only as a ship, but also as a home. She has indicated that she is going to work for better berths, which we will talk about later. We have heard from the Minister that road safety is a priority and that she is enthusiastic about digital enforcement. The CDA has put forward a proposal for the use of Rijkswaterstaat's cameras to increase the chances of traffic crashes running through a red cross. The Minister has promised to talk to her colleague from the Justice Department to see what can be done. I would like to go on about that, because I am curious as to how the Minister will enter into this discussion. There are two ways of doing that. It can be done with a slightly weak attitude with the idea: well, I have to do this so I can cross it off and I walk out again. Or it could be with a positive basic tone with the attitude: we're gonna take care of this; we're gonna see what's possible here, so we're gonna increase the chance of getting caught and that bastard behavior stops. Dear Minister, is option 1 going to be or is option 2 going to be based on a positive attitude? Mr. Chairman. The CDA has made a proposal to use the matrix boards to indicate the allowed speed. We were mainly told in the answer why we can't, but we already know that. We have also seen that in the past, in 2014, it was suddenly possible to say "100" on those matrix boards, and not just "90." That was just possible because of a software update; there we have that ICT again. We would therefore like to urge the Minister to proceed with this by means of a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that maximum speeds on motorways may depend on the time of the day, may change regularly on a single highway and have recently changed speeds along certain Natura 2000 sites sensitive to nitrogen emissions;]] [[Whereas all these different and changing maximum speeds may lead to uncertainty among road users, with possible consequences for road safety and traffic fines;]] [[Whereas matrix boards are ideally suited to indicate the maximum speed, or at busy speed of advice;]] [[calls on the Government to use matrix boards on motorways as standard as possible to indicate the correct applicable speed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members De Pater-Postma, Stoffer and Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XII-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u195	Mr. Chairman. I'm moving on to the CBR. I note that the gentlemen of the CBR have disappeared from the public gallery and have returned to Rijswijk to work hard. That's really good. We talked about the coulance regulation, about the ICT project, about the tick, about the law that now goes to the Council of State for advice. We would very much like to be kept informed of the situation, so that we can be sure that it can be carried out as soon as possible. Mr President, we also discussed how important it is for carers to have a driving licence. The Minister agreed to that, too. She has mentioned a number of things that she has already started to communicate about, but my probe is still my mailbox and the conversations I have with people who say: I didn't know this and please help me with this. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the Netherlands we make great use of carers, but that many carers do not get their driver's license renewed in time;]] [[Whereas many carers are dependent on their driving licences because they need their cars to provide care at a distance, for example by helping them drive to the hospital;]] [[whereas there is a priority procedure in the CBR for carers, but not all carers are aware of this;]] [[calls on the Government to communicate more actively the priority procedure for carers in order to inform as many carers as possible;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members De Pater-Postma and Schonis. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XII-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u196	I see my time is up, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u197	Yes. Thank you. I call Mr Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u198	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister and the Secretary of State for the pleasant debate we have had on mobility. Because mobility is an important prerequisite for millions of people going to work or school every day. At the same time, however, mobility is also important for hundreds of thousands of people who earn their living through mobility. Mr. Chairman. I'll also be on my feet: innovation. I just saw on Twitter a message from someone who was very disappointed that TU Delft's solar car was completely burnt out. A response from one of the Twitterers was: "Innovation is a continuous stream of falling and once more getting up." That, I believe, is the message we have had today. I believe in innovative aviation, I believe in innovative rail. If we take out the growth stars in this area and make them concrete, we can, as the CDA says, 'go for competitive and sustainable aviation'. The same applies to rail. We've had a lot of commitments, so I have "only" two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is broad support to make the train an excellent alternative to flying for short distances;]] [[Whereas, in order to make this attractive, it is important to make the product "train" truly more attractive for connections to important international nodes in our neighbouring countries towards northern, eastern and southern Europe;]] [[Whereas there are several innovative ways to ensure a new form of a high-speed train, such as in the form of a modern hover train via international corridors, separated from national/regional transport;]] [[calls on the Government to prepare a quick scan to identify the innovative possibilities and potential societal costs and benefits that could make a new form of a super-fast train very attractive as an alternative to a short-haul flight,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Amhaouch and Mr Schonis. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XII-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u199	Then the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in a small country such as the Netherlands, it is important that airports cooperate with each other in order to strengthen each other and create social value rather than compete unnecessarily on the same level;]] [[whereas an overall and comprehensive direction between the Dutch airports can contribute to this;]] [[whereas there are different scenarios to consider how this could be done, for example to consider whether there would be a willingness on the part of the various players to include all airports in the Royal Schiphol Group;]] [[calls on the Government to examine what cooperation scenarios, including support, would be possible to increase the direction between these airports so that they become more complementary to each other and make better use of each other's strength, and to inform the Chamber for the draft aviation note on this matter,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Amhaouch and Mr Paternotte. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XII-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u200	Mr. Chairman. Finally, I'm going to get to the track. The Secretary of State said that the customers assess the track by a 7.7. The Secretary of State was proud of that. If my kids came home with a 7.7, I'd be proud, too. If it's a 6, I'm still proud. But I'm not so proud of a 7.7, as we are as professionals among ourselves to the NS. NS is a monopolist in the Netherlands. It has advantages and disadvantages. We should appreciate that, too. A lot of things are going well, but I also want to challenge the NS. I want to prevent it from becoming a lazy monopolist with good intentions. That's what I mean by the good intentions. I think we should be sharp and perform better every year. So if the customer rating is a 7.7 today and we're heading for an 8 next year, including the costs and occupation rates, then we're even more proud.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u201	Thank you. Mrs Kröger has another question for you, Mr Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u202	In fact, it was more of an indirect answer that he might be able to give to his colleague De Pater, who just asked me if I had the figures on the scabbard diesels ready. That's this report: the second opinion of the RDW on the software update. So Mrs. De Pater doesn't have to worry: that shuffle diesel update just needs to be arranged at the apk. I hope for a positive vote from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u203	I'll take that as a heads-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u204	I think that's very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u205	I drive a diesel hybrid myself, so I also try to contribute to sustainability. My wife drives electric and I give them diesel all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u206	I'm glad we all know that now. Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, too, for the answers given to the govern ments. I tried yesterday in my introduction to outline who the government is there for and who the government should be there for. I've learned a little bit from the answer, but it didn't make me much happier. As far as I am concerned, Mrs Kröger's two supplementary questions on aviation and the little debate with the Minister on the nature permit speak volumes. The inland waterway freighters are having a hard time. That's why I'm making a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a reverse modal shift due to the disappearance of small inland waterways;]] [[Whereas the CCNR also notes this;]] [[noting that, as of 1 January 2020, the Dutch inland waterway fleet is faced with a set of requirements to be met by ships with a year of construction prior to 1976;]] [[whereas TNO concludes that almost no ship from before 1976 can meet those noise requirements;]] [[considers that the small inland waterway fleet is threatened by these requirements in its existence, while this fleet is important for freight transport in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to put in place a workable hardness clause by 1 January 2020 to preserve the diversity of the inland waterway fleet and to maintain small inland waterways,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XII-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u208	My second motion concerns transport poverty and regional transport. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas good public transport is important for many people to participate in society, and its lack can have major consequences;]] [[noting that the introduction of the Wp 2000 has led to changes in the organisation of public transport;]] [[Whereas there is currently no complete national overview of public transport accessibility;]] [[Whereas insufficient coverage of public transport can lead to regional poverty, which reduces access to jobs and important services;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with provinces, to provide a national overview of developments in public transport coverage and accessibility and to include possible transport poverty,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XII-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u209	Then I have a motion on the Lelyline. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that North Netherlands is completely dependent on Zwolle by rail;]] [[Whereas this makes the accessibility of Northern Netherlands by train uncertain;]] [[noting that the call for the Lelyline is getting stronger;]] [[believes that the Lelyline offers opportunities for housing and employment alongside better accessibility to the North of the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to take a coherent look at the opportunities for the Lelyline;]] [[calls on the Government to identify, in consultation with the regions and other interested parties, the possibilities for a feasibility study, and to inform the Court of Justice of this before the 2019 Kerstreces,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XII-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u210	Finally, a motion for a resolution on peeing. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that urinating often occurs with contaminated land from abroad;]] [[noting that natural scientists doubt the added value of natural development;]] [[Whereas other countries apply stricter rules than the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas the rules on plastic in dredging soil were tightened in 2018 but not for other materials and substances;]] [[whereas the Netherlands should not be Europe's waste pit;]] [[calls on the government to stop peeing until the adoption of the Environment Act;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the rules in other countries and to compare them with the rules in force in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin and Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XII-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u211	Just one brief comment. I hope that the Secretary of State will also take the possibilities for subsidy and not make an or story, but an en-en-story, and inform us about it, when developing the asbestos fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u212	Thank you. Mr. Schonis. Or Mr. Paternotte? Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u213	Mr President, you look surprised.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u214	We thought Mr Schonis would take the floor first. That's where it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u215	Thank you, Madam President. Many thanks to the two directors for the comprehensive answer and, of course, to all the officials who have contributed extensively there and who, I believe, have been working until the middle of the night to answer all the questions. These are special evenings, that we as MPs can go to bed and officials in the ministry still work hard. That is, of course, very much appreciated. Let's talk about the speed limit, because let's acknowledge with each other that it's just incredibly relaxed to drive 140. It's just nice if you can rip through the Netherlands at 140 km/h. I think that's safe, too. I would like to invite Mr Van Aalst to join me in the train to Meppel tomorrow morning at 7 a.m. and head towards Drenthe at 140 km/h. I believe that Mr Ziengs does so regularly. It is highly recommended. I'm going to see what a refugee is going through tomorrow in Ter Apel on the first day he arrives in the Netherlands. That, too, seems to me to be a very good experience.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u216	Mr Van Aalst feels addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u217	Oh, yeah. In any case, I can make Mr Paternotte happy that I often choose the train for the distance from Twente towards The Hague, so in that respect you will find me on your side. On weekends, I like to drive on the highway. I have just heard the good news that in Germany at least no speed limit is set, so that we can just drive through it. Perhaps in the context of all those European friends you have? It is particularly important that you take our measure here; perhaps you should talk to your colleagues in Germany sometime.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u218	Again, you can see that in this case a PVV chamber member also benefits from those open borders in Europe, from the fact that we belong to Schengen together and that you can indeed drive faster than 130 km/h in Germany. Together we are Europe. We have established that again, back to today's topic. I have four motions, including one on circular economy: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the parties concerned have not been able to agree on a reduction target for glances;]] [[noting that the packaging industry does not wish to develop a specific approach to canning in the litter;]] [[Whereas the look in the environment causes contamination, unnecessary animal suffering and the death of at least 4,000 cows every year;]] [[Whereas the government has set a reduction target of 70% to 90% for small plastic bottles in the litter waste by spring 2020 and has introduced a target of 90% separate collection in the law;]] [[calls on the Government to set similar canning targets (as in beverage packaging) for autumn 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Paternotte, Mr Van Eijs, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr von Martels, Mr Laçin, Mr Kröger, Mr Moorlag, Mr Van Brenn, Mr Stoffer, Mr Öztürk, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen and Mr Wassenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XII-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u219	Mr. Chairman. I'll follow. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that several airlines already have electric aircraft in order for short routes with a limited number of passengers;]] [[Whereas electric flies can be an important part of the sustainability of short-distance air transport where there is no rapid train traffic;]] [[Whereas small electric aircraft can offer new opportunities to regional airports;]] [[calls on the Government to include the ambition to lead electric aviation in the Aviation Note;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider whether electric and hybrid aircraft can be exempted from existing slot restrictions for a limited period of time in order to encourage innovation;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the provinces, to facilitate new airport decisions for regional airports aiming at maximum incentives and targeted support for electric flying,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Paternotte and Mr Remco Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XII-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u220	Mr President, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Eindhoven Airport was the fastest growing airport in the Netherlands in the last decade;]] [[noting that the province of Zuid-Holland intends to find a new location for the helicopter function of Rotterdam The Hague Airport;]] [[considers that a step in the right direction for the growth of these airports is desirable;]] [[Calls on the Government to aim at placing emergency services outside the operating area at Rotterdam The Hague Airport and at the same time to fully deduct the free coming sound space from the authorised sound space;]] [[In addition, the Government requests that future expansion of the number of flight movements at Eindhoven or Rotterdam The Hague's civil aviation operating space be allowed only after a reduction in noise, particulate matter emissions and, if possible, CO emissions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Paternotte and Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XII-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u221	I am very happy that D66 now also advocates not growing Rotterdam The Hague Airport and Eindhoven Airport. That was different in the past. I really hope that the conditions that D66 now lays down with regard to noise, particulate matter and, where possible, CO are also the conditions that will apply to Schiphol.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u222	I think we had the exact same conversation yesterday. Let us note, however, that I am not saying that we do not want these airports to stop growing. I say that airports need to earn their growth by reducing nuisance and nuisance for residents. On the basis of about the same principle, the Minister said before the summer: I want less interference at Schiphol Airport and then a decision on growth; first we have to believe, we have to see it first. It is also the first time that a minister here in the Netherlands has made that kind of statement and has imposed these demands. So I do think that GroenLinks can also see with us that there is a very positive trend shift and that we are seeing this for the first time in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u223	I think this kind of thing is always the devil in the detail. The issue is a little bit that when the Minister talks about less nuisance, she's just talking about sound. For the LVB 500, the LVB 2 we had a wide-ranging debate on this. There was no mention of a hard ceiling for particulate matter or CO. D66 now gives room for CO. I really hope that, if we look at the Minister's plans so directly, we will say: the CO emissions from aviation in the Netherlands should no longer grow, not at Rotterdam The Hague Airport, not at Eindhoven Airport or at Schiphol Airport, and that is why Lelystad Airport does not open.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u224	We had this conversation yesterday. We will be very keen to keep Schiphol to the promise made by the Minister. In addition, you will find me by your side. But I also think it is right that you acknowledge with me that positive developments are taking place in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u225	I hope I can find Mr Paternotte by my side too. Mr Van Geel has produced a clear opinion report on which the region has also been highly praised. Its purpose was to put some things in order first and then possible growth. We are almost already trying to get the Aeronautics Note fixed here with a pile of motions and a staple through it, while I think the Minister has made it quite clear that she will be presenting the Aeronautics Note before the end of the year. Then we can also have the debate on a number of issues that affect sustainability, whether it be nitrogen or CO, and then we can give the sector room to discuss this together. So the question to me and to others in the Chamber is: are we going to put forward motions here every time, with which we all say: leave this Aviation Note alone?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u226	I believe that you have just tabled another motion on the aviation note, which is not yet available, because, of course, a lot is happening in the meantime. I've been to both airports, Rotterdam and Eindhoven. There are growing ambitions. The province of Zuid-Holland has now said: we are possibly going to relocate that helicopter port; that could increase the operating space. That seems to me to be a topical issue. We also indicated this in the spring. If I remember your words correctly, you also said: I think it is very understandable that we should now indeed make a pass at these two airports. That is actually what we are asking here. We ask to make the pass at the place we make in Eindhoven, also in Rotterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u227	There is a difference between giving something to explore in the Aeronautical Note, so that it can give a part of the answer and say: before the Aeronautical Note comes, I want the Chamber to make a decision on something. The CDA is also concerned about Schiphol and about the inconvenience there is. It needs to be returned. We've had a lot of discussion about that. The regions of Rotterdam and Eindhoven have already expressed their views on this. They have said that they are reluctant to grow on Eindhoven and Rotterdam. One says: I want more qualitative connections. The other is indeed talking about the removal of helicopters. But let's have that discussion with all of us in the Aviation Note. Then we can slap that in the face. That's my message.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u228	I hear from the region that there is quite a lot of uncertainty. There are sounds of municipalities that say "let's be cautious," but there are other sounds as well. Until recently, for example, it was from The Hague and from the airport itself, and now the province also says: if we move that helicopter port, we will increase the operating space. That is interpreted differently, I have understood, but the transport sector was certainly very happy. He said: that's nice; then Rotterdam can grow. Then I thought: I think it would be better if we put it in place. Hence the request. I would indeed like it if it could eventually come back to the Aeronautics Note. If you read the motion in a moment, you will also see that we are asking here to strive for that pass on the spot and not to allow it to grow for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u229	Mr. Laçin, may I ask you to briefly formulate your interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u230	I must disappoint you, I think, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u231	No, we're gonna do it briefly. Otherwise, we're gonna be here too long. There is a very important other debate tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u232	Okay, I'll do my best, Mr. Chairman. I think there has already been an investigation from Rotterdam into the removal of helicopters. That's not gonna happen, because there's no room for it. I think we can close that discussion right now. I am pleased that Mr Paternotte is joining the left front by not allowing aviation to grow at least at two airports for the time being. But why doesn't Mr Paternotte, D66, give the rest to all those who live under those low-fly routes of Lelystad Airport and who will soon have to deal with a huge increase in aviation, but can he only give that peace to the people around Eindhoven and Rotterdam The Hague?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u233	We'll talk about Lelystad later. In that respect, we are still waiting for information from the cabinet. That is simply not the issue today. If you are talking about the left front, let me say that I have not now joined the front line of Mr Laçin and Mr Remco Dijkstra to increase the number of freight flights at Schiphol Airport.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u234	Mr. Laçin, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u235	I'm sorry, but what Mr Paternotte is saying here is complete nonsense. I have never talked about extending freight flights, but about maintaining the number of freight flights. That is a nuance in the nonsense that Mr Paternotte is saying here. Let's go back. This is a budget debate. We're talking about all kinds of topics. We also talked about Lelystad. D66 deliberately does not choose; I understand that very well. But the question is clear: why does D66 allow all these people to benefit from this, because of which the aviation debate has also been tilted off, but does D66 opt for the extension of nature areas with low-flying routes? Why does D66 choose to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u236	I think this is premature. I believe that you have had a critical attitude towards Lelystad, because we have said that we want the low-fly routes to end and that we want it to be an overflow airport. That is also one of the reasons why we are still waiting for information to make it clear whether it can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u237	I have two questions, but I will continue with the previous question. So I do not hear Mr Paternotte ruling out the fact that he does not give it to the residents around Lelystad. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u238	I'm sorry I didn't rule out the fact that I'm not gonna give you anything at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u239	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u240	Let's answer these hypothetical questions when we talk about Lelystad Airport.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u241	Mr. Van Raan, you had a second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u242	Then the observation remains that you do not rule it out. My second question is about 'History is more than just noise'. A motion has been adopted which contains the package containing, among other things, ultra-fine dust and CO emissions. The question to Mr Paternotte is the following. Does he really think it is justified, as a government party, D66, a climate party, to facilitate aviation and to increase CO emissions? Despite all his good intentions in the field of electric aviation, Mr Paternotte is very specific about increasing CO emissions from aviation. Does he really think that's justified, deep down in his heart?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u243	I would like to say to Mr Van Raan: give me your fear and I give you hope back. We are dealing with a cabinet that for the first time in decades has not allowed Schiphol to grow for a number of years and has chosen to do so very consciously. It then says for the future that we will only do so if there is less interference, it will set the reduction paths for fine dust and for the first time it will work out an agreement on sustainable aviation at all. You don't think it's enough, but I don't think it's enough. We'll keep pulling that together. But I also note that, for example, a research agency like CE Delft says that there is no aviation sector in the world that does more than the Dutch. So let's not pretend to be moving back here. We're moving forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u244	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u245	Eleven interruptions, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u246	Mr. Van Raan, I just walked in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u247	Thank you. Good eye, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Paternotte says, "Give me your fear, and I will give you hope." That's bullshit, of course. I will give Mr Paternotte a scientific report which states that every CO emission counts, as the IPCC says. This also applies to air transport. That's what I'm giving you, but what you're giving back is a bunch of "we're not gonna let it grow." You're in a cabinet that's designed to grow Schiphol. That's what the Minister himself said. Or are you saying the Minister didn't say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u248	I would like Mr Van Raan to remain misanthropic. He says we're not gonna do anything about it, but we're gonna introduce a flight tax. We didn't have one in the Netherlands yet. We have not for nothing sent the Minister to protect EU ETS, the European CO charging system. We have proposed that we at Schiphol Airport ensure that airport charges are partly determined on the basis of noise, which has also significantly reduced the number of polluting aircraft, and that we ban the most polluting types of aircraft. I can go on for a long time with everything we've been doing in this period. We're taking steps forward, not back. You may remain misanthropic, but really, give me the fear and we can give you hope back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u249	I like that anyway. Mr. Van Raan, this is a second term. I know that there will be extensive discussions on all these issues at many other times, so I would like to give Mr Dijkstra the opportunity to ask a question as well. Yeah? Mr. Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u250	Thank you. Back to the motion; this will be discussed later. The motion contains two things: Eindhoven and Rotterdam. I think that as a Chamber we can conclude that we want to keep those trauma and police helicopters within the fences of the current airport in Rotterdam because of their importance. If that's the case, we're a long way off. I would ask you, however, to hold this motion. Indeed, Rotterdam's application for enlargement has not yet come to us, nor has it come to the Minister, I think. Are you prepared to do so, drawing the conclusion that the helicopters should stay there? Do you mind if we discuss later, when the application comes, whether and, if so, how we're going to fill up the space?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u251	I think it is very good to give the cabinet a direction for the talks that will certainly come when the province intends to deploy that helicopter function. I can imagine very well that it would be wise to keep those trauma helicopters there. I also haven't talked to a resident around Rotterdam who doesn't understand how to facilitate those trauma helicopters there. Their fear is that the displacement of helicopters leads to a lot more holiday flights taking off from Rotterdam during the day. I guess now's just not the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u252	Then I'll draw the conclusion that we're in agreement that those helicopters should stay there. Let's go over that other part, so whether we fill that out or not, you're gonna give us a signal now, treat it as soon as the Aeronautics Note arrives or Rotterdam's application. I would ask you to hold this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u253	Okay, thank you for the suggestion, Minister Dijkstra. Of course, we'll consider it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u254	You provide quite a bit of liveliness in the second term! And you have another motion, if that's all right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u255	The variant in itself that one MP asks another MP to hold a motion is... Anyway, my final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that airports in Frankfurt, Zurich and London (Heathrow) charge emission charges based on the number of kilograms of nitrogen oxide emissions per aircraft;]] [[Whereas control of cleaner aircraft has an effect, as demonstrated at the above airports;]] [[Whereas it is the ambition of Schiphol for the period 2022-2024 to establish a new airport pricing system;]] [[points out that the principle of "the largest polluter pays the most" is desirable when determining airport charges;]] [[calls on the Government to include the introduction of this emission component in port fees at the Dutch airports in the NLR study on "environmental scores" in accordance with Heathrow, Frankfurt and Zurich and to report back the possibilities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Paternotte and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XII-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u256	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas raising children's enthusiasm for the train, bus, tram or metro will also increase the number of journeys by public transport;]] [[Whereas the aim of the Climate Agreement is to ensure the sustainability of personal mobility;]] [[noting that there are different arrangements for Dutch transporters for travelling with children in which different age categories are maintained and thus unclear about discounts;]] [[calls on the government to launch a study on free work for all children up to 12 years of age, accompanied by an adult, on Wednesday afternoons and weekends,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Moorlag, Mr Schonis, Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Van der Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XII-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u257	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas communities in villages, neighbourhoods and neighbourhoods increasingly want to make their production and consumption of food, their mobility and their consumption of raw materials sustainable in addition to cooperative energy generation;]] [[Whereas these initiatives contribute to the creation of local sustainable and circular collaborative economies and therefore deserve support;]] [[calls on the Government to explore, following on from the Natural Gas Free Districts testing ground, whether a pilot garden of circular neighbourhoods and villages can be started,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XII-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u258	Mr. Chairman. In the first term, I argued in favour of reviewing the Mobility Agenda. For one part, more thought needs to be given. We need to see if we can make the links in the rail network, so that the Netherlands is properly connected to the international HSL network. The motion tabled by Mr Amhaouch has therefore been taken from my heart. For another part, we also need to think a little bit smaller. We need to look at how infrastructure can strengthen the quality of life in the rural area and reduce the gap between town and country. I think it is very nice to talk about electric aircraft, but let us also realise that in the periphery of the country there are still trains running on diesel, which also need to be electrified. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u259	Thank you. Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u260	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister and the Secretary of State for answering all the questions. Thanks also to the administrative apparatus which undoubtedly has a lot of hours in it. I have received written answers to a number of questions. I think it's been a nice debate. Many subjects, very diverse, have passed the review. First of all, let me table a motion to touch on the subject of circular economy. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are almost three times as many tins as plastic bottles in the litter;]] [[Whereas the industry has not been able to reduce the proportion of small plastic bottles in the litter, which is now being introduced for small bottles;]] [[Whereas looking into the environment causes contamination and unnecessary animal suffering and death of at least 4,000 cows per year by "sharp-in";]] [[Whereas the government has set a reduction target of 70%-90% for small plastic bottles in the litter waste by spring 2020 and has introduced a 90% separate collection target in the law;]] [[calls on the Government to initiate the same process of canning as for small plastic bottles, including the preparation of legal measures for the introduction of deposit fees by 2022, and to periodically inform the Chamber of progress,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Van Eijs, Mr von Martels, Mr Kröger, Mr Moorlag, Mr Laçin, Mr Van Brenn and Mr Wassenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XII-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u261	Mr. Chairman. On the same subject, I have another question for the Secretary of State. Indeed, I read under the heading of recycling that recycling is not mandatory for procurement, as we do not have any purchasing obligations in the Netherlands. I can imagine that very well, but the government does know the socially responsible buying. That's what criteria have been agreed for. Now I read that something has been agreed on recycling for packaging. I think that is a very good step, but can it not also apply to the products in those packagings? Maybe I read it all wrong, but I'd say if you were buying furniture, could you agree that you'd like to have a certain percentage of recycling in that furniture? I think we're really gonna drive this circular economy. We do collect, so there is a lot of recycling, but then it has to be applied. I think the government can drive that with its purchasing power. Mr. Chairman. We would very much like'repair' to become part of the circular economy. On that subject,'repair' in good Dutch, I tabled an amendment, together with Mr Van Eijs. Then I had another question about the icon for alternative fuels, such as electric charging. I was a little freaked out. Apparently there is still a whole icon to be developed and there is now a standstill. I would like to see signs everywhere in 2022, so that motorists know where to go for alternative fuels. Is 2022 the year that the cabinet envisages? On the carless Sunday there was a very diverse response. The VVD was not very happy with it and the SGP wanted to have all Sundays without cars. I have a motion on that point, because GroenLinks and ChristenUnion think it is a good idea. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that on 22 September 2019 a car-free Sunday was organised in several European cities;]] [[Whereas a carless Sunday can contribute to awareness of alternative means of transport for the car;]] [[calls on the government to actively bring car-free Sunday to the attention of municipalities, to support participating municipalities with communication and, if necessary, to otherwise facilitate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XII-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u262	Mr. Chairman. Measuring is known, that important starting point will also be discussed in the debate tonight. I have a question about aviation. Does the Minister recognise that the Dutch emission registration obligation requires not only the emissions of up to 3,000 ft, but also the emissions above 3,000 ft? Can the Minister guarantee that RIVM is reporting this in full and that it has not failed? Mr. Chairman. That was exactly within the time frame of my contribution in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u263	Thank you. Mr Van Raan has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u264	Yesterday I used a strange construction and passed on a question to your colleague. I was wondering if there was an answer to that. It was about keeping the decision on Lelystad Airport until Remkes II spoke.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u265	The Remkes Committee is coming up with an opinion on aviation. My group considers it extremely important to look fully at this complex issue, not just agriculture and traffic, but also industry and other emissions-producing activities, including aviation. It is not very logical to take decisions on this in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u266	So, if I understand correctly, the Christian Union says: let's wait until that advice comes and we have an overall consideration of all those sectors before deciding on the opening of Lelystad Airport. Did I listen to that so well?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u267	We would very much like to take an integral look at the issue before us. That is what aviation is all about. It is precisely because of its integrity that it is important that we do not take irreversible steps now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u268	I call Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u269	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just had a little interrupting debate with the Secretary of State about who the environmental impact assessment belongs to. I thought it belonged to the Secretary of State because it's really about the impact on the environment, for example the air. I have a motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research has shown that the number of environmental impact assessments has been halved over the last 10 years;]] [[noting that under current policy dozens of major projects, such as a manure processor in Oss, an oil refinery in Pernis and a biomass plant in Diemen, could take place without an environmental impact assessment;]] [[Considers that an environmental impact assessment is of great value for identifying the adverse effects on the living environment of the planned economic developments;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the impact on the living environment of the declining number of environmental impact assessments and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the intake of balloons has a serious impact on the environment and on animals;]] [[Considering that a study in the scientific journal Nature shows that balloons are cause of death number one among seabirds and that they are responsible for 40% of deaths;]] [[noting that an opinion test carried out by EenVandaag shows that 71% of the Dutch are in favour of a ban on balloons;]] [[noting that three quarters of the Dutch municipalities still have no ban on balloons;]] [[calls on the Government to take stock of the environmental damage and bird mortality caused by balloons and to investigate the effects of a national ban on balloons,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XII-41]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XII-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u270	Then my final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in musk rat management the waterboards are obliged to spare animals all avoidable pain, tension and suffering and to consider non-lethal methods;]] [[noting that long-term Swedish research has shown that non-combatants lead to a stabilisation of the muskrat population at a low level;]] [[calls on the government to put an end to the muskrat's national eradication policy;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the waterboards to launch a new long-term field test, with the explicit consideration of preventive measures and non-actions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XII-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u271	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u272	Thank you. And then Mr Van Raan reports. You're actually asking me to be very generous, because you've been through the rest of your time. You have a budget time and how you divide it up is up to you, and your colleague, Mr Wassenberg, has just tabled three motions and thus made the two minutes remaining.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u273	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to give that to him with all my heart. We solve that internally, by internal salading.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u274	Mr Van Raan, before you take the floor, your colleague Mr Wassenberg is going to explain the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u275	Mr. Chairman. I can tell you we had three minutes left. Yesterday I even saved two more minutes, so if it's okay, the Registry knows we're in the plus for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u276	Let's do a little math on this side. I am very curious to see what Mr Van Raan is coming up with. That's not eight motions, it's one or two. Very fast reading.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u277	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for the answers we have received. I have two motions. We are also going to retable a number of motions that have been held, especially to facilitate Mr Paternotte, who would like to know how we, the Animal Party, think we should facilitate the shrinkage of aviation. I won't mention the list.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u278	The motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u279	The motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Remkes Commission will continue to advise on tackling nitrogen emissions from aviation, shipping, freight and public transport;]] [[calls on the Government not to take a decision on the opening of Lelystad Airport before an overall assessment has been made on the basis of this opinion of the Remkes Commission on tackling nitrogen emissions from aviation, shipping, freight and public transport,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XII-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u280	My final motion, Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[points out that Lelystad Airport does not currently have the status of "realised project',]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XII-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u281	Plus, we still have a couple of motions on hold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u282	Thank you. Mrs Van Brenk, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u283	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A motion on clean and safe water from two SDG6 partners. That's what we care about, you know that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the fact that laws and regulations relating to the discharge of "lightly contaminated land" in sand mining lakes in the Netherlands are less stringent than in the rest of Europe;]] [[Whereas at least 100 million cubic metres of contaminated land has been deposited in at least 60 Dutch natural lakes in the last 10 years;]] [[Whereas enforcement is inadequate;]] [[calls on the Government to take steps to tighten up legislation and regulations on the discharge of contaminated soil into lakes;]] [[calls on the Government to engage in talks with provinces, water authorities and municipalities with a view to strengthening enforcement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Brenn and Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XII-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u284	Mr President, there is a risk that the Minister will say that it is not about this, but I hope that she will then pass it on to her colleague. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Road Safety Strategy Plan aims at zero road casualties;]] [[Whereas one third of the number of road deaths did not have a belt on the victim;]] [[having regard to the fact that the fines are indexed in 2020 according to the consumer price index;]] [[Whereas the Netherlands is rapidly falling on the European ranking of road safety countries;]] [[considers that the various public road safety campaigns have had insufficient effect;]] [[calls on the government to focus on increasing the sanctioning of infringements by:]] [[substantial increase in traffic fines;]] [[the introduction of income-related fines;]] [[examining the possibility of importing a "point system',]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XII-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u285	I was not satisfied with the Minister's response to a story in the newspaper. That's why I'm gonna try pushing again. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering the important economic, environmental and military strategic opportunities of a new airport in the North Sea;]] [[noting the potential large area that could eventually be released for other activities, at the place where Schiphol is now situated;]] [[noting that an airport on a newly built island in the North Sea can also offer interesting opportunities in the field of, among other things, renewable energy with emphasis on tidal energy, tourism, military security and, of course, the protection of the Dutch coast against storm and high water;]] [[Whereas the technical, economic and geological data generated by extensive scientific research are of great value, depending on the further progress of the project;]] [[Considering that 300 billion has remained in European funds and that European funds should be very interested in co-financing new investments in infrastructure, innovation and water management;]] [[Whereas the above two considerations could greatly reduce the final net costs of the investigation;]] [[Calls on the Government to launch a comprehensive scientific study on the possibilities and feasibility of a new airport on an island in the North Sea, including the optimal use of all the aforementioned renewable energy, military security, tourism and better protection of the coast against high water;]] [[calls on the Government to use the best possible use of grants and co-financing from national and European institutions and funds in the funding of this research in order to minimise the cost to the State,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Brenn and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XII-48]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u286	We share the interest in a serious investigation into Schiphol Airport at sea, without saying that that must be exactly what I heard in the motion. And we also share that we were not happy with what we read in the paper yesterday morning. But did you also hear what the Minister said about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u287	Yeah, I heard that. But still I keep pushing on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u288	The Minister said: that was an official fingering exercise; I did not even see it. And if you want to know what I want to do with Schiphol in the sea, I refer you to what I promised in the debate last week. Then my question is: is your motion a response to what you read in the newspaper or is there another reason why you are actually proposing exactly the same thing as you proposed last week?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u289	Last time, I did not do it so extensively, because I found the remark of the SGP very interesting in the context of the tidal power plant. I liked that one very much. But I'm really worried about what's in that paper. The officials seem to be thinking in that direction. So they're not that interested at all. That's why I'm saying I'm gonna keep pushing. Mr. Chairman. I have one more question I'd like to pass on to the Secretary of State. During the debate I received a message from someone following this debate. He said: the province of Noord-Holland and Connexxion see no reason to include the UN Convention in the transport concession. I would like a response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u290	Thank you. Finally, Mr Stoffer has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u291	Mr. Chairman. Despite the fact that I have not been able to convince the Secretary of State and the Minister in all respects of what I was proposing, I felt like a Sunday child that I was allowed to do this debate yesterday and today. That's why it's a Sunday move. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in several European Member States, including neighbouring Germany, there is a Sunday ban on freight traffic;]] [[Whereas such a ban contributes to Sunday rest, including for drivers, and to environmental protection;]] [[calls on the Government to include Sunday rest as one of the objectives and indicators in transport policy;]] [[calls on the Government to take steps towards a national ban on freight traffic on Sunday,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer and Mr Van der Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XII-49]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u292	I would like to ask a very specific question. Was it about banning national freight traffic on Sunday?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u293	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u294	So you're gonna take the train, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u295	No. Trucks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u296	Okay, trucks. Then it's a little more obvious. "Travel" can of course take place in all kinds of ways. But then it's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u297	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I'm gonna suspend until 5:15, and then we're gonna listen to the cabinet's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u298	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u299	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will try to do it as short and powerfully as possible, given the time. First of all, I would like to ask the questions that had remained, then the amendments and then the motions. First of all, Mrs Van Brenn's question concerning the priority for 75-plussers who want to drive abroad. The CBR's answer is now in. People who will soon be covered by the extension scheme and who really need a driving licence abroad will be able to rely on the existing priority procedure in customer service for distressing cases if there are really serious circumstances. So the answer is yes. Then Mrs Van Brenk asked the question about the emergency button. The SWOV will carry out another study in the coming year on the framework conditions that scooters will have to meet for safe use. These conditions can also be used to tighten up requirements. In addition, the results can help municipalities to make a responsible choice of scooters provided on their behalf. So it's being re-exploited in SWOV's investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u300	Someone wants me to sit down, but we're not gonna. I have the point that SWOV has already shown this. She said that every scooter should have one of those emergency buttons on it. Following that report, the Minister then went to talk to the manufacturers. So now I'm asking when that's gonna come. And now you're saying SWOV is coming up with another report. That's not gonna make any sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u301	Well, SWOV doesn't just focus on that emergency button, of course. It is now really going to formulate the framework conditions that these scooters have to comply with. The aspect of the emergency button will I assume be part of that. I will make sure that that is the case, but SWOV will continue to work on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u302	This means that nothing has happened on this part for more than a year and that the motion that has been held is now simply put to the vote, because I am done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u303	That's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u304	Yes, Mr. Chairman, it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u305	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u306	Mr Paternotte asked about nitrogen at Schiphol. As I indicated in my letter of this week, research into the effects on nature has been carried out for Schiphol in the framework of the 2007 EIA. It was then concluded that there is no significant impact on protected species and/or areas in relation to the current Nature Protection Act 1998 and the Flora and Fauna Act. The 2007 EIA concluded that the conclusions of the 2003 investigation still apply to the 2007 EIA plan alternative. This conclusion was based on the fact that the number of aircraft movements and corresponding flight altitudes made possible by the 2008 LVB is lower than that of the 2003 MER long-term scenario. Mr Paternotte also asked whether, in 2003, not only emissions, but also nitrogen depositions were taken into account and whether everything was in line with the rules in force at the time. To this question too, I must now answer that it is part of the enforcement request that has also been submitted to the Minister of LNV. I can't anticipate that. I would have liked to clarify this part, but I can't. In the same context, Mrs Kröger raised the question of who is actually responsible for assessing whether all licences are issued. The initiator is himself responsible for having all the permits available to him. The various competent authorities are responsible for assessing the respective licence applications. You yourself mentioned the example of Lelystad Airport. That is an exception, because at some point the Ministry has taken the initiative for environmental impact assessment, but you know exactly what that is like.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u307	I realise that we cannot have an extensive debate here about the roles of an appropriate assessment, the nature permit and checking that all permits are there before a Minister of Infrastructure and Water State agrees that an airport can grow. I think it is very sensible that the Minister should put the division of roles in the various sections on this particular subject on paper and share it with our Chamber. I believe that this question is being asked by several members of the committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u308	No problem at all. In the meantime, I have seen that a whole series of questions have been asked from the Chamber. I think it is very good that we should make this clear in the reply. I'll be happy to put it on paper for you. Mr Van Aalst asked about the conflict between the KNRM and the salvage companies on the disposal of small vessels at sea. Mr Van Aalst says that he really wants a solution by the end of the year. I assure him that before the end of the year we will inform the Chamber about this. I hope we're out of it, but I can't give you that guarantee right now. But at least I will report to you before the AO Maritime.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u309	I'd like to give you a little support. I actually think that, if we are informed and they are still not out, the Minister himself should intervene. Then we should not leave it to the parties to come out together; then I think the Minister should make a decision. With that commitment, I understand that she will inform us before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u310	Mr Van Aalst put it in his first term so that it should actually be very simple: saving the saviors and mountains of the mountains. I think we can write that down very quickly. Then we all agree: both the saviors and the salvagers. But, of course, the question is: how exactly do you solve it in practice? That is, after all, just more complicated than that sentence suggests. Mr Dijkstra asked if I could support SMEs in the MONO business campaign. I would like to do as much as possible, because we started with MONO business in September, of course, and we are offering information packages. I mention the website monobusiness.nl, which really contains concrete tips for the entrepreneurs. The aim is to increase significantly the number of participating companies, especially SMEs. I'll be happy to bet on that. Mrs De Pater asked a very clear question: does the Minister want to start with a positive attitude with the colleague of justice, or does the Minister work with a shopping list that is simply ticked off, in the vein of: I have discussed it all and that is it? It was also specifically about the security cameras for enforcement. I have indeed promised you that I will do so, and I promise you that I will sit down at the table with my colleague and that I will do so with a very positive approach. I will, of course, give you a feedback link for the Road Safety Agency. Mrs Dik-Faber asked if the Minister acknowledged that all emissions should be recorded in aviation above 3,000 feet. To keep up the momentum, I would just like to refer to Mr Van Raan's motion which has been adopted on this issue. I indicated in my letter of Tuesday that I will, of course, inform your Chamber of how I intend to carry out that motion. That is what the Chamber will receive further answers to. Mr. Chairman. Those were, in my opinion, the outstanding questions. I can now continue with the amendments. The amendment in part No. Mr Laçin looked forward to strengthening the ILT with money from the Infrastructure Fund. So it's a two-stage missile. I do not recommend this amendment, because we have already made extra money available for the ILT this year. That amount is still running up in the years to come. It seems obvious that it is a reduction, but this has to do with one-off amounts which have only been incorporated into the budget later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u311	I've seen it has to do with a one-off amount. I am mainly concerned that the ILT has been cut for years. Something's coming up now, but those cuts haven't been reversed by a long time. At the same time, we can see that we are going to ask more and more of the ILT. A structural increase of EUR 5 million per year seems to me to be the minimum to allow ILT to carry out all these additional tasks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u312	Mr Laçin also knows that the Secretary of State and I have really made sure that extra money comes from the ILT, this year 10 million, next year 12 million and from 2021 even structural 15 million per year. Of course, the inspector-general of the ILT himself keeps us really informed when he sees that it is no longer possible and that it is going to clamp. That's not happening right now. Then I come to the amendment to item No. 11 by Mrs Kröger on the expiry of the 130 km programme. GroenLinks proposes that the budget line should be cancelled and that funds released should be transferred to noise recovery programmes. Mrs Kröger will not be surprised if I advise against this amendment, because I am simply sticking to the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u313	But the Minister does not think that we are going to introduce the 130 km/h on even more routes than we are now? That 130 km/h is just being reversed, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u314	Well, the resources in that budget article are used not only for speed increases, but also for research costs and the implementation of the wider speed policy. This includes, for example, the cost of marking a reduction in speed, and I think you want it. But we do need the same financial resources for this. That is why you should not want to do so, and that is why I also advise against this amendment. Otherwise, we won't have the money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u315	That is exactly why we are redeploying these funds, because then they can be used for noise or other signs, for example. It is, of course, a question of not raising the illusion, or of not giving this minister the illusion, that we are going to introduce 130 km/h on even more routes, because that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u316	I would just point out to Mrs Kröger that this budget is also needed for speed reductions. That is why I would not recommend a shift of resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u317	Can we re-label the pot?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u318	No, Mrs. Kröger. We are not going to ask for a response on every amendment and on every motion three times. The next amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u319	The last amendment in my part is Mr Paternotte's amendment to item No. 14 on electrification of aviation. I can leave the opinion on that amendment to the House. Then I'll get to the motions, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u320	The amendments which have not yet been discussed will soon be dealt with by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u321	The first motion that falls within my field of policy is the motion in part No. 17 by Mr Van Aalst. He wants to increase the speed limit to 140 km/h. On this point, too, I refer to the coalition agreement. I don't recommend that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u322	The motion in part No. 17 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u323	Then the motion to part No. 20, also by Mr Van Aalst. It calls for steps to be taken before the end of the year to ensure that the profession of skipper in small inland waterway transport does not disappear. I can give that motion my heartfelt judgment Chamber. Others have insisted on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u324	The motion in part No. 20 gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u325	Then I come to the motion on part No. 24, by Mrs Kröger. It calls on the government to examine what could be the consequences of different speed regimes. We have already discussed this at length. That has already happened in the past. I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u326	The motion in part No. 24 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u327	The motion in part No. Mrs De Pater asked the government to use the matrix boards on the highways as standard as possible to indicate the appropriate speed. I would like to ask Mrs De Pater to hold this motion because I really have to consult with Rijkswaterstaat about what can and can't be done. I would like to report to the Chamber on this, to the AO Roads and Road Safety, so that you can assess whether you think that is sufficient or whether you want to put this motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u328	Mrs. De Pater, are you prepared to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u329	I'm gonna think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u330	Then the motion gets to part No. 25 for now advise against judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u331	Then I come to the motion on part No. 26, also from Mrs. De Pater. It calls for a more active communication of the priority procedure for carers. I can give that motion my heartfelt judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u332	The motion in part No. 26 gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u333	The motion in part No. 28 Mr Amhaouch and Mr Paternotte asked the government to examine what cooperation scenarios, including support, would be possible to increase the direction between airports. I can give a ruling on that, too, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u334	The motion in part No. 28 gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u335	The motion in part No. Mr Laçin asked for a workable hardness clause on technical requirements for inland waterway transport to be drawn up before 1 January. Well, that depends a little bit. If Mr Laçin formulates that operative part as a result obligation, I must say that 1 January is a very difficult one. If I may see it as an effort, I would like to give the motion judgment Chamber. I will, of course, do my utmost to do so, but I really cannot guarantee that this will happen before 1 January. Because I need all these European colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u336	Let us then agree that we see it as an effort obligation with hopefully a very high chance of a result.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u337	That's what we're all hoping for. Then I can give that motion judgment chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u338	The motion in part No. 29 gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u339	The motion in part No. 34 Mr Paternotte and Mr Dijkstra asked the government to facilitate, in consultation with the provinces, new airport decisions for regional airports aiming at maximum incentives and targeted support for electric flights. I can give judgment to Chamber on that, also heartfeltly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u340	The motion in part No. 34 gets judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u341	Then motion 35 by Mr Paternotte and Mr Stoffer. It invites the government to strive to place emergency services outside the operating area at Rotterdam The Hague Airport and to do everything with the future expansion of flight movements at Eindhoven. I would actually like to ask the authors to hold on to that motion until we have the Aeronautics Note, because it deals with all these issues. The motion is really premature right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u342	Mr. Paternotte, are you prepared to hold this motion? I hear you saying outside the microphone that you want to think about that. Then the motion will be denied judgment for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u343	Because it's really premature, I'd advise against her. Then the motion to part No. 36 by Mr Paternotte and Mr Bruins. It invites the government to include the introduction of the emission components in port fees at the Dutch airports in the NLR study on environmental scores in accordance with Heathrow, Frankfurt and Zurich and to report to the Chamber on this. That motion I can also give judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u344	The motion in part No. 36 gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u345	Then the motion to part No. 40 by Mrs Dik-Faber on bringing the carless Sunday to the attention of municipalities and facilitating it. I have already indicated in the debate that I am not in favour of national interference with the carless Sunday, so I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u346	The motion in part No. 40 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u347	The motion in part No. 41 by Mr Wassenberg and asks the government to examine the impact on the living environment of the decline in the number of environmental impact assessments and to inform the Chamber thereof. I can tell Mr Wassenberg that there is currently an investigation into the quality of the EIA in relation to the image of the effects on the living environment. I will offer you the results before the end of this year, so I would actually ask you to hold on to this motion until you have those results, i.e. until the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u348	Are you willing to do that, Mr. Wassenberg?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u349	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u350	At the request of Mr Wassenberg, I propose his motion (35300-XII, No. 41). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u351	Mr Wassenberg also has the motion in part No. 43 submitted. It calls on the government to put an end to the national policy of the muskrat and to allow the waterboards to carry out a new field test. I don't recommend that motion. We've talked about this before. Unfortunately, we see no better way to protect our dikes than by fighting against muskrat as we are doing at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u352	The motion in part No. 43 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u353	Then I come to the motion on part No. 44. It is from Mr Van Raan's point of view and asks the government not to decide on the opening of Lelystad Airport before an overall assessment is made, etc., including shipping, freight and public transport. I'd like to advise against that motion. I have indicated that I am doing a project-specific study and that I will inform your Chamber at the end of this year about the follow-up steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u354	The motion in part No. 44 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u355	Then the motion to part No. 45, also by Mr Van Raan, on'realized project'. That is a legal judgment that politics must never express itself about. So I'm not saying anything about that. No judgment. Then the motion to part No. 47. It is Mrs Van Brenk's and calls on the government to commit itself to increasing the sanctioning of offences by substantially increasing traffic fines, introducing income-dependent fines and examining the possibility of a points system. These are actually all matters that fall under the responsibility of the JenV Ministry. I do not agree, however, with the fact that campaigns have no effect at all. They may not have quite the intended effect. All this leads me to reject this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u356	The motion in part No. 47 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u357	It doesn't say that. It says "insufficient effect." So it doesn't say they're having no effect, but they're not. The question was whether the Minister would be prepared to pass this on to her colleague. I understand she's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u358	This is kind of a big deal. Then I would like to propose that the motion be tabled to the AO Road Traffic and Road Safety Committee, in which Mr Grapperhaus himself is present, so that he can give her an opinion directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u359	I'm willing to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u360	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u361	Then the motion to part No. 48, including Mrs Van Brenk's. It invites the government to launch a comprehensive scientific study into the possibilities and feasibility of a new airport on an island in the North Sea. I would like to dissuade that motion, because we spoke in the debate just last week about how we were going to incorporate Mr Stoffer's two-stage rocket, I am a little confused, we just had a two-stage rocket, and there were three of them, or the multi-phase approach, into the Aviation Note. I thought we had made good agreements about that, and I want to stick to that. So I'm not suggesting this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u362	The motion in part No. 48 is not recommended. Before you go any further, I have one more question for Mrs Van Brenk just to be sure. Please hold the motion in part No. 47 on?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u363	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u364	At the request of Mrs Van Brenn, I propose her motion (35300-XII, No. 47). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u365	Mr. Chairman. Then I get to the last motion, in part no. 49, by Mr Stoffer and Mrs Van der Graaf. It calls on the government to take Sunday rest in transport policy as one of its objectives and indicators, and calls on the government to take steps towards a national ban on freight traffic on Sunday. This is a motion I'd like to dissuade. I would remind the House that last year, when the budget was adopted, a motion was sent to Germany to ensure that they do go there on Sundays. So that bites each other a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u366	The motion in part No. 49 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u367	Mr. Chairman. That's it for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u368	I thank the Minister. I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u369	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the motions, too. I shall then turn to a few questions and a few amendments. In the motion in part No. 15 is requested to explore the possibility of introducing a national travel ban for nuisances. In my letter of July on social security, at the request of the Chamber, I explained how the travel ban works and we have just discussed this in the AO. So it will not surprise Mr Van Aalst that I am deceiving this motion. There is, however, much to be gained in the cooperation between carriers. They can agree together and in consultation with the D.A. on the wider scope of the travel ban. I understand very well where Mr Van Aalst's concern lies, but this is actually the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u370	The motion in part No. 15 is not recommended. Mr Van Aalst.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u371	It is interesting, however, that the Secretary of State refers to a previous moment, to a letter and so on. The reason I have tabled the motion is precisely that the Secretary of State himself has caused confusion. Last time, she called for politics to be involved, while carriers say that they themselves decide whether to impose a ban on transport. Hence this motion, in order to clarify matters to the transporters. Can they now impose that ban on transport or not? The Secretary of State has just stated in his reply that this cannot be done in relation to transport law. Let's let the judge judge that, not the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u372	We've talked about this before. I also indicated in the AO at the time what could be done on the basis of the Passenger Transport Act 2000. That's exactly what I've been repeating here today. So I'm sticking to my judgment. I come to Mr Van Aalst's motion for a more stringent enforcement of the burka ban. I'm dissuading the motion. The ban has only recently been introduced. There have been agreements on enforcement. That's why I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u373	The motion in part No. 16 is not recommended. Mr Van Aalst.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u374	This is a little childish. We've had a whole discussion in the AO. That's where the Secretary of State wouldn't answer my questions. Today, a colleague needed to bring that up when he wasn't there. We have found that carriers do not know what to do with this, and we now also note that, for example, NS does not maintain. That can't be the intention. Everyone in the Netherlands must abide by the law. So I ask the Secretary of State once again to appeal to carriers to comply with that law. It is not a question of whether or not that law has just been introduced; I simply want these carriers to comply with the law and I would ask the Secretary of State to pass it on to that carrier. That's what the motion calls for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u375	The motion calls for consultation in order to strengthen the enforcement of the burka ban. Does Mr Van Aalst say: what I mean is that the law should simply be respected? When he says that, I share that with him, because that also applies, of course, to this ban. This law must also be complied with, but that is what the law is for. If Mr Van Aalst is to table a motion calling on the government to enter into consultation with the public transport companies on compliance with the ban, then I am fine with that. The O.V. sector, the police and the D.A. are already in contact with enforcement. That is, of course, a very real point. But this motion says that the consultation should be about "stricter" enforcement. We are not going to make it stricter than the law is, but the law itself simply needs to be respected. If, therefore, Mr Van Aalst says that he would like the Secretary of State to enter into consultation with the government companies on the enforcement of the burka ban, then I am happy to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u376	It's a text suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u377	The motion was meant in the sense of: the law is not being complied with now. I'll change the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u378	If you are asking only to discuss the respect of the law as it is now, I am happy to do so. That is not a problem at all, because the law simply has to be respected. But that's what the O.V. sector, the police and the D.A. are already in contact with each other about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u379	Mr. Chairman. I'm adjusting the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u380	Mr Van Aalst fits his motion in part No. 16 on. Then she gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u381	Yeah, if it's just a conversation about the implementation of the law, I can have a conversation like that, of course. Then the motion of the PVV in part No. 18, to reverse E10's obligation. I'm not gonna recommend that motion. This has been agreed in Europe. We're gonna take a careful look at the rollout. I think I made that clear, too. So I'm not suggesting this motion. The motion in part No. 19 is about freezing the user fee. That is not legally possible, so I advise against this motion. In the motion in part No. 21 asks Mr Ziengs for a task force. I have indicated that I intend to start working conferences. So I think it is important to discuss with Mr Ziengs what he means by that task force. Because I can see a logic to stay in concrete conversations with all the parties about the big overarching questions, in order to make as much speed as possible, but that is different from pulling off every project via a task force. Above all, we should not do this from a national level; we should have the working conferences for this, especially in the provinces. The text of the motion is not entirely clear to me on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u382	I understand from the Secretary of State that this is the second bullet that is currently in some pain.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u383	There's pain there and there's also a pain in the third bullet, because it seems to suggest that we should negotiate a standard. Of course, we can't do that, because we have to use science as the basis for the norm, so I'm just asking RIVM. When Mr Ziengs says 'try to reach that final framework of action as soon as possible, so that everyone knows what it is going to be final', I say: of course, but I am also, of course, dependent on RIVM. Fortunately, this temporary framework of action is there to work in the meantime.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u384	If it is indeed a matter of some textual adjustments to what some pain is in, I would like to take a look at that. But I think my message was really clear here: it needs to be restarted as soon as possible. So I'm going to breed on that text, but I think the message was pretty clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u385	I hope that I have also been very clear to Mr Zieng that my approach is also one of: let us put the parties together at the table and make sure that we also make full use of that reasonable space, which is just there. I will be happy to look at Mr Zieng's amended text and I will also let the Chamber know my opinion on it. At least this sounds like we are broadly in agreement on the same direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u386	Let me make it clear that Mr Ziengs is going to amend his motion and then the motion will get judgment Chamber? Then you're going to re-evaluate her?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u387	No, I'm gonna read her, but it sounds good, I'll just say. I'd like to see it on paper. Then I'll let the Chamber know in writing what my verdict is. If it's in line with the exchange, then I think it's gonna be a room of judgment, but it's just good to see it in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u388	But formally speaking, the motion in part No. 21 then actually dissuade it, unless it's changed, and then we'll see you again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u389	Yes, Mr Ziesgs has already indicated that he is going to amend the motion, so I think it would be theoretical. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 22 which calls for a safe standard and for rapid information to the Court. That is where I would like to ask Mr Ziengs if he wishes to continue the motion, because I am indeed committed to speeding up as quickly as possible. I will also inform you before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u390	That's the motion in part No. 22. Mr. Ziegs, are you willing to hold on to these? I'm asking if you're prepared to apprehend her. That's what the Secretary of State is asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u391	I was nodding. Apparently that wasn't clear enough. I wanted, and I say this to the Secretary of State, to keep up the momentum. We have actually indicated: try to keep us informed as a room, and if possible monthly. I'll keep these above the market. When that doesn't work, I'll file the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u392	At the request of Mr Ziengs, I propose his motion (35300-XII, No. 22), as last amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 of 19 December 1971 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to selfemployed persons and to members of their That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u393	Yeah, okay. We're gonna keep it moving and we're gonna keep the Chamber informed. Then the motion to part No. 23 by Mrs Kröger, who is asking for a link with the apk. I've asked the RDW to map out the possibilities for this. That opinion is expected to come at the end of this year, so I would ask you to hold the motion until I come to the Chamber with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u394	The motion in part No. 23. Mrs Kröger, are you prepared to hold on to this? Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u395	Then I come to the motion on part No. 27 by Mr Amhaouch on the replacement of flight by train: "calls on the government to draw up a quick scan to identify innovative opportunities and potential societal costs and benefits." I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u396	The motion in part No. 27 gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u397	The motion in part No. 30 by Mr Laçin and Mrs Kröger, I know that Mr Moorlag has drawn attention to the same problem in order to provide an overview of coverage and accessibility with the DV, including in the light of concerns about transport poverty. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. I'll start the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u398	The motion in part No. 30 gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u399	Then the motion to part No. 31 over the Lelyline. I have previously exchanged with your Chamber about the resources that are now available. As the motion has now been formulated, I advise against it. I'm not getting ahead of myself. But Mr Laçin and I know where we stand on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u400	The motion in part No. 31 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u401	We've just had an interrupting debate with the Secretary of State. I assume that the region will also put this on the table during the consultations. That's why I'm holding my motion for now and I'm looking at what I'm doing with it after the consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u402	At the request of Mr Laçin, I propose his motion (35300-XII, No. 31). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u403	Sure. In the PO MIRT we will discuss the design of the research with the regions. It's fine to hold the motion. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to the motion in part No. President. - I call Mr Laçin to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). Stopping ongoing initiatives is not possible if the appropriate permits and permissions have been given. As initiators come up with new initiatives it is up to the competent authority. So I can't carry out the motion that asks for that to stop. So I'm deceiving the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u404	The motion in part No. 32 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u405	Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 33 by Mr Paternotte and a lot of other people on the target of 70% to 90% reduction in cans and 90% recycling. The developments around look in the litter are worrying and call for an approach. I told you I'm gonna check it out. I see that this Chamber has already given its opinion by signing, so I shall leave the motion to the House's judgement. But I see that the Chamber has actually already delivered that judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u406	The motion in part No. Thirty-three gets judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u407	Yes. Then the motion to part No. 37 by Mr Moorlag. Since I can't make a commitment about other people's wallets, I have to advise against this motion. I can't say "I'm gonna make sure there's free time on Wednesdays," but I did say that I think it's a very nice idea. However, you have my undertaking that I will discuss this with the parties of the NOVB with a warm recommendation. I would like to ask Mr Moorlag if he could hold the motion until I report to the Chamber on the discussions on this matter. At least he will keep this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u408	I understand when the Secretary of State says that it is not about the wallet of the local authorities and regional carriers, but that is not the thrust of the motion either. The motion is merely a request for an investigation. I think the Secretary of State himself has a research budget. Nor does the motion go so far as to impose an obligation to produce results. That is certainly not the case. It is nothing more than an effort to map that out, in which the Secretary of State uses her soft power to see if that can be achieved, as I said in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u409	I would like to use that soft power, but I do not know, for example, whether I could just get access to all kinds of data where this goes, because sometimes it is business data too. I would therefore like to propose to Mr Moorlag that the motion be held. I'll discuss it with the parties in the NOVB. I'll send a feedback to the Chamber in my letter. Then you can always see if you think that another motion is needed to get that picture up or that this investigation might actually happen on its own. I know that you are concerned with the result, namely that this is being looked at seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u410	Are you willing to recommend the motion, Mr. Moorlag?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u411	I'm gonna go talk to the co-sponsor. I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u412	Then the motion gets dissuaded for now and we'll see. Then the motion to part No. 38
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u413	But even if I dissuade the motion, the warm recommendation remains. I just wanted to say that. In the motion in part No. Mr Moorlag asked for a study to be carried out on circular neighbourhoods. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u414	The motion in part No. 38 gets judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u415	Then the motion to part No. 39 by Mrs Dik-Faber on the twin-track approach to tin. I will not repeat all the texts I made in the previous motion on gaze. The only thing I should like to say is that the motion refers to the fact that the industry has not managed to reduce the proportion of small bottles in the litter. We must, of course, note that there was also a responsibility for the UNG and that it did not work together. It seems fair to me to note this in this motion, on which the Chamber has already delivered its opinion by signing it. Several parties ultimately have a role to play in solving this problem, and not least we all have by just throwing our shit in the garbage can. If I have to give a formal judgment, then that judgment is Chamber, but the Chamber itself has already said so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u416	The motion in part No. 39 gets judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u417	Then I come to the motion on part No. 42, about the balloons. I think that Mr Wassenberg has already responded to this. I do not think that there is a need for a new investigation into a national ban, but this too is one of those issues which must of course be on the agenda for the discussions. I am certainly going to include this in the discussions with the UNG. They have competence and they could make even better use of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u418	Just so we're clear, what's the verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u419	I'm dissuading the motion. Then the motion to part No. 46 by Mrs Van Brenk. She asks me to talk to provinces and water boards and to take steps to tighten up legislation and regulations. I think she can see that we are already doing so. So I do not see anything additional at this point, but these conversations certainly seem to me to be a useful addition. I therefore leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u420	The motion in part No. 46 gets judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u421	Then there were a few more questions asked. Mr Amhaouch mentioned an appeal to NS and the other carriers. He suggested challenging them to improve each year and draw the customer review to an 8. That is what we are going for, I would like to say to Mr Amhaouch. This is also an objective of the Future Image OV 2040, because it is extremely important that people experience high quality in the OV. We must also try to raise the bar a little more and more ourselves. Mr Van Aalst asked why data from telecom companies are no longer available to ProRail. With a first question this did not immediately ring a bell at ProRail, but if Mr Van Aalst has any further information, we would like to go after it. Mr Ziengs had a further question on the availability of data. Translink's information system is currently under review. It was completed at the end of 2019. On this basis, at the beginning of 2020, I will decide on a legal regime to make it easier and more comprehensively available. We are already working out options for this, so that no time is wasted. This also offers opportunities for MaaS providers. We will soon inform the Chamber about this. I hope that I have answered Mr Ziengs's further questions. He's still looking a little puzzled, so maybe it's an even more specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u422	I have also mentioned an independent institution, but I do not think I have really received an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u423	No, but we're doing an evaluation of the information system right now. The issue of independence is, of course, very much discussed. Sure, that point is very clear on the retina. Then Mr Ziengs asked if anyone could carry out an investigation into the efficiency of the NS. In the context of the ongoing efforts to improve further, our concession is the instrument that we have to continue to encourage the NS to further improve efficiency. That's the instrument I have in my hands. During each discussion of the concession we discuss whether the NS delivers what we want from the NS. We are now talking to the NS about the midterm review. With the next party going on the main rail network, we will also have talks about what we expect from that party. Those are the moments when we can control performance. Mr. Chairman. Mr Laçin asked whether there would also be a subsidy in the asbestos fund. I have already discussed this with the Chamber. We are moving from subsidies to funding for all. Similarly, the four and a half euro grant per square meter is not enough for many owners to finance the entire roof. With all this funding, we can do the whole thing. The approach through a fund also has broad support. Then Mrs Van Brenk asked about the UN Convention on the North Holland concession. The UN Convention applies to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u424	Before proceeding, Mr Laçin has a question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u425	The latter makes me curious. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State for broad support, among whom? Not among the people who have an asbestos roof, anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u426	Just to be very specific. What if you have a small pension and you have an asbestos roof? You can't replace your roof from that pension. Then you may not be able to do so with a subsidy of four and a half euros the square meter. With such a loan you could have the roof replaced and, for example, when you sell your house, you could only redeem that loan. Then you don't have to put it out of your monthly tight budget. It does offer opportunities, especially for people who cannot afford to replace such a roof at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u427	Mr. Laçin, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u428	Then I'll wait and see what's going on. Nor do I think it would work if we put people with a small pension for €30,000, €40,000 in debt, but I await the outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u429	If it's people whose power is in the stones, it's a solution for those people. When it comes to people who have a rental house, other people are responsible for handling that roof. This fund is developed in collaboration with the Dutch Housing Foundation, which specialises in developing concepts that should help people who would otherwise not have access to them at a normal bank. That's exactly the point. I will continue to inform Mr Laçin about this in the further development. Mrs Van Brenk asked about the UN Convention at the North Holland concession. The United Nations Convention applies to everyone. In the Netherlands there are requirements for accessibility. These are fixed in decisions and regulations, but we will also discuss this issue in the NOVB.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u430	This is from someone who is an ambassador to the UN Convention and who is himself disabled. He gets this signal back from both Connexxion and the province of Noord-Holland. I really hope the Secretary of State talks with those parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u431	That's what we're gonna do, absolutely. It is also good to hear that the debate is being followed well. Mr. Chairman. Then there was Mrs Dik-Faber's question as to whether the government could demand a percentage of recycling in products in addition to requirements for recycling in product packaging. In the Plastic Pact NL we make agreements about recycled material in products and packaging. That is also a nice case to learn from how to process it in products. Furthermore, we set NSA criteria for purchasing, so we now have recyclate packaging for all major purchasing categories. In the coming period we also want to add circular criteria for furniture. So we have started with packaging, but that is the only way we do not yet have a circular economy. I think that was also the point made by Mrs Dik-Faber. But with the Plastic Pact NL we are taking great steps forward. Then there was another question about the icons. It is true that a request for advice has been made to the CROW. As soon as that advice is available, we will inform you further. The idea was that the opinion would be there by the end of this year. So we can inform you soon, of course also about the roll-out. Of course, that too must be dealt with quickly. Those were the questions. There were also a few amendments. The first is the amendment to item No. 9 by Mr Amhaouch and Mrs Van der Graaf to give an impetus to the trains. This is certainly very important for a comfortable and productive journey from A to B. I leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber. Mr Stoffer's amendment concerns innovation and ammonia reducing technology. The subsidy scheme for the sustainability of the stables, prepared by the Minister of LNV, provides sufficient resources to do so. So I understand that he is calling for attention to be given to this, but in fact another scheme already provides for the demand for these resources. Then there was the amendment tabled by Mrs Dik-Faber and Mrs Van Eijs...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u432	Let me make it clear that you are not suggesting Mr Stoffer's amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u433	Yes, I would advise against that amendment. Apologies. The amendment tabled by Mrs Dik-Faber and Mrs Van Eijs to item No. 10 is about repair cafes. Repair definitely belongs in the circular economy. This is certainly something we want to continue to encourage, so I leave the judgment to the Chamber. This brings me to the end of the reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u434	Thank you. That's very nice. I would like to thank the two heads of government for their response to this budget debate. I would also like to thank all my colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-10.u435	I'm going to suspend briefly. We shall then continue with the debate on the problem of nitrogen.
