ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-11.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the own-initiative proposal 34650, Proposal for a law of Mr Bergkamp, Mr Van den Hul and Mr Özütok amending the General Law on equal treatment to specify the prohibition of unauthorized discrimination on grounds of sex, i.e. the Law clarifying legal status of transgender persons and intersex persons.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-11.u2	Which one of you can I give the floor first? Mrs. Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-11.u3	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank all the senators for the attention they have given to our initiative law, first because of their questions in the written debate and today during the plenary debate. We will answer the questions as best we can. Before I start replying, I would like to take this opportunity to thank a number of people who have made an important contribution to the drafting of this bill. These are Youri Rijkhoff van D66, Anjel Punte van de PvdA, Jaap van der Heijden van GroenLinks and Bureau of Legislation. Marije Graven of the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations has also helped us a lot. Finally, I would also like to thank Bastiaan Winkel. He's a D66 man. He has been with us from the start to this phase with advice and deed. Thanks to him, too. And before I forget: also thanks to the previous initiators, Keklik Yücel and Liesbeth van Tongeren. They have been mentioned before. Mr. Chairman. It is of course very nice and very nice to be here in your midst today. We have chosen to make a contribution to all three. It's a comprehensive bill and a lot of different questions have been asked. In my contribution, I will focus on the purpose of the law, the cause, the added value, and in particular the legal and technical aspects and the impact of the legislation. Mr Van den Hul will then answer the questions relating to the social added value of the bill, including in the context of the emancipation of transgender persons and intersex persons. Finally, Mr Özütok will address the questions raised about international developments, the Jogjakarta principles, the national policy paths and the added value of our initiative proposal in terms of discrimination in practice. Mr. Chairman. The General Law on Equal Treatment gives more detail to Article 1 of our Constitution as regards equal treatment and the prohibition of discrimination. That actually gives direction to our society. I am therefore pleased that all the senators in their contribution have taken into account the issue of discrimination, the fact that discrimination should not be the norm and that we should pay attention to it. I am therefore looking at Mr Schouwenaar. A number of questions have been asked about the added value of our bill. They were not so much about the fact that discrimination is wrong, but about what the added value of our bill is. Is the law the appropriate instrument? Some questions have also been asked about the legal implications. I will deal with that in my contribution. First of all, I want to pay attention to what our law is not. Then I would like to comment on what our law is. I notice in the contributions that a lot of things are sometimes added, but also that sometimes they are asked: is this it now? I'm trying to clarify in my contribution what the law isn't and what the law is. Mrs Meijer referred to research which shows that discrimination in the workplace of transgender persons is a major problem. She also indicated that violence is a problem. Our initiative law is about the General Law on Equal Treatment and not about criminal law. As proposers, we have made that demarcation with each other. It is also about other standards. The General Equal Treatment Act deals with participation in the social movement and the provision of products and services. In criminal law, of course, we are talking about the criminal law aspects. That's two different things. That is what we have chosen. It is also true that our law, of course, aims to combat discrimination in practice. My colleagues will be discussing this later. In the direction of the SGP, I'm just saying that our law doesn't mean that there wouldn't be any men's or women's competitions anymore. I would like to address the issue of sport in detail later. We also do not arrange that, for example, men's or women's clothing should no longer be sold. Our law isn't about age, nor is it about protecting the fact that you don't feel human. The great thing about this kind of debate is that you always get points of view that you may not have thought about yourself. At least these aspects are not part of our law. In addition, I am also saying towards the SGP, it is not the case that we leave the basic principles of our society and nature, namely that there are men and women, and in animal species males and females. The initiators indicate that they recognise that there is more variation in gender characteristics. Think of diversity in chromosomes, anatomy, hormones. There is also more variation when it comes to how you feel inside and how your essential inner feeling is relative to the gender you were given at birth. There is also more variation when it comes to presenting yourself: the so-called gender expression. The initiators not only say that they recognize that there is more variation. They also say they want to protect that explicitly. That's what we do for a purpose. In society, you suffer more from discrimination, exclusion and bullying when you deviate from the standard image "man or woman." Our law aims at inclusion and that everyone can participate in the social movement. As we are here and in society, we are all different. People are entitled to equal treatment regardless of gender identity, gender expression and gender characteristics. That's actually in a nutshell that our law is about. Our law isn't about sexual orientation either. During the examination in the Lower House, a motion was tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP asking the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations to investigate sexual orientation in the AWGB. At the moment there is homosexual orientation and heterosexual orientation. The question is whether you should perhaps turn that into "sexual orientation." Genderidity, gender expression and gender traits are separate from your sexual orientation. So that is not part of this legal process. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the value added. In view of the rulings of the College, the AWGB can now also be called upon if there is unjustified discrimination based on gender characteristics, gender identity and gender expression. As some of you have said, including Mrs Fiers and Mr Van Hattem and Mr Schouwenaar, the proposal is not legally necessary. We also replied in response to the Council of State. Legally, however, it is necessary and socially necessary. I will support this for you on the basis of the two concrete objectives of our initiative law. The aim of our initiative law is to increase awareness and legal certainty. Let me begin with the subject of awareness. Our goal is that we explicitly include gender characteristics, gender identity and gender expression in the law and that people about who it is, especially transgender and intersex individuals, know that the law protects them and that the law supports them. Increasing awareness is an important goal, also for the so-called standard addressees. That word refers to the suppliers of products and services. I'm talking about the owner of the sports club, the sauna, the garage company or the grocery store. It is also important that it is clear to them that the norm is that discrimination based on gender identity, gender expression and gender characteristics should not be allowed. The awareness is growing not only for the group concerned and the standard addressees, but also because people write about it, for example. Journalists write about it, articles are written about it and there is discussion. With this we hope, of course, that the awareness that everyone can be visible is increased. That is what I am saying in the direction of Mr Schouwenaar. As you can see, our initiative law is not limited to the target group and the standard addressees in terms of public awareness. The first important purpose of our law is to increase awareness. A second important objective of our initiative law is to increase legal certainty. For although cases are regularly dealt with by the Human Rights College and those cases are also admissible, this does not lead to the general principle that in all cases recourse can be made to the General Law on Equal Treatment, looking at these aspects. And that is what the initiators aim: to raise it above any doubt, so that there is no doubt about it, that you can go to the Human Rights College on the basis of sex, even when it comes to unauthorized discrimination based on gender identity, gender expression and gender traits. And when we talk about case law, there is not much case law; there are not many statements. There is a 1996 case of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, which dealt with transsexuality. The Human Rights College is not formally a legal body. So that is not formal case law; this does not lead to binding opinions or judgements, although many of the opinions are taken on board. The second objective of our law is therefore to increase the legal certainty of the people concerned, so that it is clear to everyone that you can rely on the General Law on Equal Treatment, when there is discrimination based on gender identity, gender expression and gender characteristics.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-11.u4	Just a question about these two aspects of awareness and legal certainty. In the General Law on Equal Treatment, "sex" is actually already mentioned as a big overarching word in which there should be no discrimination. Now this bill chooses three words, which are not properly explained. In this way, you're actually going to refer to the subject of "sex," but there's a chance that some other words or parts might be missed, allowing people to start thinking that it doesn't apply to them again. That's why you couldn't have just said much better: it already says, "sex"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-11.u5	Thank you for this question. This was already reflected in the CDA's interruption debate. It would not be appropriate in the legal system to use definitions in the law. I wouldn't know how to formulate a definition in the law when it comes to "sex." This also applies to "race" or "religion"; it would not be appropriate to provide definitions in the law. When it comes to gender identity and gender expression, we have done the following. We have explained the concepts in the explanatory memorandum in a footnote. And we have also given the definition of "intersex persons" and "transgender persons" in the reply. In addition, we have chosen to do so, and I shall come back to this later on when it comes to the systematic designation of not separate grounds, but to explain the concept of'sex'. It is now the case with "sex" and also in the AWGB that this was mainly about the distinction between unequal treatment between women and men. The explication of us is: we say that this unauthorized distinction can also be made on the basis of how you feel inside, your gender identity, how you assume it, and also on the basis of your gender characteristics. So we have not included definitions, which would not be appropriate either, but we have clarified the explanatory statement and also the response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-11.u6	Yes. In the reply, the applicants replied to the same question. Of course, it wasn't just put by me, but by superiors, that's how I seem to remember. It also states that, somewhere in a footnote, what is understood by the concepts is stated. In practice, this means that you want to settle something, whereby the ordinary citizen must seek equal treatment under the General Law, then go through the history of law, look for the explanatory memorandum and look in the footnotes for whether the situation applies to him or her, or to him or her. In other words, why hide so far away, when it is explicitly included in the law, "sex"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-11.u7	There is an assumption that the terms "genderid entity," "gender expression" and "sex characteristics" would not be clear enough. We know that judges in other matters of family law or right of asylum can certainly ignore these concepts. This also applies to the College of Human Rights and to the interest groups. And the purpose of our law is, of course, to increase awareness. And again, incorporating definitions into a law would not be appropriate in the legal system. The explanatory memorandum is also part of the legal process, which has already been exchanged in the debate on network services. And yes, an important goal is, of course, to increase that awareness. Mr. Chairman. I explained that the purpose of our law is to increase awareness and legal certainty. I would also like to say to Mr Schouwenaar that we have indeed chosen to explain this. In doing so, we may give judges less room in this area, but not in the application of law. I'll deal with that later. But looking at the problems that exist in society, and yet looking at the fact that we do not think that legal certainty is properly regulated at the moment, we have chosen to make this explicit in the law. Because why are we doing this? If you don't fit into the standard picture, you're subject to discrimination. A number of examples have already been mentioned, for example by the Party for Animals. There was the example of a clothing store in Amsterdam, where you are looked out of the store because you would supposedly be at the wrong clothing rack. But there are also those who do not get a job because they would not be sufficiently feminine. That is why it is important that it is clear to everyone that the law upholds the law. We also exchanged this in the Second Chamber debate. I think that's an important goal. I thought Mrs Vink put it nicely: fundamental rights apply to everyone, so I also say this in the direction of Mr Van Hattem regardless of anyone's religion. But honestly, we're not alone in that either. We do this as initiators, inspired when we are to regulate this from the point of view of equal treatment, but also the Human Rights College has said before that we should settle this. We also have the support of this Minister and the former Minister for the Interior. The Council of Europe's Commissioner for Human Rights, up to and including the Economic and Social Council, have also asked for this. Mrs Özütok will discuss this in greater detail. So the purpose of the law is to increase the awareness and increase legal certainty, because we see because there is a problem in society with discrimination if you do not meet the standard picture of man or woman. Mr. Chairman. I would like to comment on the design of this law, because there have been quite a few questions about it. Among other things, Mr Lintmeijer, Mr Van Hattem and Mr Schouwenaar referred to the development of the discrimination ground'sex'. Does this fit into the legal system? We just had an interruption about that. I would just like to point out that what we have chosen is not at all so different from that legal system. For example, as early as 2005 an explicitation was found in a part of the law, which has also been passed, which is also subject to "sex" pregnancy. That is explained in the same General Law equal treatment, just as we explicate "gender identity," "gender expression" and "sexual traits." Looking at the objectives we are pursuing, we therefore believe that the solution we have chosen fits within the legal system, and indeed also within the international laws and regulations. And explication is of course sometimes also nice. This has just been discussed in an interruption: of course everyone is expected to know the law. Of course, some help is not bad at all, and that is why it is so much more explicit. And especially when we see that, and I think that too, it is very important that people often do not claim their rights. We can see that, and my colleagues will be discussing this later in the debate that there is a great deal of discrimination and exclusion, but people often do not go to the College of Human Rights, and certainly not to the courts. So there's a weird contradiction in that. We hope, of course, that by increasing awareness, people will find their way. And we hope, of course, that people's behaviour will change, which means that there is no discrimination at all. After all, you must also have your goals high, so I say. A question has been asked by the VVD about the word "partly": why is that word in it? By the way, the word "part" is in it twice. This was chosen because if the first new paragraph, in which we say that gender identity, gender expression and gender traits are understood as well, would not be the word 'part', it would seem as if direct distinction is only linked to these three aspects. However passionate we are to bring these three aspects to the fore, it would go too far to say that it is only about that. Hence the word "needle." Among them is the member who deals with pregnancy and motherhood. It has been asked whether the initiators expect other concepts to emerge, in addition to gender identity, gender expression and gender characteristics. We can't rule that out, but we can't fill that out now either. So there are two reasons why we have entered the word "partly." It would otherwise be some kind of exhaustive list, which would be weird. Secondly, I would like to assume that this is not the last amendment to the General Law on equal treatment, and that it will also allow for developments in case law, case law and legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-11.u8	Thank you for your explanation so far. I don't know if what I'm gonna ask is gonna come, so I'm gonna take a bit of a gamble by putting in a question right now. Not only here, but very generally, legislation does not provide for everything. We don't want to close everything either. When we do that, there are always enough people who blame us, and rightly so. There must be room for the judiciary to put something under one or the other heading in unforeseen cases. You have explained a great deal, but I am still left with my question. In this situation, you do it the other way around. You are talking about the system of the law, but the system of the law usually also means leaving a certain interpretation space for the judge. Under this law, you do exactly the opposite. I wonder what's so different about the problem. There is a problem, and that requires a solution. We ask ourselves that here every time, because that is what we are being raised to be. But why, in contrast to other issues that are also important, has this particular issue been chosen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-11.u9	Thank you for this question. It's not the only explication in the law. First of all, let me explain this again. It has been chosen to specify that sex includes pregnancy. Why did they do that? Because in practice they saw problems: women were discriminated against when they were pregnant. So a social problem was seen and it was said, with the agreement of the Council of State and both Chambers, that it is important to make it more explicit, so that everyone knows that discrimination based on pregnancy, which therefore falls within the scope of sex, is not possible. We are now applying the same reasoning. We see a social problem, namely that people are frequently discriminated against and excluded on the basis of their gender identity, gender expression and gender characteristics. That is why we have chosen to make that more explicit and to increase that awareness. This in the hope that people themselves will find a better way to the Human Rights College or the judge and that they will feel strengthened by the law protecting them. And also to promote that people can be visible themselves. And, of course, there is the other objective: to make the so-called "standard addressees' aware that discrimination cannot be based on these three aspects. We have chosen that reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-11.u10	A quick question. Pregnancy, which of course is something completely different, was indeed not mentioned in that first article at all. Now we're talking about gender traits and stuff. That is a consequence of the word "sex." That is a substantial difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-11.u11	To be honest, I do not see this as a substantial difference, because in the case of legal treatment, it is implied that pregnancy, as part of gender, is included. Thus pregnancy is indeed linked to the ground "sex." That is why we have opted for the same legal system. We'll find them to fit. We ourselves were a little surprised at the opinion of the Council of State, because the Council of State did not have any comments on this at the time of the examination of that law. Mr. Chairman. I'm moving on. I think I have explained this subject sufficiently, at least I hope so. Then we move on to the definition of the grounds. I shall be a little short on that, because we have also exchanged a little bit about it in the debate on the interruption. Again, it is not appropriate for definitions to be incorporated into laws, but we do think it is important to provide a bit of clarity. That is why we have taken this into account in the explanatory memorandum and the response. It is also important that we do not introduce new terms. In the right of asylum or family law, terms such as "gender identity," "gender expression" and "sexual characteristics" are already used. An important goal is to increase awareness. We assume that the so-called interest groups such as the COC, the Dutch Network Intersex/DSD and the Transgender Network Netherlands will pay sufficient attention to this issue and make it known to their supporters, so that hopefully they will be able to recognise themselves better in it after next week's vote. It is also mentioned that, when it comes to anti-discrimination provisions, they have offered to actively engage in information activities. All this in the context of increasing that awareness. Then sex and gender. Mr Schalk also explained this. For law enforcement, it might be good to know what one thing and what the other is. Sex or gender is about biological characteristics. We are talking about the so-called primary and secondary sexual characteristics. The primary sexual characteristics are already known at birth. The secondary characteristics are later known. Then we're talking about body hair and breast development. Gender is a set of standards and stereotyping linked to a gender. In addition, how one feels within oneself is essential in relation to the sex given at birth and the corresponding standards. But also how to get out: what is male and what is feminine? In addition, Mr Schalk asked if it is problematic if you do not feel yourself a husband or wife or either. Of course, that's up to the people themselves. It's hard to say you can't find that. But we do see that in practice, when it comes to their own acceptance, the acceptance by the environment and then the acceptance at the workplace, people experience many bumps and many barriers. This is also apparent from the investigation of the SCP. At a time when people do not fall by default in the box "man" or "woman," they experience more problems. One of the objectives of the law is that people can be visible themselves. Mr Schalk spoke of 'apart from it, in between it and it was 'against it'. These were our own words 'and about 'I do not feel human'. I have already indicated in my introduction that "no feeling human" is outside our law. We have indicated "in addition, in between, opposite" to indicate the variation. Once again, we do not abandon the basic starting point of man or woman....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We have just said that there is more variation when it comes to gender characteristics, gender identity and gender expression. That is what we meant by 'in addition, between or opposite'. Then there's the "Ratelband affair"; the age aspect. I did look at the pronunciation with particular interest. I was wondering what would come out of it. The moment you start working on the Awgb as proposers, you are also curious how such an issue is addressed. In Mr Ratelband's case, the court ruled that law and case law do not allow for recognition of a feeling of a different age. That is the judge's ruling that we, as initiators, cannot and would not like to add anything to. That's the judge's ruling. This is different from the fact that the College and judges have indicated that gender identity, gender expression and gender characteristics should be explicitly protected. That in response to the story from the SGP when it comes to Mr Ratelband and the age issue. I'm gonna wait, because I see someone getting up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-11.u12	Two points, Madam President. First of all, it wasn't my words.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-11.u13	Shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-11.u14	Very briefly, yes. They were the words of the Prophets: something besides them, between them or across them. There is the following principle: that the concept of sex should be considered as a continuum within which everyone, woman/man, and something in addition, between or opposite. So you're saying there should be something else? That was my first question. Then there is the second point. I have also quoted Mr Ratelband's example because of course I found it very interesting what the judge would actually think of it. I have said the following. If it's his experience, the judge can find something different about it, but we're talking about the perception of people around their gender today. That experience doesn't have to be continuous. So any minute now, that's gonna go either way. That was part of my question, too. I hope you will come back to that in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-11.u15	Thank you for this question. We have indeed indicated that there may be, in addition, between and opposite. I have also explained what our interpretation is, namely that there is more variation on the basis of gender characteristics, as I have heard in a number of contributions, for example when it comes to chromosomes, anatomy and hormones. I also mention gender identity, so people who feel different from the sex given at birth. I also call gender expression: how masculine or how feminine are you? In all these cases, you see more variation. Then your question about the continuum. I heard the word brittle in your question. For a lot of transgender and intersex people, it's a profound feeling inside and it's not something that today is sister and tomorrow is like that again. People who go to the College of Human Rights, they are few people who do not deal lightly with it. It's a huge step to go to that college. I agree with Mr Schalk that there will always be a small group of people who may exchange in them. And who are we to find out? Of course, it is also the starting point of our law that people must be able to be visible themselves. During the preparation of this law, we have talked to a lot of people who do not see it as fragile, as something that can differ per day, but as something that is an essential characteristic of their being.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-11.u16	I hope you have tasted in my contribution that it is not a question of giving people something fragile. I am concerned, however, that the element of experience that is not my word but that of the proposers is a fragile element, because it can change, change. At the moment that there are consequences of this theme, such as changing your passport, it may be a small group, but it may be that people have a different experience later. And then you keep going back and forth a little bit. Again, I'm not trying to ridicule it here. I'm trying to take it as seriously as I can, and I'm gonna ask you to. We're talking about discrimination. No one should discriminate. As soon as you hear me discriminate, I'd love to hear it. I am trying to make it clear that the element of experience is difficult to measure and subjective.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-11.u17	On the question of how much you can objectify things and how the college deals with them, for example, I will come back later. With your press mission, Mr President, I would first like to mention that word 'brittle'. In my speech, I clearly state that it is an essential part of who they are for many people, a characteristic of his. Whether you can be yourself, whether you come out of the closet or to whom you say it, are choices, but feeling who you are is not something that fluctuates a day for a lot of people, but is something that they are and what they carry with them every day. So I'm gonna go into the question of how to objectify that. I think that is a fair question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-11.u18	I'd like to interrupt for a moment. I hope we'll be ready by 6.30 p.m. with the first term of the three of you and the Minister. So when you say "before," I think, "help, it's getting really late." So I'm assuming you'll all be done with your first term at 6:30.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-11.u19	That's what we're gonna do, Mr. Chairman. Who am I to contradict you in that? I would then like to say a few words about the system of the AWGB and in particular about the fact that you are not allowed to make a direct distinction, unless there are exceptions in the law. Direct distinction means, of course, that you are treated differently in a similar situation. There are a number of possibilities in the law, so-called objective justifications, which allow you to distinguish. The AWGB is in fact also about that sometimes you can make a distinction, for example when the gender is decisive and it is about the protected safety of women. That was also worked out in a decision. It's about sports, by the way. I would also like to mention Article 5 (3) in the case of a relevant professional requirement. For example, if a casting agency is looking for someone for the role of Prince Bernhard, it may cast a man. So there are indeed possibilities to select and to make that distinction. Furthermore, I refer to Article 2 (3) which deals with people in privileged positions, i.e. the preferred policy. That's okay, too. If there aren't enough people at the top of your university, you get to choose more women. So these are possibilities that the law indicates. Indirect distinction should not, in principle, be allowed, unless you can objectively justify it by a neutral purpose and the means does not go beyond what is strictly necessary and appropriate. Well, then the judge or the college will take a look at that balance. The contribution of the SGP also addressed associations. Sports is of course also an association. What's allowed and what's not allowed, that's what was asked. The decision explains what can and should not be done. An association is, of course, also covered by the scope of equal treatment legislation. Only, you also have the right of association, namely, look at the membership requirements that you may also make a distinction. Of course, that should not go beyond your objective. It's gotta be locked up somewhere. So you can't just say, "I don't want a woman or a man." It must be connected to the goal of your association. Questions about sports have also been asked. At the moment, it is quite a subject with a lot of attention and a lot in the media. In sport, fair play is of course a very important subject, starting point, namely that the competition is fair, that physical strength and physique must be comparable, and that difference in muscle strength and technique are created by intensive training and not, for example, by prohibited substances. It leads to a distinction between women and men at a professional level. Internationally we see, not only in the past but still, that this does not always cover the load. Look at 1950; the Frisian athlete Foekje Dillema was on her way to an international athletic tournament and was taken off the train, and she said: they don't think I'm a girl. It was a terrible event for her, and she was disappointed. However, in 2019 you can see that this issue is still alive, when it comes to the athlete Caster Semenya. There will be another statement from the International Athletics Federation. So it is not up to us to fill that out, but I would like to mention this in order to point out that the debate on sport, in the past and now, is still very topical. As far as Article 2 (2) (a) is concerned, I have just indicated that sex can be decisive, including in sport. So it's possible you can have a women's and men's competition. When it comes to amateur sport, there has also been a statement from the college about it. It is important to try to be as inclusive as possible. There's no way you're saying I don't want transgenders and I don't want intersex characters. The lecture will then look very closely at it and will also examine what you have done yourself in terms of effort. I come to a few last, smaller topics. How does the college reach a verdict? It is important to note that in these situations it is always customised. It is not an exact science and the context is always looked at. If a person considers that there is an unlawful distinction, it is important that a person has to state facts in law. Somebody's got to be able to objectify that. If the college then says that the case is admissible, then the other party or the counterparty will have to indicate that it is not and must objectify it. Eventually, the college comes to a verdict. So people really don't go to college lightly. I say this in order to indicate that the objectification of both parties is indeed being requested. I hope that I have answered Mr Schalk's questions sufficiently on this point. We've talked about the experience. I don't think about that anymore. We have just had a nice debate on this. Some questions have also been asked about religions and race. Does this mean you're gonna have to explicate everything? I do not know; that is outside the scope of our initiative law. It could be. The AWGB is a very lively law and our proposal will not be the last. And how is that dealt with? Yes, that will have to follow the same democratic process as we have followed. There must be a social problem and then you start a democratic process. Whether that leads to other explications is, I think, not us. Some questions have also been asked about the passages of this law. The AWGB is a framework law. There will therefore be an impact on the underlying legislation. During the examination in the Lower House, the Minister of the Interior clearly stated that she sees no reason to follow another reasoning in criminal law relating to sex. In other words, she sees no room for an a contrario reasoning. That is a statement from the Minister who we wholeheartedly support. Mr President, you just gave me the extra push to go through all the questions a little faster, for which I am grateful. I hope that I have been able to answer all the questions relating to the legal part and the objective. I would very much like to give the floor to Mrs Van den Hul for her term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-11.u20	I was afraid you'd say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-11.u21	It goes through the chairman, of course!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-11.u22	That's right! That's right. I've been waiting for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-11.u23	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-11.u24	But thank you, Mrs Bergkamp. I am happy to give the floor to Mrs Van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-11.u25	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is a great honour and a great pleasure to be here today for the first time in your midst in this beautiful room. Mr. Chairman. As has already been pointed out by my co-initiator, I would like to include you in the social added value of our legislative proposal. I would like to focus, among other things, on the questions asked about the emancipation of transgender persons and intersex persons. Among other things, I am looking in the direction of Mrs Vink and Mr Schouwenaar and Mr Lintmeijer. I will also refer to the questions that have been raised about registration, including by Mr Schalk, and to the willingness to report. Mr. Chairman. We state in our own initiative law that knowledge and understanding, partly as a result of our law, will lead to greater acceptance and standardisation. On which basis we then base ourselves, asked Mr Kuiper among others. We have already said a few things about this in the written reply. The initiators first of all base their beliefs on studies based on a functional approach to explaining certain attitudes, such as an experience function or a socio-adaptive function. Studies on the attitude towards homosexuality, for example, show that having homosexual friends, acquaintances or family is related to a more positive attitude towards homosexuality. Other studies, for example on attitudes of young people towards certain countries, show that attitudes are linked to experience and knowledge. In short, we base ourselves on the science behind the well-known proverb "unknown makes unloved." On top of that, the initiators aim to ensure that this law and equal treatment, regardless of one's gender characteristics, gender identity or gender expression, will live in the minds and, above all, in the hearts of people. It is our ambition that people should address each other; in more formal terminology this is called the social legal aspects of the AWGB. Mrs Vink also referred to this in her contribution, by quoting the expressive function of legislation. It is our wish that people and organisations should act with common sense as a starting point, that service providers should think about the approach of people and that employers should think along with their employees so that people can really be themselves. Because in a society where people can be themselves, talents are better developed and better exploited. Our legislative proposal does not cause any more confusion, but rather indicates what we need to understand under "discrimination based on sex," in line with the current state of the case law. We make this explicit in order to eliminate all doubts, both with the target group and with the standard addressees. We do that because it turns out that the target group does enjoy protection, but does not or does not always claim protection. We do that because research shows that there is a social problem for a large group. The initiators represent the legal protection of this group and we ask you to do the same. Mr. Chairman. On what basis do we base ourselves when we say that people do not go to a College of Human Rights because of uncertainty in the AWGB? Is reporting readiness really the problem? Among others, Mr Van Hattem and Mr Schalk referred to the willingness to report. For example, in the SCP study Becoming who you are, it has already been mentioned before, from 2012 we see that 42% of the interviewed transgender persons in the year preceding the investigation have had a negative reaction to their identity. Unfortunately, the investigation also concludes that the vast majority of those who have experienced discrimination have not complained or filed a complaint. Mrs Fiers and Mrs Meijer also referred to this in their contribution. Other studies also show that almost one in three transgender persons does not indicate how or where to report. This demonstrates once again the importance of increasing awareness and legal certainty for the target group itself, to which my predecessor referred. Mr. Chairman. Is a law or is the best solution, for example, requested by Mr Schouwenaar, especially when it comes to a "limited change" of the General Equal Treatment Act. Is this the most appropriate means of communication to increase this awareness of the scope of this law? Isn't it better to look at a public campaign? We agree that careful consideration should be given to whether legislation is the right instrument to combat discrimination against transgender persons and intersex persons. We are also aware that, for example, a public campaign could improve the level of discrimination against transgenders and intersex individuals. Like Mrs Vink, therefore, we look forward to the Minister's reply on this point. However, the initiators expect a longer-term effect of a clarification of the law. We base this expectation, among other things, on the results of the legal sociological research that has been added to the Evaluation Study AWGB, Equal Treatment: principles and practices. This includes the effectiveness of the AWGB. We agree with the authors of this evaluation report that the effectiveness of legislation is an ongoing and evaluating process of communication between, on the one hand, the members of the interpreting community that the law creates, consisting of, among others, judges, directors and scientists, and, on the other hand, the aforementioned standard addressees and members of the target group. These effects on people's thinking and speaking should eventually lead to real change in their behaviour. In addition, the choice of legislation gives substance to the opinion of, inter alia, the College of Human Rights and the Council of Europe's Commissioner for Human Rights. Finally, the initiators are also pleased that the national association against discrimination has been known since the beginning of this year as "Discrimination.nl" (the "Discriminatie.nl") (the "Discriminatie.nl") (the "Discriminatie.nl") ("Discriminatie.nl") (the "Discriminatie.nl") (the "Discriminatie.nl") (the "Discriminatie.nl") (the "Discriminatie.nl") (the "Discriminatie.nl") (the "Discriminatie.nl") (the "Discriminatie.nl") (the "Discriminatie.nl") (the "Discriminatie"). The initiators can also imagine that standard addressees through their own organisations are directly approached about this anti-discrimination legislation. Building on this, Mrs Vink, Mrs Fiers, Mrs Meijer and Mr Lintmeijer and Mr Schouwenaar asked how we, as initiators, want to further support the wider emancipation movement. In the written reply we pointed out that we are well aware that only a change in the law is not enough to effectively combat discrimination in practice, and I say to Mr Van Hattem, whoever is doing that, in the direction of Mr Van Hattem. The additional measures announced by the government to improve the position of transgender persons and intersex persons are indispensable. This bill fits into the wider framework of measures, but I would like to refer your questions to the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Meijer raised the question of how we look at the registration of sex in the passport. She referred to the possibility of registering an X in the passport and wondered why it was actually necessary to include information about the sex at all and how we think about it. I would like to point out that the proposal for an initiative that we are debating today is not about what possibilities there should be for registering the sex in the passport. The general law on equal treatment does not ensure that this is done, and it is precisely that law that we intend to clarify. In response to Mrs Meijer's question about the omission of gender marking or the registration of an X in the passport, we are the initiators of restraint. Like you, we are looking forward to the Minister's response to this point, I say through the President. Mr. Chairman. The registration of one's gender can also be used for matters of interest, such as research. Among other things, Mr Schalk referred to this. I mention the pay gap, the position on the labour market, the provision of care and other things. This is very topical in this week, in which we are also discussing International Women's Day. Can we do this later? The following applies. The conduct of research, whether scientific or population research, is not covered by the AWGB. The AWGB only supervises industrial relations and the provision of goods and services. But doing research is not a service. It could only be different if a research firm refuses to conduct research for, for example, an organisation for reasons of discrimination. But further research is carried out both by the government itself and by private research agencies outside the AWGB, including the registration of one's gender for the purpose of that research into, for example, the pay gap or the position on the labour market. How you then register or determine that sex is already the question. Are you assuming the legal sex or self-identification? That's not gonna get any more complicated with our legislative amendment. It may only be that transgender persons or intersex persons, because of the awareness of their rights, are asking more than they are now about the need for gender registration and opportunities of, for example, an X. But again, they do not have the right, on the basis of the AWGB, to demand that the sex is absent in research results or that there is a registration as X. That's it, Madam President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-11.u26	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Hul. I give the floor to Mrs Özütok.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-11.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Finally, as has already been pointed out by my co-initiator, I will speak on and answer the questions related to international developments and national policy paths. I look, among other things, at Mrs Vink and Mr Lintmeijer. I also take you into account the discrimination experienced in practice by transgender persons and intersex persons, to which Mrs Fiers referred. In conclusion, I will briefly consider the medical treatment of intersex children, to which Mrs Fiers and Mr Lintmeijer both referred. Mr. Chairman. Mr Schalk also referred in his speech to the debate on gender characteristics, gender identity and gender expression in the light of his beliefs. The discussion about a position vis-à-vis transgender persons and intersex persons has been demonstrated by the discussion about the Nashville Declaration. That Nashville statement also made a positive contribution, because its aftermath showed that the vast majority of the congregations did not feel at all touched by the message in that statement. The government also pointed out in its reply to parliamentary questions the dialogue that is taking place within many churches to give lhbti individuals a place within the church. Like the cabinet, the initiators welcome this development. Mr. Chairman. Questions have been asked about direct and indirect gender discrimination and examples of this distinction have been asked for for transgender persons or intersex persons. Direct distinction is when someone is treated differently because of personal characteristics or properties. When a person is treated differently only because he or she is a transgender person, there is a direct distinction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-11.u28	I'm sorry, I'm a little late, but I'll come back to the subject that Mrs Özütok has named around my beliefs. I have indicated that it is my belief that God has created man and woman. That was the line. You then referred to the Nashville Declaration. I think you, like me, have followed that discussion with extraordinary interest. The line is, I think, that within church societies is chosen for a biblical line, but if it's okay with a pastoral tone. I would really like to mention this when it comes to the debate on, for example, the Nashville Declaration. To put it a little more clearly, I can say the following. We must indicate on the website of the First Chamber what we are all in. In any case, I am a member of a network group on homosexuality, and at the moment on gender, social security and sexual diversity. My observation is that, in recent years, there has been a great deal of good and clear attention within the churches to the position of people who have thought and speak about this issue, or rather, about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-11.u29	Mr. Schalk, was that your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-11.u30	I would like to point out that my intention has been to indicate, from my beliefs, how I believe the biblical line is. I would like to ask Mrs Özütok whether she has also noticed, let me put it this way, that, for example, there has been a great deal of attention in Christian education over the years to precisely this issue, or the theme, which we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-11.u31	Thank you for your explanation. That there are discussions about it and that there are different views, I see as very positive. Mr. Chairman. If it's okay, I'd like to continue my contribution. As initiators, as we have already pointed out, we are reluctant to come up with a fictional case of indirect discrimination, because this may be too directing towards our judiciary. According to the AWGB, there is no indirect distinction if that distinction is objectively justified by a legitimate purpose and the means of achieving that objective are appropriate and necessary, as described in Article 2 (1) of the AWGB. However, in order to be able to include you in this, there are indeed examples of judgments of the college in which there was indirect discrimination. The case I will describe concerns indirect discrimination against a transman. It was a person who had successfully completed a PhD in political science and received a certificate for that purpose. At that time, however, he was still registered as a woman and had a different first name. The university refused to issue a new certificate. The university used as a rule that a certificate is issued only once. Under no circumstances is an exception to this rule. The College considered that the university did not make a direct distinction on the basis of sex by applying this rule. This rule applies to everyone. At the same time, the College considered that by applying this rule, the university had made indirect distinctions against the applicant on the basis of sex. After all, the use of this rule affects transgender persons particularly. By allowing them no exception to this rule, they are unable to allow the gender change in their personal and business life to work completely. Non-transgender persons do not have this disadvantage. On this basis, the College concluded that the university made indirect gender-based distinctions against the transman by refusing to issue him a new certificate with its current first names. The College also found no objective justification for the distinction, so indirect distinction is not allowed. For the gourmets: this is about judgment 2010/175. Mr Schalk referred to the Jogjakarta principles. These were drawn up in November 2006 by the International Committee of Lawyers, including at the request of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. In fact, in these principles, all existing and legally valid human rights have been translated into people with different sexual orientation and gender identity. In addition, the principles also made recommendations by the authors on how national governments and other actors can anchor the principles in their regulations and policies. As has already been said, this is not a document with a binding status. The principles therefore do not apply as a treaty text. At the same time, the principles in different international bodies and in the caselaw are regularly cited in order to give substance to certain fundamental rights for lhbti'ers. In 2008, the House of Representatives ruled by means of a motion that discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity should be vigorously combated and that the Jogjakarta principles are a good guide in this respect. The initiators like to stick to this ruling of the House of Representatives and have therefore referred to these principles several times in their argumentation. Because, as the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights was able to say so beautifully, referring to the principles: 'Exclusion of transgender persons and intersex persons from equal protection is a violation of international human rights and our common standard of humanity'. Mr Lintmeijer specifically asked whether the explicitation, such as our initiative law, which actually complies with international standards, looking at the international recommendation of, for example, the Council of Europe's Human Rights Commissioner in April 2015, which stated that gender features should be included in equal treatment legislation, or that the ground "sex" should be expanded in equal treatment legislation in order to include gender features. The second is exactly what we are doing with our own initiative law. Looking at the ILGA Rainbow Index, to which Mr Lintmeijer referred, we note that an adaptation of the AWGB, as we advocated by our law, would lead to a positive appreciation of some of the criteria that are still being valued as negative. Then there is the issue of social problems, the group size and the examples. How large is the group of transgenders and intersex subjects? The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau estimated that around 85,000 intersex individuals lived in the Netherlands in 2014. It is estimated from the same planning agency that more than 48,000 transgender persons lived in 2012. Mrs Fiers and Mrs Meijer referred to this in their contribution. This is a significant group. Added together, it is a city the size of Zoetermeer. Then there are the declarations, complaints and reports. In the case of anti-discrimination provisions in the Netherlands, the number of reports of discrimination based on sex increased from 403 in 2016 to 477 in 2017. That's an increase of almost 20%. In more than one in every ten cases, there is discrimination against transgender persons. Police also report that the discrimination incidents increased in 2017 on the basis of sex. In three of the four recorded incidents in 2017, the victim was either a transgender person or was considered as such. The Human Rights College received 16 complaints in 2017. Numbers can sometimes be abstract and anonymous, but let it be borne in mind that behind every report there is a human story. I'd like to make this a little more tangible. Mrs Fiers, Mrs Meijer and Mrs Vink did the same in their contribution. Because what is this unequal treatment that people run into? A selection of some reports received in 2017. For example, a reporter from the other participants in a sports tournament was not allowed to wear a skirt and a transgender woman was consistently addressed by a member of a youth care institution as a sir, as the father of her children. A reporter was also told that his employer would resign if the transition was continued. Another detector was fired because women's clothes were worn. You can hardly imagine it, but we're talking about labour law dismissal, just for who you are. So there is a real problem, as Mr Schouwenaar said. Mrs Fiers and Mr Koffeman discussed intersex operations in their contributions. We do agree with them that an intersex condition is not a medical problem, but a natural fact. They asked us how we look at medical intervention in minor intersex subjects. Here's what I'm gonna do. In the Netherlands, since 2006, the directive among medical professionals has been providing them with complete information by those treating intersex subjects. Children and young people are informed in stages in specialised medical centres, so that the information also fits in with the development of the child or younger person. That is what the initiators think is right. However, a number of intersex subjects have indicated that they are still not getting good information about their condition and treatment. The amount of information provided by doctors seems to differ considerably between the different medical centres. This may be due to the degree to which centres specialise in the condition in question, but indications where more information can be obtained may also be omitted. In 2016, the UN Committee on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women also expressed concern that in the Netherlands medically irreversible sex operations and other treatments are carried out on children with an intersex body. Mr Lintmeijer also referred to this. When preparing the bill, we noticed that there has been little research into sex operations involving intersex children and that little is known about this. The UN Committee on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women recommended that the Netherlands develop and introduce a Health Protocol for intersex children. Fundamental rights should be the starting point. Such a protocol should ensure that intersex children and their parents are properly informed about all possible interventions. Intersex children should be involved as much as possible in decisions on medical interventions. The choices made by children should lead in this direction. We can support this as initiators. The question of whether the Health Council should be consulted, I would like to continue in the direction of the Minister, because we are the initiators of this. With Mrs Meijer and Mr Koffeman we note that the growing waiting list for transgender persons is worrying.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-11.u32	Mr. Chairman. An interruption on this point. Mrs Özütok talks about surgery and not necessarily medical treatment in children. The explanatory memorandum also gave a detailed account of this. What answer does this legislative amendment offer specifically on that point? I didn't get that out. I do not think there is any link to the amendment of the AWGB in this respect either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-11.u33	I understand the question. There are more questions that are relevant in that context, but our law is not about that. This concerns non-discrimination between intersex and transgender persons. I want to leave it at that. I think your question is of a more medical nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-11.u34	However, this argument was raised as an important argument in the explanatory memorandum. It has just been mentioned in the debate, as one of the reasons for adopting this law here. However, I do not see any added value of this law for this group of children. I don't give a damn. Then why is this argument so strongly expressed in the explanatory statement and in the debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-11.u35	I think you are referring to the answer to a question that was asked there. We have not included this in the explanatory memorandum to the law. Our law is about non-discrimination.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-11.u36	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-11.u37	Yes, chairman, finally. However, in the explanatory memorandum, I have read a whole introduction in which the need for this law is discussed in detail. It indicates that this is also necessary because of the non-needed medical operations in children. So I ask again, what does this law offer these children? Then why is this argument being put forward when this law is not going to make any difference at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-11.u38	That description is included in order to show a number of problems in this area as well. But our law is really about non-discrimination. Mr. Chairman. I'll continue my contribution. With Mrs Meijer and Mr Koffeman we note that the growing waiting lists for transgender treatment are worrying. Unfortunately, this law will not change that. However, the present legislative amendment is a support to indicate to the people in this target group that we do not dismiss their desire to be fully or partially recognised in the opposite sex, as a fashion grill or as a phenomenon that will blow over again, or as something that we can also deny. Like homosexuality, transsexuality has always been there and there will always be people born who are not biologically unambiguous men or women. With our law, we indicate that these people belong as well as anyone else. Moreover, we would like to hear the Government's answers to Mrs Meijer's and Mr Koffeman's questions. Mr. Chairman. Finally, we also see a major role for people among themselves. Previously, reference was made to the social and legal aspect of our law. There is such a thing as "self-enforcement" and "social enforcement" in laws. Thank God, I'd like to say. Of course, college and inspections play a major role, but let us not forget ourselves. It is my belief that we are going to address each other, but certainly also ourselves, so that everyone in the Netherlands hopefully understands that the distinction based on gender characteristics, gender identity and gender expression is not allowed. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-11.u39	Thank you, Mrs Özütok. I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-11.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As you said yourself, I am taking part in this debate on behalf of the cabinet. I do so as an advisor, because it is about an initiative proposal, with which I would like to congratulate the initiators. I hope that's appropriate in this place, too. The initiators brought this proposal here. That means they've come a long way. They and their support have had to make a great deal of effort in this regard. I think that is worth a compliment. As has just been said, the proposal for an own-initiative act specifies the prohibition already laid down in the Equal Treatment Act. The government is in favour of this explication because it believes that it sends a clear signal that discrimination based on gender identity, gender expression and gender characteristics is prohibited. It already is, but it must now be read in the ban on discrimination on grounds of sex. The proposed addition of an Article member to Article 1 AWGB clarifies that this form of discrimination is prohibited. This can help to improve the knowledge of the rights of the protected group. National and international research shows that both intersex persons and transgender persons are often confronted with negative stereotyping, with exclusion, with bullying, with discrimination. And this also shows that it has just been said that they do not report this very much. The government assumes that this clarification will contribute to raising awareness among those to whom the AWGB addresses, namely that discrimination against these groups is prohibited. The change in the law can also contribute to broader social awareness that the gender concept is fluid and covers more than just male and female, and to the concept for it. It can also contribute to the discussion of the views that reflect the wide variety that exists in practice. Explicitly prohibiting discrimination against transgender and intersex persons sends out the signal that in the Netherlands these forms of discrimination are not tolerated and that transgender and intersex persons are protected by the government. I agree with the sentiment expressed by Mr Vink, Mr Lintmeijer and Mr Fiers, among others, that a change of law alone is not enough. It is, however, a good step, as the initiators have also expressed in the explanatory memorandum. The cabinet is therefore also using other means to combat discrimination against these persons and to improve their situation. This has been mentioned, among other things, in the Emancipation Note 2018-2021, by my colleague from OCW, and the National Action Programme against Discrimination. The latter dates back to 2016. Some of your Members asked whether a major awareness campaign was foreseen. That is not the case, but of course we are working on it. The Ministry of Education provides grants to organisations working on this, such as the COC, the Transgender Network Netherlands and the Dutch organisation for gender diversity. These organisations will bring the legislative change to the attention of their supporters, but also to the wider public and to the organisations targeted by the law. So employers, service providers, educational institutions will be informed about this. Complementary to this commitment, promoting the social acceptance of transgender persons and intersex persons is an integral part of the emancipation policy of the Minister of OCW. And, as I said, this minister is working closely with these organisations. She sends a progress report on emancipation to the Lower House in mid-March. Mr Van Hattem asked about improving the possibility of reporting. In this context, I would like to point out that my colleagues from JenV and OCW will be presenting an action plan on safety lhbti, also on the basis of the Sjoerdsma/Van den Hul motion adopted in the Lower House. This action plan will be sent to the House of Representatives before 1 April. All this fits in with the promotion of the freedom to be visible yourself, something that the coalition has also included in the coalition agreement and that is also one of the fundamental values of the Netherlands. And I am glad that I can add here to the debate the positive basic attitude of the cabinet on this proposal. Mr. Chairman. There are a number of questions I would like to answer. Some of them have also just been addressed in the responses of the initiators. First of all, I come to the question of subjective feelings. Mr Schalk mentioned this. His question was: can legislation be based on subjective feelings? I can agree with what Mrs Bergkamp has just said about this. It's not just about feelings, it's actually about deep-seated feelings, and it's also about an inner conviction behind them. And such beliefs can indeed be legally relevant. That's the way it is with faith. I do not need to explain this to Mr Schalk, because he has shown this in an otherwise beautiful and respectful way. So, as far as I'm concerned, it's relevant, also in the legal sense. He also asked why we would approach gender identity differently from other elements in the General Equal Treatment Act. Here too, I can agree with what was said by the initiators. This is necessary because, in practice, there is a need for clarification, namely that the grounds for discrimination "sex" do not just mean "man" or "woman." In the examples put forward by Mr Schalk himself, he mentioned belief, and I believe that he also mentioned race, we do not see the same degree of social attention and we do not see the same degree of social discussion that led to a need for such specification in the case of gender identity. But this is a social necessity which I believe is very much present. Mr. Chairman. A number of speakers have asked whether this has a wider effect and what else we should do. Mr Lintmeijer, for example, asked whether this legislative amendment was sufficient or whether other laws and regulations needed to be adapted. Because there is no legal need and because there is no risk for an a-contrario reasoning, the cabinet has no plans to further adapt legislation. First of all, the effect of the General Law on equal treatment in legal practice, as the proposers also foresee, can be shaped in this way. Secondly, the case law, on the basis of which gender identity, gender expression or gender traits are already covered by gender, will in any case continue to apply to other legislation, which includes the discrimination ground "sex'. I really want to stress that, as far as the cabinet is concerned, there is no room for an a-contrario reasoning on the basis of this proposal, so that the ground sex in other legislation would suddenly no longer include gender identity, gender expression and gender traits. Mr Lintmeijer also asked whether the cabinet could still make an effort to adapt the EU Equal Treatment Directive, which has been under negotiation for some time, to include gender identity and gender expression. First of all, I am working to get the final piece of EU legislation on discrimination, the Directive on equal treatment outside work, which has been under negotiation since 2008. But that requires unanimity. The subject is very sensitive in a number of Member States. But this directive is not about the discrimination ground'sex'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-11.u41	I am a little slow, so I would like to go back to what you said in response to Mr Van Hattem's questions. I refer in particular to the Ministry of Justice's action plan. You say that this will be handed over to the House of Representatives before 1 April. Could the First Chamber get a copy of that, too? Would you agree to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-11.u42	I will of course convey that wish to the colleagues of JenV and OCW, yes. Mr Schouwenaar wondered whether the government should continue to work in other ways. He calls it criminal law and labour law. But my reasoning is that the adaptation of the General Law on Equal Treatment is an important step. I have just argued that there is no a-contrario reasoning possible. If there is a need for more to be done along the lines of this law, you should never rule it out, but there is no intention of doing so. A number of questions were about gender registration. For example, the SP asked what the cabinet would think of a proposal to completely abolish gender marking in the passport.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-11.u43	However, I would like to return to this point: when I said the words 'criminal law and labour law', I meant not primarily an extension of the rules, but simply an increased use of the legal possibilities that exist. For all kinds of other crimes, too, there is an incentive to be reported, which I could imagine here. In the field of labour law, many examples can be found of greater use being made of existing opportunities. That was my question, actually.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-11.u44	Then I am very grateful for the explanation, because I had understood the question differently. I thought the question was about legal changes. When it comes to application, I also refer to the note I have just said that I am going to encourage him to come to the First Chamber. That is, for example, about making a report. So indeed, the application of existing legislation is relevant and that is what we really need to do. The gender mark in the passport. In the case of identity documents in particular, we are bound by international obligations. An indication of sex on passports is mandatory under international agreements and European legislation. The Secretary of State for BZK has recently had an extensive exchange of views with the House of Representatives on this subject. He also indicated that the cabinet would like to inform the Lower House of the summer about possibilities in the field of unnecessary gender indications. But once again, this is not possible in the passport, because of international agreements. Mr Lintmeijer also drew attention to this unnecessary gender registration. The cabinet is committed to this. We want to limit unnecessary sex registration. There is also something about this in the coalition agreement. The Minister of OCW expects to send a letter on behalf of BZK and JenV to the House of Representatives on this subject this month. Mr Schalk asked what consequences the choice of gender in the system of citizens' registrations has and for family law in the Civil Code. In short, the bill is not about that. I just said something about sex registration. So there is no reason to assume that this proposal would be at odds with Book 1 BW. A number of questions, and those are the last questions I would like to answer, were about the care. What is the government doing to reduce waiting times for transgender care, asked Mrs Meijer of the SP. Reducing waiting times is, of course, primarily the responsibility of health insurers. They also have a duty of care. But the cabinet is not satisfied with the waiting times in transgender care. We also think that something needs to be done to shape this transgender care forward-lookingly. That is why last summer the Minister for Medical Care and Sport, Mr Bruins, agreed with Health Insurance companies in the Netherlands that they would appoint a quarter of an hour maker who would have to come up with very concrete plans to solve bottlenecks. He should also indicate how network care can take shape and content for this target group. The Ministry of VWS is paying for it. The quartermaster is receiving support from all over the field, including the patient organisations. The Minister for Medical Care and Sport recently sent the advice of the quartermaster to the House of Representatives on 23 January. The implementation phase has thus begun. It is now up to health insurers and healthcare providers to develop the recommendations and objectives set out in the opinion. One of the objectives for this year is to visibly reduce waiting times. Of course, this requires and requires the commitment of all interested parties. Mr Bruins will also contribute to this and will also ensure that the parties take responsibility for the implementation of this plan of action. Mrs Fiers of the Labour Party asked how the government views medical intervention in minor intersex and transgender persons. She also asked if there was any reason to ask the Health Council for advice. This is a subject that we must deal with with with great care and commitment. In reply to the question put, I must, of course, distinguish between care for intersex persons and care for transgender persons. Mrs Fiers will be in complete agreement with that. There is currently a standard of care in development with regard to somatic care for transgenders. It also addresses the conditions for surgical intervention. This standard of care was offered for authorisation on 15 February last to the scientific associations, the patient organisations and the other interested parties with a request to respond to it by 29 March at the latest. With regard to care for intersex persons, a quality standard is still being developed. In the course of 2018, field parties initiated and led by Radboudumc, developed a proposal for a broad quality standard. This shows that stakeholders see the importance and need for active cooperation to improve the care of this group. The Minister for Medical Care and Sport is talking with ZorgResearch Nederland/Medische Wetenschappen about a possible assignment to further develop this quality standard. This will take into account the position of intersex children and necessary and unnecessary medical interventions. VWS and OCW contribute financially to the development of this standard. Minister Bruins continues to monitor developments in this area closely. He doesn't see any need for further investigation at this stage. Mr. Chairman. That's how I got to the end of my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-11.u45	Thank you. I'm gonna take a look at the clock. The second term is scheduled later in the evening. So that's not what we're gonna do right now. I'm suspending the dinner break meeting until 7:30.
