ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is General Political Reviews. I would like to welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State for Finance to the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mr Frentrop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good morning. We are going to talk about finance today, but people do not live on money alone, so we are doing so in a broader context, the framework of broad prosperity. Let me therefore begin with a quote from the Throne speech. "This land is full, partly overcrowded." That wasn't from this year's Throne speech. This quote is from the Throne speech of 40 years ago. Then, in 1979, our country was allowed to welcome the 14 millionth resident. This morning, I checked with the population of the CBS, the stand is 17,398,544. Tonight, that counter is going to be 250 people higher. Mr. Chairman. This country is really overcrowded right now. There aren't enough houses. Trains can't handle the offer of passengers. Roads are closed. The government demands less CO emissions, less nitrogen emissions and less chemicals in the soil. With this less, less, less policy, the government thinks it can influence the temperature of the entire globe. But with regard to the number of people in the 41,500 square kilometres that the Netherlands has, the government has no goals. Meanwhile, all around us we see the struggle for the space available: for housing, for agriculture, for industry, for transport and for greenery. For this, citizens come to the Malieveld, but the unbridled growth of the Netherlands was not discussed in the General Reviews and we do not read about it in the documents we are discussing today. Can we take the budget, the Millions Note and Macro Economic Exploration seriously? Last year, the opinion section of the Council of State called on us to consider the envisaged long-term policy on how it contributes to broad prosperity. How can we debate today about the policy and its effects on broad prosperity without first talking about the available space per Dutchman? Mr. Chairman. I note that this government, like its predecessors, does not set the right priorities. This is also reflected in the policy proposals we are discussing today. For starters, the government spends too much money. The European Union, we at the Forum for Democracy, do not like that very much, but the government has drawn up an expenditure rule for all Member States. Its aim is to control the growth of public expenditure in relation to the economy. I translate that as: the government needs to grow less than the economy, so in proportion to the size of the economy. That's a good plan, but this government can't do it. In the medium term, the Netherlands of Brussels may have a structural deficit of 0.5% gross domestic product. That seemed to be going well. About 2018 we had a structural budget surplus of 0.8%. In April of this year, the Council of State expected a surplus of 0.6% for this year as a whole. Compliments were given to the government. But they were accompanied by a warning. I quote the Council of State: 'It is wise not to let the gap between the state of public finances and the limits of European rules flow too quickly'. Well, that did happen in six months. In September, the Council of State already wrote: "We are not expecting 0.6% structural surplus in the budget this year, but half of it." For next year, the Council is counting on less 0.4, which is only just within the 0.5 limit set by Brussels. This budgetary policy, I am sorry to say, is therefore getting an inadequate one from the Forum for Democracy. And it gets worse. Because not only does the government spend too much, the General Court tells us that it is not possible to check whether all that money is being spent properly. Does the policy have the desired effects? We don't know. Is there effective governance? The government doesn't even measure that. She is not even looking to see if you could have achieved more with less money, the Court of Auditors says.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u4	I waited for a moment to see whether Mr Frentrop, after his interesting opening, in which he raised the subject of population policy, would come up with quantitative suggestions, as these are the General Financial Reviews. Because if he finds that the country is full, I expect the Democracy Forum to come up with a proposal on how things should be different. So are you thinking of a quantitative reduction? In what way? How are we gonna do that? And what square meters per head would that include?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u5	I'm flattered that Mr. Backer wants to know my personal opinion about the optimal or desired number of people in the Netherlands. In fact, I'm honored. Or did I misunderstand him?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u6	I am not so much interested in your personal opinion as in that of the party you represent. You are raising an important issue. Of course, I always find your personal opinion interesting, but in the general assembly here I am more interested in the political position.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u7	Then I am flattered on behalf of the Forum for Democracy that you want to know the opinion of the Forum for Democracy about the optimal or desired number of people in the Netherlands. I hope that your question is motivated by the desire to engage in a serious debate on this important issue. I am pleased that the call in my perhaps somewhat unusual introduction to reflection is voting on this issue. I hope the government will take good note of that too. I do not think we should start such an important discussion with the aim of eliminating numbers. This discussion must have serious support from experts, demographers and so on. People like Paul Scheffer, Jan van de Beek and Jan Latten have already put forward plans for this. I believe that the VVD Group in the House of Representatives has already asked for an investigation into this. I myself assume, and Forum for Democracy as well, that such a debate takes the current population of the Netherlands as the starting point, that is to say, the nearly 17.5 million people who live here today. The question is: do we want this number to remain the same in the majority, do we want it to be less, or do we want it to be more? That's how you shape your policy. Of the broad prosperity we're talking about, space is a very important part. Perhaps I could mention a small anecdote in this connection. The Rabobank has researched regionally where broad prosperity is highest in the Netherlands. That's north of Drenthe, I think. And I think that has something to do with space.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u8	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u9	Have I answered your question sufficiently?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u10	Mr. Backer, the third.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u11	Well, to the extent that I note that this is an open debate. I am glad about that, because I actually thought you were going to argue that we were going to reduce gradually and that you were going to tell us how we were going to do that. But I understand that it is an open debate. You also mention a number of sources, which I also know. That seems to me to be a serious point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u12	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u13	I mentioned that the General Court states that the government does not measure properly how it spends the money. I would like to add that the Court of Auditors says that the Netherlands is one of the worst performing countries in the European Union in this area, so seeing whether you spend money efficiently. You can always see all kinds of partial problems emerging, as recently in the debate on youth care in the Lower House: 30% of the money goes to management. It's a sad observation. The government spends too much and does not do so effectively. Mr. Chairman. Someone has to pay for all this, and I predict that this cabinet will soon pass a sad milestone. The collective burden will soon exceed the limit of 40% of our economy. They were 36% in 2015 and a percentage point is added every year. That these burdens are increasing is not due to any crisis. I quote again the Council of State, our advisor. He says: "The collective burden burden is relatively high. This increase is explained by policies rather than by cyclical factors." I'll translate this as government, you're in good times eating the pot. And the government is doing this somewhat secretly, because, as the Council of State rightly points out, it is difficult to calculate the collective burden from the abundance of data presented in and around the Millions Note. That is why I ask the Minister whether he would like to include the state of the collective burden with a look back and a preview in that blue booklet, that useful overview of the key figures published annually by the Ministry. Mr. Chairman. I am going from bad to worse, because even worse than the ever-increasing collective burden burden, the so-called marginal burden burden is. There was a time when Social Democrats felt that those who were born for a dime should be able to be a quarter. Well, you can't do that in the Netherlands anymore, because the government is holding it back. For people with an income to a mode, for every three cents the boss pays you extra, you're left with less than one penny. The rest goes to the treasury. Otherwise calculated: a person earning gross between €23,000 and €32,000 will pay approximately €0.90 to the government over each euro. That's not solidarity anymore. In this way, any incentive for people to improve themselves is removed. First of all, the government should do something about this. The Forum for Democracy lacks even a sense of urgency in the budget and in the tax plans. Mr. Chairman. The government is sending our country the wrong way financially. Today we are talking about the main issues of the financial plans. As one of these key issues, I would like to speak with the Minister and the Secretary of State on €250. Now €250 in itself is not a huge amount, but it is again a step in exactly the wrong direction. The government proposes to reduce the tax deduction for self-employed workers to €250. Why? Because people who work as an employed person don't have that deduction. The government does not want people who receive a fixed salary from their boss every month to have a competitive disadvantage compared to those who have to try to generate an income every day. That is why the government wants to tax the first €250 they deserve and the first €5,000 for the next few years step by step. I call on the Minister and the Secretary of State to reconsider. This government, like all Cabinets since World War II, stands up for the weak in society. "Waker" is usually defined as "people with the lowest incomes." The weakest receive benefits and, on top of that, 5 million of the 8 million households in the Netherlands receive one or more government supplements each month. More than half of the households in the Netherlands seem to be too weak to take care of themselves. Something's going wrong here, something's going the wrong way. The government doesn't help with its own money. As "weaker" defined citizens are helped with money that the government collects from those citizens who can still take care of themselves. This policy cannot continue indefinitely. Those who constantly burden the self-reliant, the stronger, are like the man who piles straw on the back of a camel. A camel is a strong beast, but at some point it is too much for him. Then one extra straw brings the beast down to its knees.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u14	I'm just trying to get Mr. Frentrop's text through to me. What exactly does he say about money going to socially disadvantaged people, to people who need it? Mr Frentrop says that this money is not from the government itself, but from those who can bear heavier burdens. But where should this money come from other than by collecting taxes based on the principle of "the strongest shoulders carry the heaviest burdens"? That's a question of solidarity, isn't it? Where else would the government get that money from?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u15	There are people who believe that there are no stupid questions and that every question leads to more knowledge and insight. I do not share that view. Nevertheless, I would like to try to answer the question where the public authorities would have to get the money from if they could not get it from the citizens through taxes. I don't think there are many other options.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u16	Maybe a higher income tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u17	I think it's also citizens who make profits.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u18	You will continue your speech. Another third interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u19	A third interruption, thank you, Mr President. I would like to come back to the issue of collective burdens and the collective burden that is increasing. Mr Frentrop would like that to be investigated, if I have understood correctly. Would he also like to include the collective benefits financed by the collective burden? He pretends that all that money disappears into a big pot and nothing happens to it, but with that money are teachers and nurses paid, schools and hospitals built, roads built, etc.? How does Mr Frentrop view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u20	It is a misunderstanding that I am advocating an investigation into collective burdens. I have asked that the collective burdens that are constantly increasing be better reflected. I suggested you put that in the blue book. There are certainly collective benefits as well; I certainly do not close my eyes to that either. If they rise, I can only welcome that, but I have also indicated that it is about the effective spending of money. This means that you try to generate as many benefits as possible with as little burden as possible. So I'm always curious about both cases, but my point was that the burdens are increasing to an unbearable level. I'm not alone in that view. I have quoted the Council of State which also says that the collective burden burden is relatively high and that this is due to policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u21	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u22	I had stayed with the camel; the camel who can also lower his knees by one extra straw. This 250 less self-employed deduction is also a straw; a straw on the back of hardworking people. The Democracy Forum believes that the government's policy should not be aimed at making entrepreneurs without staff, workers, which is the background to the current proposals. The government should ensure that entrepreneurs without staff become entrepreneurs with staff. Last week, the Minister defended a plan to set up a billion-dollar fund to increase the earning capacity of the Netherlands. Another thing you could measure. Such a fund is not necessary, because the earning capacity belongs to the entrepreneurial Dutch, to small and large independent entrepreneurs and they can do so much better than Wouter Bos. Just don't put any more burdens on them and they'll increase earning capacity. You don't have to do anything else; just keep that self-employed deduction in place. Instead, these government entrepreneurs are constantly given the black spot to stay in the time frame. Mr. Chairman. Not spending more money over and over again, but reducing burdens. The relief of the strong is the way to strengthen the earning capacity of the Netherlands. The liberal way, I would add, is a way that the Forum for Democracy advocates. The call of the Forum for Democracy to cherish the stronger is also part of the call: stop taking their savings. That is what the government has been doing for years with the capital efficiency levy. The government now recognises that it is unfair to tax people's income that people don't have. Secretary of State Snel is going to do something about this, but here we see another fundamental error in thinking: it must be done on a budget-neutral basis, the government believes. If I translate this term into plain language, it means that the government says: "Dear strong citizen, it may be that the returns on your investments are falling sharply, but we don't care, you just have to pay the same tax." Mr President, that cannot be done. The government behaves like a kind of medieval baron who says to his farmers: yes, your harvest is disappointing, nothing to do with it, you have to supply me with as much grain as before. Well, the judge has expressed all his reservations about this, too. The government keeps stacking straw on my camel's back, and from one error comes the other. Because the government wants to change the capital return tax in a budget neutral manner, complex measures must be devised whereby savings accounts are taxed differently than money, invested in bonds or in shares. And so the Tax Administration's computers need to be reprogrammed in a complicated way. They're already overloaded. A budget-neutral change can therefore be implemented in two years at the earliest, we hear. However, a legal change can be done immediately. Simply, lowering the rate requires one turn of the button and that can happen in a week. Mr. Chairman. I therefore call on the government to reduce the fictitious return on capital to a single measure. Yeah, what's fair? In my view, the same fictitious return that pension funds have to charge, the so-called arithmetic interest rate. To sum up, this cabinet spends too much money, money that should stay with the citizen. The government has abandoned the trend in fiscal policy. The Salmon norm has been put in the garbage. The Forum for Democracy is happy to pick up this Salmon Standard. We shall be cherishing this second hand, because we are aiming for a smaller government and a lower burden on the citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u23	Thank you, Mr. Frentrop. Then there is an interruption by Mr Vendrik. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u24	Mr Frentrop's opening ring a bell to me. It took a while, but I can see why now. Yesterday, the medium-term reconnaissance was launched by the Central Planning Office. Soon I tried to read it a little bit. There it is on page 21 - Mr Frentrop is served: from 2022 the population is falling from 15 to 75 years old. So those are the people who can study, get to work, keep our economy running. That also has consequences for the years to come, but that is not my question. I'd say it's settled.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u25	I didn't ask you to take care of anything. I asked you to think about formulating a population policy and think about how we can best divide the limited space in the Netherlands for all kinds of areas within the framework of broad prosperity and how many people you want to have in the Netherlands. Then, of course, we can also come up with the latest estimates from the Central Planning Bureau or the Central Statistical Office. I had to do other things last night; I couldn't read it, but I have some older figures from the Central Bureau of Statistics. That says: on average 470 children are born a day in the Netherlands and 420 people die. In addition, 655 immigrants enter daily and emigrate 450 people. For example, the population grows daily by more than 250 people. That's almost 100,000 a year. To give an impression, we now have 32 cities with 100,000 inhabitants in the Netherlands. The way things are going, there is an extra Delft, Alkmaar, Venlo or Deventer every year. Those are beautiful cities, but I'd say one of each is enough. Because all these people have to live, consume and move. I think that we really need to think seriously about this when it comes to broad prosperity, public finances and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u26	Thank you, Mr. Fentrop. I shall then give the floor to Mr Wever.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me start with Mr Vendrik's success and wish him every success in his maiden speech. But I would like to begin by expressing appreciation on behalf of our group for the budget that is now before us, for the work that the rulers have had on this and that the cabinet has had on this too. In our view, this budget is breaking through the image of the past decades, in which the Netherlands has become considerably richer but in which citizens and businesses have not or hardly noticed it, because at the same time the costs of health and social security on the one hand and the relief of public debt on the other hand have created an equally strong growth in expenditure. With the 2020 budget, however, we see a turnaround and thus an improvement for the middle income, small and medium-sized enterprises and for many target groups. We're pleased to hear that. The numbers don't lie either. Seven years in a row economic growth, high employment, falling public debt, 3 billion extra for relief, additional investment for affordable housing, youth care, defence, reduced gas extraction; an average increase in purchasing power of 2.1%, and so I can continue. And of course, there's always more to wish for. We too have points on which we would like to spend more on innovation, on police and so on, but we can only be content with the performance that is delivered in the Netherlands. This small country is the fourth economy in the world and the best in Europe, according to the World Economic Forum, and yet we are often dissatisfied. We are not only doing well according to objective figures: the Social and Cultural Planning Office also shows us that more than 80% of our citizens are satisfied with their own situation and that the broad prosperity in our country is high. The increased employment, the slight decline in poverty, a stable situation in terms of income disparities will undoubtedly have played a role in this. Despite these rosy figures and data, we also see dangers and risks in the VVD. These are also listed in the Macro Economic Explorations. Trade conflicts, lower economic growth in China, partly due to the same trade conflicts, but to us much more worryingly: the stagnating growth of German industry, Brexit and the financial situation in Italy. This translates into falling economic growth over the next few years and into declining business investment. Growth is currently largely driven by domestic spending, which is more common and often interspersed with economic growth, caused by business and exports. This implies that there is a kind of balance sheet that has to go back, towards more business investment, towards productivity growth and towards exports. Indeed, longer-term domestic spending can in our view only be financed by earning capacity in business. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he sees it as such and how he intends to make it possible, in concrete terms, to increase business investment. Despite the positive situation in our country and the fine budget that is before us, I would like to mention in my speech a number of threats that are coming to us and a number of points that are important to us. I would like to mention three points: firstly, the opportunity as regards the locational environment in our country; secondly, the risks of increasing expenditure on health and social security, as we saw yesterday in the CPB's interim report; and thirdly, the need for responsible financial policy. First of all, the opportunities in terms of the locational environment. As indicated earlier, the VVD Group is concerned about the decline in business investment combined with slightly declining exports, declining productivity growth and an industry that is struggling in Germany, our largest and most important trading partner. In order to maintain economic growth in the longer term, government and business will have to work together to push the figures back in a better direction. In his reply to the General Political Reviews in this Chamber, our Prime Minister also stressed the importance of business, but also the importance of reciprocity. In our view, it cannot and must not be the case that the government is taking the lead and that the business community does not contribute to a similar degree to improving the figures, through employees' salaries, through investment in innovation and through corporate social responsibility. There are plenty of good examples in business, let us also consider those which show that reciprocity pays and which also show that you can still show good figures. A good example for me in South Limburg is DSM, a company that has made a huge turnaround in its production and in the products it produces in recent decades. It has become an international player, still has its roots in the Netherlands and is still involved with us in the region. In our view, we can also improve performance by taking a number of measures, such as targeted investments, the conclusion of trade agreements as advocated by Commissioner Malmström, reduction of regulatory pressure and targeted tax measures. As a VVD group, we are curious to see what concrete plans the cabinet intends to propose to reverse the trend outlined above. In this year's budget, the cabinet indicated that it wanted to invest in knowledge, infrastructure and climate as the most promising sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u28	With Mr Wever, I think the locational climate in the Netherlands is a very important issue. I would like to know from him to what extent he considers it important that care, education and the police contribute to the locational environment. How does he see the role of these sectors in the location climate in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u29	Of course, these sectors are also of great importance for the broad locational environment in the Netherlands, and it is also important that there is good care. This is extremely important, but we can also see that these costs of care are only increasing, increasing and increasing. You'd have to put something on the other side of that. You have to put earning power against that; earning power that has to come from that business and that has to create higher taxes and the like, so that we can continue to finance a number of things. I will come back to the issue of care and youth care in my speech later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u30	There is a lot of unrest among care workers, among educational staff and in the police environment. How does Mr Wever explain the unrest in these sectors in the context of the importance attached to these sectors contributing to the locational environment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u31	Anyway, there's a lot of unrest with anyone who wants more right now. Let me just say that for once. We're all looking right now in the sense of "there's a lot of money; so we want more." And I understand that, too. I understand that people want more pay in a number of areas, but I think that should simply be given a proper place in the collective agreement negotiations and that this should be completed properly. However, there are limits to what we can do as public authorities in the collective sector, and we must be careful not only to think about the growth, growth and growth of collective spending, but also to think about where the income comes from. It has to be earned somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u32	I see Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u33	Mr President, thank you. I also have a question about the locational climate. When I hear Mr Wever, the location climate is fantastic, but the VVD Minister Wiebes is working on the Coal Ban Act in electricity production, with the result that a number of state-of-the-art coal plants are now becoming uneconomic. For example, the MPP3 plant in the Maasvlakte, which is three years old and has cost 1.6 billion. It's gonna be economically uneconomical. It has to be biomass-fired, and it simply cannot be done. At the request of Minister Brinkhorst of D66, this power station was built during the Balkenende cabinet and is now rendered uneconomic by the legislation of the VVD after three years. How does that rhyme with a good locational climate? It scares big investors to invest in the Netherlands with this yojo policy. How does the VVD see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u34	I do not believe that we can link this climate rule one-on-one to the broad location climate. I think that you should look much more closely at the way in which we, as the Netherlands, are open to business, allow business to settle here, tax measures and that sort of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u35	I think you underestimate the impact this has on such long-term investments in the Netherlands. You were talking about DSM. I also hear stories about Dow Chemical in Zeeland, which with the gas transition simply cannot carry out certain chemical processes and which puts investment decisions on the long track as a result of Minister Wiebes' policy. So I would also ask myself if you are talking about the location climate, so what the VVD can do to improve that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u36	I'm going to say a few things about that later on why I think we should. So you'll be served at your beck and call, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u37	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u38	Thank you. The Macro Economic Recognition and the World Economic Forum also call on us to invest in innovation and education. And we, too, advocate, Mr Otten, that we invest primarily in innovation, especially in the areas of climate, digitisation, AI, infrastructure and scientific education. We see that the cabinet wants to set up an investment fund, but first we would like to hear from the cabinet about the planned investments from 2019, the available budgets for 2020 and subsequent years. We have the question of whether the Cabinet agrees with our priorities and with us that the majority of these investments should be made through so-called triple helix structures, in which government, business and education jointly invest in money and human resources. After all, the Brainport region has demonstrated what a good triple helix collaboration can achieve and is also a model of innovation through great start-ups such as ASML and NXP, which have been developed through scale-ups into gems of our economy. This example also shows that there are great economic opportunities and opportunities outside the Randstad. Secretary of State Knops, currently Minister, has recently stated great opportunities in cross-border cooperation. Living in South Limburg, next to the well-farmed Aachen region, where some 6 million people live in a radius of 100 km, I see great opportunities in this area. With this as an example, let us not make a regional deal for each region that is devoted to all kinds of smaller projects in those regions, but instead target a number of regions where there are opportunities to develop a second or perhaps a third brainport on knowledge, infrastructure and education. We are curious to see how the cabinet views such initiatives. Then there is the problem of the regulatory burden. Most of the Dutch work in the retail and industrial sectors, followed by the temporary agency industry, employment services and health care. But a large proportion of those same Dutch people work part-time; a very high percentage compared to other countries. If one of the main explanations is given for this, it does not pay for most people to work longer. Our system of rules and fees does not make it very attractive to work more hours and then hire expensive childcare or work more hours and then receive fewer supplements. The cabinet announces an investigation into the tax review. However, we are wondering whether the Cabinet will not be able to bring some more simplicity into the legislation on taxes and surcharges in the short term, preferably by abolishing as much as possible allowances in conjunction with fair taxation leading to net increases in wages. An additional advantage of this could be that there is less work for organisations such as the Tax Administration and UWV, which are already overloaded. We should like to know from the Minister and Secretary of State whether she sees opportunities for such acceleration. Finally, on this point, a number of targeted tax measures will be considered in greater detail when dealing with the Tax Plan. Structurally, we are in favour of a tax system that counteracts tax avoidance and strengthens the business environment. The cost reduction for our citizens in 2020 is partly financed by an increase in companies, such as reducing the Vpb's high rate, broadening Vpb's base and abolishing payment reductions. We therefore ask the Minister very strongly whether he agrees with us that the reduction of the tax on profits should be postponed, but the corresponding increase in box 2 for entrepreneurs should not be a one-off thing. Once again, this does not mean that we should not ask for anything from the business community. However, we believe that measures should be explanatory and explanatory. The same applies to the CO levy for our industry. On this point, we strongly advocate European agreements, and we therefore call on the Minister to give us a look at how we can reach such European agreements. Finally, on this section box 3, where non-achievable returns will continue to be taxed. In our view, this undermines tax morality and the basis for tax support. We call on the Cabinet to undo this with the utmost urgency. Depending on the government's response, we will come back to this very strongly with the Tax Plan. Mr. Chairman. Let me now turn to the risks of rising expenditure on health and social security. More than 50% of national spending, some 167 billion, goes to health care and social security. It is also expected that both items will continue to show an upward trend over the coming decades. This increase continues despite the good measures taken by the rulers around the costs of medicine, employment and the pension agreement. This means that we need to take further action for the next few years if we are to continue to have room for burden relief, investment in innovation, education and infrastructure. In the area of healthcare expenditure, the question remains, which we in the VVD Group have often raised, whether it is not wise to link healthcare expenditure in one way or another with GDP development, both positive and negative. This could create stability in development and develop fixed frameworks within which healthcare expenditure can move. In addition, you will have to continue to work to reduce the cost of medicines, for example. We're already working hard on this. Not only can you do this nationally, but you will also have to do so at European and global level. With regard to care, too, we call for continued efforts to reduce regulatory pressure and bureaucracy. This can lead to considerable savings. We are curious to see how the cabinet views this. A specific area of concern concerns the problem of youth care and the deficits faced by the municipalities. Recently, Minister De Jonge's cabinet published an investigation of the inspection on this subject, without consultation with interested parties and directly translated into a new regional structure. We wonder if this is the right direction, but we think that this is more of a debate for the House of Representatives. However, we do recognise the analysis of the inspection of waiting lists, the budgetary problems and the failure to provide the cost of certain products. However, the question is whether you could not improve it within the existing system. Take as an example Lelystad, a medium-sized municipality. Through the decentralisation in the social domain and the cuts made there, they received 25 million instead of the 35 million needed and made available in the past. In the meantime, the cabinet has had problems with this and has made a billion dollars available for three years. This means an additional three million per year for Lelystad, which is still a deficit of 7 million, and still not structural. Apart from this, in the last two years, the municipalities have also experienced the negative effects of the step-on-step approach. As a result of disappointing investments at the Empire, it was more stairs than stairs. As a result, Lelystad, as well as many other municipalities, even with the VVD in the coalition, will have no choice but to cut back on facilities and increase the ozb. This has a negative impact on the purchasing power plates of the cabinet. Too bad. Now my group is not in favour of undoing all the cuts in the social domain. After all, the agreement on decentralisation has been concluded by both parties and municipalities are indeed able to deal with matters more efficiently, as they have proven in a number of cases, as at the Wmo. In addition, municipalities themselves will have to stop the proliferation of services provided. However, this does not alter the fact that municipalities are suffering financially. We therefore call on the Minister to speed up the investigation into the financing of municipalities and thus also to provide funds to pay cost prices. We therefore support the appeal of the Council of State...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u39	I believe that Mr Wever is going to support the appeal of the Council of State, which we also support, namely that of the concerns about the unintended side effects of the current system. When the Empire spends less, municipalities are unexpectedly given less. I am very curious about the solutions that Mr Wever has in mind for the unintended side effects of the current system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u40	The Council of State is actually calling for two directions. On the one hand, they call for a growth rate or indexation linked to gross collective charges. On the other hand, they want their own tax area to be looked at. The way I look at it right now, I'd choose the first one. With its own tax area, you should be very broad towards the tasks of municipalities. Perhaps you should look very carefully at the size of municipalities and the responsibilities involved. That's what they did in Denmark. I do not know if that fits in with the current system in the Netherlands. I have a tendency to choose the first, but I would also like to know what preference the cabinet has in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u41	It will take a while before another system is implemented. In the meantime, what should municipalities do? Is there a need for the Empire to meet municipalities more in order to deal with the major problems, which Mr Wever also points out?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u42	I think so. I also said that the inspection notes that the cost cannot be paid on parts. It has been announced that we are going to change the structure so that the cost can be paid. I would say that we now have to help the municipalities to pay the cost. That is one of the easiest considerations at the moment. That is quite apart from the fact that I really believe that more bureaucracy should be removed from the system in the area of youth care, both on the part of the municipalities and on the part of the institutions. There must be trust between municipalities and institutions to tackle problems together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u43	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u44	As far as the increase in social security costs is concerned, we see two major buttons which can be turned. The first concerns the increasing ageing population and the consequent continuous increase in the costs of the AOW. The second concerns unemployment and the cost of WW, assistance and so on. We see that in good times, as is the case at present, a pension agreement can be concluded and we can afford to slow down the retirement date somewhat for a large group of people. However, I am sorry to say, as a 57-year-old, that I do not believe that this is a policy that we can continue to pursue in the coming years, especially if we are faced with a lesser economic period. We will have to think of a different set-up of pensions, and/or an increase in the retirement age. We should like to hear the government's view on this point. The second item concerns benefits. This is a post which is extremely sensitive to the economic situation in the country and which was also highlighted this morning in the study of the Social and Cultural Planning Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u45	I have a very short question about pensions. Are you now in favour of postponing discounts? If so, for how long? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u46	In my view, I did not say very clearly that I am in favour of postponing cuts. I have said that I understand that at the moment we have a pension agreement in the luxury that we have, but I believe that it is not sustainable in the longer term and we therefore need to think about a different pension system and/or an increase in the retirement age.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u47	But I understand that today you do not really want to give an opinion on whether or not to cut short. At the end of the year, this will affect 2 million people and 10 million people by the end of next year. Could you perhaps answer that? What does the VVD Group think about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u48	Let me be very clear about that. I don't think you should cut short without knowing where you're going with the pension system. I think you should have the debate about where we want to go in the long run. Do we want to have a collective system? Do we want to go to a more individual system? It's only after that that we can make agreements about shortcuts. Moreover, I understand from the newspapers that Minister Koolmees is going to come up with a solution, at least for the first year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u49	Mr Van Rooijen, the third.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u50	I think this is a remarkable sound. I hear here in particular that discounts undermine confidence in the system. Well, that's what my group has been saying for a long time. I also hear that you actually think that you should think about the future first and not make discounts very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u51	You do give a very nice twist to my words! I don't think I said it like that. I just said that we need to think very carefully about a future system before we do anything. That is a really different point from what Mr Van Rooijen has made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u52	Think very carefully about the pension system of the future before you do anything, I hear Mr Wever say. I think we've been doing that for the last ten years. A pension agreement came out of that incredibly much fuss. What does this comment by Mr Wever in relation to that pension agreement mean? Mr Koolmees is working on this, but the agreement is there. And now, according to Mr Wever, we need to rethink. Can he explain his words?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u53	First of all, I think we should not stop thinking; that is important anyway. And, with all due respect, the pension agreement is a temporary measure. It is not a long-term solution, and we must find it, including for young people in our society. So I think you should keep thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u54	That pension agreement is an important moment, whatever you think it is, because it provides the impetus for, and sets out an agenda for, a major renovation of supplementary pensions in particular. Are we going to have to call that into question again? I don't get it. Does the VVD distance itself from that? I can't imagine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u55	No, we're not abandoning the pension agreement, certainly not. I'm just saying we have to keep thinking about what follows. How do you maintain a structural pension provision in the Netherlands that is affordable, that is manageable and offers good opportunities to all target groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u56	Mr Vendrik, third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u57	Then it's an encouragement to keep thinking. Well, it's been spent on all of us, but it's not really relevant to the pension agreement either, because that's what we're going through with. That's how I understand it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u58	Yes, the pension agreement is there, and I think we signed it with each other. All I'm saying is that we need to think in the longer term about how we'll continue to pay pensions in the long term. Let's be honest. When you look at the story of the CPB, do you see only rising burdens, both in the area of ageing and in the area of care? Then you have to keep thinking about how you want to keep paying for this, don't you? That's what I'm talking about, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u59	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u60	The second item in this area concerns benefits. That is a post that is extremely sensitive to the economic situation in our country. In this respect, it is crucial that we continue to work to strengthen our economy and the position of business, as mentioned above, but also to employ people with benefits for paid employment. In our view, it cannot and must not be the case that in many municipalities there is still talk of a 'granite stock', sometimes with one stroke of pens 50% to 60% of the stock is considered unintermediateable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u61	I would like to come back to the question of the long term and pensions, on which Mr Van Rooijen has just spoken. That is a recurring story that we hear a lot from the coalition and the VVD: in the long term it will all be fine. You are probably familiar with the economist Keynes, who said: in the long run we're all dead. Life is also lived in the short term. What are you going to do in the short term for pensioners and for the working middle class in order to significantly increase disposable incomes? That is my question to Mr Wever.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u62	Now we're going a long way. Raise it a lot? I don't know where we're getting that money, so I don't believe in that either. I say we have to think about how we can keep it affordable over the next few decades. That is a very different approach to the questions I am now hearing. Good. As far as benefits are concerned, I assume that the cabinet agrees with us that we must continue to work actively to get more people out of benefits. Mr President, finally, the last part of my speech. That is the need for financially responsible policies towards the future. The cabinet...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u63	Mr Van Strien.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u64	I hear Mr Wever's concern about benefits. In the assistance, 51% of those receiving this benefit are non-western immigrants. 9.5% are Western immigrants and the rest are native Dutch. We all know that every year, I don't know how many refugees and I don't know how many immigrants get in. How does Mr Wever intend to solve the problems of growth in benefits? Should the municipalities do so or should the government do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u65	That's not either-or; it's and-and I think. There are policies at a national level, but we have, of course, laid down a huge responsibility for municipalities in the framework of the Participation Act. We heard Kim Putters on the news this morning about the report the planning agency prepared on the Participation Act. There is still something to do in this Participation Act to help people, with more guidance and with more pressure, get a job. The economy is going well; we will have to try more to establish the link between employment and those benefit recipients.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u66	Would it perhaps be a solution for Mr Wever to simply curb the influx of people who you are sure will end up in that assistance directly from abroad?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u67	This, of course, has nothing to do with the point I'm making here. I point out that it's important that we get more people out of benefits. Then I don't care who they are. Then they're all benefit recipients. If these people are legitimate and legally entitled to benefits, we need to help them get a job.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u68	Mr. Van Strien, the third.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u69	This increase in the number of non-Western immigrants in the assistance was particularly true among the Rutte governments. Your party is responsible for this. And now, at the end of the ride, hopefully, soon you will say: we should do something about that. I really can't understand this, not comprehend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u70	I don't think this is something we're saying right now. It is also a bit bizarre to think that we are solely responsible for this. I think we will continue for a number of years. We are going to work to get people to work in a good way, to strengthen our economy and to get people out of those benefits. This is extremely important in the full sense, and that is also economically important in the end. All right, the last part of my speech. Several investigations are announced by the Cabinet, about maintaining prosperity, understanding of quality, broad societal rethinks and the Dutch economy in the long term. These studies should provide answers to questions related to ageing, productivity growth, collective arrangements, etc. We are very curious about the timeline used by the cabinet for these investigations and the order in time. We read that despite these announced investigations, we want to get to work quickly with an investment fund. This raises a number of questions. First of all... Shouldn't you finish those investigations first to see what the strategy is for the next few years? Second. Are these investigations not the basis for a growth agenda to be drawn up? Third. Is this growth agenda not then the basis for an investment fund? We have received the investments for 2019. In doing so, we have set priorities with the cabinet. What is the status of these investments? In addition, we are concerned about the possible intention to incur debts for an investment fund. We agree with the Prime Minister that you should not incur debts for consumer spending, but we also have doubts as to how to settle debts for an investment fund. In the context of sound financial policy, we believe that the government should not incur any more debts, even if interest rates are at zero. You have to pay back debts. The Macro Economic Explorations and the Council of State also make critical comments on this point. We strongly advocate releasing funds in the regular budget and agreeing on a percentage that you can use for such an investment fund. We would like to hear the Minister's views. The Council of State notes in its opinions on the Millions Note that since 1994 the Netherlands has had a trend towards fiscal policy, i.e. allowing the budget to be influenced as little as possible by cyclical factors and setbacks. The 2020 budget derogates from this and sets the salmon standard free. With the Council of State, we ask the Cabinet why it is so desirable to move towards this policy and whether it would not be better to take measures in good economic times to strengthen the economy, create a buffer and make the budget more stable. The Council of State makes a number of suggestions concerning the Municipal Fund, the housing market and the financing of investments. During the General Political Reviews we heard from various parties, but also from the Prime Minister, that our debt is low enough and the interest rate is nil and that therefore we can easily do these kinds of things and even borrow extra money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u71	On this subject of having to repay debts, I have a question. Of course, this applies to individual households, but does that also apply to the government, which has eternal life? There are many economists who say that the optimal level of debt is around 60% or perhaps 90% of GDP. Is Mr Wever assuming that the ideal level of government debt is zero and that we must continue to relieve the sovereign debt until we achieve that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u72	It doesn't necessarily have to be zero for me, but I think you should keep trying to get it down. A country such as Sweden has a very different rate of debt, as you know very well, in order to enable long-term economic growth to continue. So you can very clearly have a different view of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u73	I am curious to see exactly what Mr Wever's economic argument is about bringing that level of debt back and forth, especially now that we are living in a new reality where interest rates are so low or even negative. That actually means that you can borrow free money and that redemption costs money. Is that a reality that Mr Wever says 'I'm going to ignore' or does he think 'hey, that might have certain implications for how we should look at budgetary policy'?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u74	That's not a reality that makes me very warm. I'm not gonna say to my kids: there's free money now, so you can borrow it. There is, however, a responsibility for the longer term. I say think about how you create buffers in good times and create space. Moreover, comments on this matter made by the Council of State and so on have to do with the question of how to deal with it when the weather gets worse. Then you have room, then you have a buffer. There's my story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u75	Mr Van Apeldoorn, the third.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u76	I note that Mr Wever does not seem to care that interest charges as a percentage of public expenditure are lower than they have been in 200 years and that the public debt is already well below 50% and is still falling. Apparently, that doesn't make much difference to how Mr Wever looks at the issue of national debt. So this new reality does not exist for Mr Wever?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u77	With all due respect, this new reality is that next year we will be able to go to that 47.7%, depending on a number of measures. This new reality is that it is still higher than before the economic crisis. So you can also tie an old reality to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u78	Do I understand Mr Wever correctly that he has just said that as far as the VVD group in this Chamber is concerned, the Minister of Finance for the financing of that investment fund, which we are going to hear more about, and the corresponding agenda should not incur new debts?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u79	As far as I'm concerned, I'd rather not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u80	I'd rather not. So if he does it, too bad, but then it's okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u81	There must be a story behind that and there must be clarity about that story in the longer term. Is it actually getting anything? Does it really mean that it will make your finances structurally healthier?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u82	Mr Vendrik, third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u83	That's the story that's gonna come up. Knowing this minister, he is going to show to the VVD that the investments for which he owes at an interest rate of around zero are going to pay back and that that is better for the Netherlands in the future. Then the VVD agrees. Do I get it that well?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u84	Then the story must be convincing. I must also be made clear how this is to be financed. I need to be made clear what it's gonna do. It must be clear what it will deliver in the long term and it must be accompanied by sound public finances for the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u85	What Mr Wever says is very clear to me about the expenditure framework. I also very much agree with his warning that the salmon standard is being released. It doesn't dream of being let go, but is or wordt let go. We also presented this to the Prime Minister during the General Political Reviews. He felt that this was not the case, but that framework corrections were being applied. What is the appreciation of the VVD fraction when it comes to the salmon standard? And if we can apply framework corrections, what consequences will that have for the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u86	I think we're close. I have made it very clear that I do not think it is a good proposal to deviate from the salmon standard. I am in favour of structural, cautious government policies in this area. As far as I'm concerned, this is a one-time thing and we don't do it more often.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u87	It is very good that Mr Wever says this so clearly, but that will not only happen with the investment fund, but also, of course, with the relief we all, I think, welcome; after all these years, something must be done now. Meanwhile, we see a lot of other expenditure coming up, for example 460 million for education. Beautiful, but isn't that at the expense of salmon standards? How are we supposed to look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u88	We should definitely be careful about that. That is also one of the reasons why I said in relation to the expenditure on health and social security that we need to think very carefully about how we will keep spending on the next few decades, because otherwise you will not be entitled to all kinds of investment, reliefs and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u89	I just heard Mr Wever say that he does not want to borrow for investment funds. Last week we had an extensive debate on the 2.5 billion for Wouter Bos, which has a carte blanche for its publication, if this Chamber does not intervene this afternoon. We have a vote on this at 1.30 p.m. Do I understand from your words that the VVD is going to vote against the law on Invest-NL on second thought?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u90	No, you don't understand. I think you had a debate on this with my colleague last week and you heard very clearly that my colleague said that we will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u91	So you're for the 2.5 billion for Wouter Bos, but not for the Hoekstra and Wiebes fund? 'Cause that's what you just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u92	I'm not in favour of a fund for individuals at all. I am in favour of a fund that helps the Dutch economy, a fund that helps to make good new developments possible, including on social initiatives. And I'm in favour of sound public finances. You heard me say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u93	Mr Otten, the third.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u94	But I heard you say that the VVD doesn't want to borrow for investment funds. Didn't I just hear you say that? Or didn't I hear that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u95	You were right to hear that, and I specifically linked it to the investment fund. Mr. Chairman. All these fine questions about borrowing and so will probably be welcomed by Mrs Lagarde, the future ECB President. But we would rather not follow the examples of France or Italy. We are looking more at the Scandinavian countries. I have just mentioned Sweden with a debt rate of 25% and Norway with a fund that has been fed from the proceeds of oil and gas extraction for many years. We in Europe like to look at the northern countries. We would like to go to Norway, Sweden, Finland and Denmark to see developments that can lead us to improvements in the fields of education, youth care, decentralisation, the size of municipalities, etc. In view of this, as a VVD group, we are in favour of keeping the blame on the Nordics and not letting it go. We ask the Minister, who has made a firm move in recent years towards an intensive and intimate relationship with the Nordics, for his view on this matter. As a VVD, we do not want to be confronted with a statement by Ronald Reagan, which would be the case if we followed the advice of Mrs Lagarde. He said, "I'm not worried about the budget deficit; it's big enough to take care of myself." Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the end of my speech. I'm curious to hear the government's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u96	I waited until the end of Mr Wever's speech which I listened to with interest. I was actually waiting to see if I could see any change in Mr Wever's thinking on behalf of the VVD Group in the First Chamber when it comes to our free market economy, which may or may not mean something to people, and to what extent it is an economy for everyone. Mr Wever spoke about the reduction of charges and the climate of establishment. I tasted the idea that what is good for Dutch business and what is good for big companies, is good for all Dutch people. Does the Weaver really see it that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u97	I believe that we Liberals are still in favour of a free market economy. I still believe that a good locational environment contributes to a good society and to good business for citizens. It is never alone, of course, but we do need that business to make money and we need money to invest in collective arrangements. There is, of course, a connection in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u98	However, I would like to say a few words about this coherence. Your party colleague, the group chairman in the Lower House, Mr Dijkhoff, has written an interesting note: Liberalism that works for everyone. I've got that note right here. He states that it may have been the case that large companies brought more prosperity and well-being to our middle class, but that you may wonder if this link in the globalised economy has not been cut. This means that a more favourable policy does not automatically lead to more prosperity and well-being for every Dutchman. A liberal would argue for a different policy, Mr Dijkhoff concluded. I wonder how this liberal, Mr Wever, looks at that. Does he also see that the globalised economy might have cut through that link and that this calls for a different policy than we have so far? Or should we continue on the old ground?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u99	In my speech, I noted this by saying that this can only be done with reciprocity of business, with corporate social responsibility, with the commitment of business that is based in regions and with what is developing in those regions. There is certainly a connection in that that has also been argued by Klaas Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u100	Finally, because we come back to this in the tax debate. What, then, does Mr Wever say about the tax on profits which the cabinet will reduce after next year? If, for example, research has shown, as recently stated in Het Financieele Dagblad, that the effective income tax for large companies in the Netherlands is much lower than the official Vpb rate, can you say that large companies pay their "fair share of taxes"? Then I quote again the words of your partymate. Or is there a problem that we should do something about? Is it then wise to lower the Vpb rate?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u101	In my view, it is still wise to lower the Vpb rate and to continue to keep our locational climate as attractive as possible. We are a small country, we are open to a large global economy and we must remain as attractive as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u102	I have just had to chew on Mr Wever's plea for financial incentives to increase employment rates and his speech on benefits. What is the human image behind the recommendations you are putting forward here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u103	What human image? I think that's a very far-reaching... I think this is about how we think a society can operate in a good way. This has to do with citizens who are free to choose. That human image is therefore about citizens with free choices that you must also facilitate in order to make their choices in freedom. That's the human image that's underneath, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u104	I am asking because research shows that citizens who have free choices are not so affected by financial incentives at all. The research carried out by Nobel Prize winner Esther Duflo and Abhijit Banerjee points out that we consider matters other than financial incentives to be important. What lessons should we learn from that, according to Mr Wever?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u105	It's always nice to see that when we're all sitting here like this, we're not so plagued by financial incentives. I've been director of a social service and secretary of a job creation. I would like to tell you that these people were very excited to get a job and a normal income. That is what I meant when I said that we need to do something to improve the employment rate. There's definitely some of those incentives in there, and it helps if you start working on bonuses and the like. In my view, we can do so with simple things that are important for a large group of citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u106	Mrs. Sent, for the third time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u107	Third and last. We are going to talk about increases. There, too, there has been a misapprehension, namely a person who is constantly aware of his income situation and what allowances he is entitled to. It turns out that people don't know that at all and find it all too complicated. That is a major source of problems in the surcharge system. I would cordially recommend Mr Wever to read the new book by Esther Duflo and Abhijit Banerjee, because it clearly states that financial incentives are very limited.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u108	Well, I give it to you to do when you're on welfare.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u109	Finally, Mr Vendrik?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u110	About Mr Wever's call to increase wages. I get that. Piketty read: labour and capital are going well and we must do something about it. I couldn't agree more. Now I listen to Mr Wever in such a way that the VVD group says: "business life, for what. A firm commitment to contract wages next year must be the outcome; then we will talk." These contract wages are now estimated at 2.5% increase next year. Is that enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u111	Is that enough? That'll be variable for everyone. I don't think it's enough for the people involved. We are not afraid of the protesters and protesters coming to The Hague. It won't be enough soon. I think it is a very nice margin that we are offering at the moment. In addition to all the collective bargaining and the opportunities that exist there, I think that at the moment it is really the space that we can offer. If there is more possible in the longer term... You have read the CPB report very quickly and it shows that we are moving towards a jittery economy with 0%.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u112	I assume that everything that is being exchanged in this Chamber is not entirely politically innocent. I'll listen to Mr. Wever in a minute. If Dutch industry does not deliver here next year, this could have consequences for tax reliefs in 2021, for example. If I've misunderstood that, I'd love to hear it, but that's how I get it. Now I also know the VVD as a party of appointment is appointment and checkout at the exit. So the question now is: what exactly should the Dutch industry hear in this remark by Mr Wever? When will the VVD Group in the First Chamber be satisfied with the outcome of the increase in contract wages next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u113	I think it's a broader perspective. When will you be satisfied? That's a very nice spec. I believe that we will be satisfied if we continue to make the location climate attractive. That is what you must continue to invest in, and you must continue to create opportunities for business. At the same time, you may also ask the business community: "You must also invest. We are making a number of things possible, we are turning the buttons of the profit tax, we are turning all kinds of buttons, but we also want you to turn buttons around collective bargaining and co-innovation. It can't be that triple helix means: the government puts money in it and we think with it. No, we'll put money in it." So in reciprocity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u114	Thank you, Mr. Wever. I shall then give the floor to Mr Vendrik for his maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u115	Mr President, thank you. And thank you to Mr Wever for his kind remarks just now. In 1906, 113 years ago, the then Minister of Finance, the Master, presented a good title, by the way, the first Note concerning the state of the country's finances. On 17 September last, the Minister of Finance sent the last copy to Parliament. The GroenLinks Group appreciates the cabinet's attempt to place this Millions note in the context of broad prosperity and well-being. At the same time, however, as the cabinet itself pointed out in that document, this Millions note is, in the end, a normal financial and economic piece. As far as the GroenLinks Group is concerned, the cabinet is taking further steps here, so that the Millions note grows into an annual comprehensive welfare note. I invite the Minister of Finance here today to think further about this. I have three reasons for this. First of all, the major challenges of this time, for the Netherlands, Europe and globally, are: climate change, large-scale loss of biodiversity, water scarcity, social inequality. The Sustainable Development Goals agreed in 2015 and the Paris Agreement are the crucial agenda for the next decade. The Dutch government also committed itself to this in 2015. A sustainable, inclusive economy, which does not leave any ecological debt for future generations, is the goal. So it's an optimal prosperity. The most important political document of the year, the Millions' Note, should express all that. Secondly, the transitions required for this are far-reaching and require a modern and active government. Like Mariana Mazzucato says, "The Entrepreneurial State." All the institutions on which the cabinet is waving the scepter should come into view. From competition law to taxation, from accounting rules to financial regulation, from labour market policy to public banks, from basic policy to trade policy, from civil law rules for corporate governance to government budget, from regulation to subsidies, and so on. The transitions we know will only succeed if they are inclusive. The issue of equality of opportunity, income and wealth distribution is inextricably linked to this. Thirdly, broad prosperity is, of course, also a matter of sound economics. The sustainable transitions require, on the one hand, an active government policy with a good programme of smart investment and, on the other hand, a path to manage risks, assess costs and properly settle beached assets. In short, in the opinion of the GroenLinks Group, each year at Princess Day, the government should focus its political and policy visor to the maximum on the consistent and consistent improvement of the performance in the field of broad prosperity, present here and now, later and elsewhere, and together present all relevant policy proposals, including budgetary and fiscal intentions. We know the CBS's Broad Prosperity Monitor, which has been published since 2018, but this is about the state of play. That's beautiful, but that's supposed to be the back. Now it's time to pull up the leg at the front. I'd like a response from the Minister. Is it conceivable, I ask him, that this option should also be given to the Study Group on Budgets? And by the way, what about the study group? Tell me more. Mr President, speaking of broad prosperity, last September the UN Climate Summit took place in New York, at the invitation of Mr Guterres, the Secretary-General. He had a good reason. Because almost four years after the Paris Agreement, the world doesn't make much of it. Global emissions are still rising and, despite all good intentions, we are nowhere at all. At this rate, without intervention, one and a half degrees of global temperature increase in the next decade is probably a fact, and while the IPCC strongly advised the world community last year to use this limit of one and a half degrees as a maximum. Unfortunately, the promises made by the countries that have supported Paris are not yet very close to them. Mr. Chairman. There are many reasons to turn away a future of climate change with all its power. I confine myself to the financial and economic consequences. These are likely to be significant for the Netherlands as a low-lying country with an open economy and deep dependence on, for example, raw materials and products from elsewhere. In 2006, Lords Stern calculated, at the request of the British Government, that the costs of inaction would amount to 20% of global GDP and later added that this was a cautious assessment. It's probably more like double. Other OECD studies also point in this direction and the impact on the public budget is then quite significant. Then I, Minister of Finance, find the following strange. In the Netherlands, since 2006, we have been simply checking whether the government budget and the long-term arrangements financed by it are sustainable, the sustainability balance. Very good, and it's also had great political impact since then. Taboos on tax subsidies at home and longer working hours have since become liquid. Since the financial crisis of 2008, the Minister of Finance has carried out shock tests and stress tests, also fine. With the euro crisis of 2011-2012, the Fiscal Compact calls for a better look at the structural balance, the MTO of the euro area countries. Excellent. So we now know about until the decimal point whether the government budget is in balance in the long term, sometimes in the long term. Is it not strange, I ask the Minister of Finance, that we do not yet have the beginning of a quantitative idea of the mid-term impact of a world of uncontrolled climate change on the economy and the budget over, say, 10, 30, 50 years? That impact is probably in double digits before the comma. Both from our truly solid long-term perspective for the budget and the economy, for broad prosperity, and for balancing the climate debate of recent times, because the cost of intervention is set at the cost of doing nothing, and I ask the Minister of Finance here for a more detailed assessment, a reflection. He may see an opportunity to consult with the planning agencies to do something about this in the form of a green sustainability study which is repeated periodically. Please respond. Last week, the House of Representatives debated the first nitrogen plans of the cabinet, and here, too, widespread prosperity. Last Saturday, Coen van Dedem, consultant to the Forest Effect Fund, said this in an impressive way in NRC Handelsblad: "Yet more 60 harvests, then it's up." The current agricultural model of the Netherlands is ruined by its own success. In 60 years, the ground will be completely exhausted. Here too, we are threatening to leave an impossible legacy for our children and grandchildren: no more natural food production in the Netherlands. And this too is a question of broad prosperity. Conservation of natural capital, biodiversity, above and below ground. And here too, the long-term economic consequences and the impact on the budget are likely to be considerable if we do nothing. Does the cabinet agree with this view? Mr. Chairman. The cabinet, as we understood last week, makes room for construction projects by reducing the speed limit during the day. How does this affect the present draft budget for 2020, in particular the Infrastructure Fund? Give us a hand, Minister. Are new construction and dike-building projects, or is this space being used mainly for road construction projects, particularly due to the nitrogen space created? And if the limited nitrogen space is used in the mobility domain, has a careful balance been made between which projects are most urgent and profitable for society? It would be a shame if we did not put that money into those projects that are most profitable. I would like the Minister of Finance to clarify the way in which last week's decision was passed on to the present draft budget, particularly in the case of infra. As mentioned above, the transitions require an active role of the government. That brings me to the investment fund that is not yet available but is coming. I was somewhat surprised, I say to the Minister of Finance, that the cabinet came up with this idea right after the Climate Agreement came about. That agreement, as we know, had to be made with limited budgetary commitment, resulting in a huge discussion and a lot of fuss about the distribution of private burdens. Why this order, Minister of Finance? Coincidence or not? The Minister said in the House of Representatives that this fund should contribute to long-term economic growth, and the Minister of EZK is therefore working on a growth agenda. That sounds a little old-fashioned. I would like to ask the Minister to respond to a wonderful publication of a group of top economists from September last, working for the OECD, Beyond Growth: Towards a New Economic Approach. That should be the guiding principle of the investment fund and the agenda of the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Cabinet. As far as the GroenLinks Group is concerned, the cabinet is therefore working on a public Investment Agenda, which takes the broad prosperity and the associated transitions as its starting point. We therefore prefer to speak of a transition fund. But is that also the choice of this cabinet? I haven't heard it put in this way yet. I do hear the Minister of Finance talking about new technology, robotisation, artificial intelligence and ageing, and that is all very important, but not directing or leading this Investment Agenda and this fund? Mr. Chairman. Let me give you three good examples for inspiration. The Climate Agreement makes it very clear that green hydrogen will play a more important role in the energy system of the future. In order to achieve this in the Netherlands well and quickly and to keep pace with global development, a robust investment programme in green hydrogen seems to be very obvious. Is that what's coming? For example, a sustainable transition in agriculture.............................................................................................................................................................. Crucial, as a recent report by the PBL showed, to get that transition to circular agriculture on track. The third example is that, if I am right, there is a draft North Sea agreement in the Cabinet. Then we need resources to combine wind at sea, sustainable fishing and the strengthening of the ecological quality of the North Sea. Is that gonna happen? Mr. Chairman. What is true for the investment fund is actually true for other areas of public policy. Last week, we found that Invest-NL also explicitly embraces this broad welfare perspective, on the instructions of the government, and does not finance fossil projects. In addition, the European Investment Bank, at the end of last week, will do the same. Is this Minister of Finance going to extend this line to export credit insurance, in my opinion, is that not yet around the issue of debt securities and other commercial promotional instruments, which are included in the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? I think the message is very clear: no more fossil projects, which are somehow helped by the government. Mr. Chairman. The same goes for the Secretary of State for Finance, and I ask him to give an idea of where he stands with his greening agenda. This is aimed not only at aviation, for example, where we have to do something about the Chicago Convention, but also at all kinds of areas of taxation, tax expenditure and all kinds of ground-breakers that currently subsidise fossil industry. Where do I see that this cabinet is reducing these subsidies? That was agreed ten years ago in the G20 framework. Mr. Chairman. I am moving to macroeconomic policy, although the relationship with the investment fund and the transition fund is large. For about seven or eight years, the euro area has been dealing with a macroeconomic gap that we have never seen before. Budgetary policy is usually extremely restrictive, monetary policy is broad, exceptionally broad. It seems that Frankfurt and Brussels have held each other at gunpoint for years after 2012, and the consequences are considerable. In times of ageing, low inflation and capital-intensive growth, this mix continues to haunt the surplus of savings, resulting in very low interest rates. The macroeconomic balance is permanently lost here. My question to the Minister of Finance is whether he sees it that way. And what else? Does he share my view that more balance should be sought and that this should come from public investment? It's the only option we have. Please respond. Mr. Chairman. Is this recent history, ten years of crisis policy in Europe, not a reason to take a more fundamental look at the rules of the euro area? In particular, I am asking for the Brussels agreement to review the policies of euro area countries since 2012 on macroeconomic imbalances. I don't think that's gonna happen. Notoire surplus countries such as the Netherlands and Germany, which push savings year in, year out elsewhere in the euro area, do not notice this and therefore contribute to a structurally unbalanced situation. That is also what I draw from the Council of State's budgetary opinion. What is the Minister's view on this? So, what assignment, what room does the study group get for budgetary space here? Mr. Chairman. The cabinet has recently announced that EUR 460 million will be made available for education on an occasional basis. That's profit. We understand that the Autumn Note 2019, which we do not yet know, is the moment when the details are published. Please update the Minister of Finance on this state of affairs and next steps. Is it true that the cabinet will send a letter of amendment to the Dutch Parliament on the Education draft budget for 2020, so that we will get it back here with the planned intensifications? Mr. Chairman. It is well known that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance believes that these resources should have a structural impact. The cabinet hasn't gotten that far yet? I ask that with a hopeful question to the Minister of Finance. Or is it gonna get a little bit of it anyway? I'd like a very clear answer. Perhaps in the second term I will come up with a motion expressing this wish. Mr. Chairman. A similar question about Minister Dekker's plan, which announced last week that he would pay two times 36.5 million for the social lawyer. That too has our warm agreement. Here too, the Minister for Finance would like to clarify this step and the question of what the structural impact is. (NL) Mr President, finally, taxation. I'm saving the 2020 fiscal package for a later moment, but now this. The Donner Committee published its initial findings on the supplement drama last week. Now we know what we could have suspected for a long time: the surcharge system is far too complicated and the Tax Administration, partly under political pressure following the Bulgarian fraud, has opened up a careless hunt for families using surcharges. Not to be seen. Welcome to the world of hard maintenance. Shame on all of us is supposed to be on the jaws. Mr. Chairman. It is very good that, at the end of last week, the Secretary of State has exhausted himself in apology to the families affected and is going to compensate them. My plea is therefore: do so generously and do not allow another discussion to take place. The best question is perhaps now to the Secretary of State, which has gone deeply wrong here. And how did this go on for so long? Mr. Chairman. Then the future of the surcharges. Since last week there is the first part of the ibo. There's gonna be another part 2. Let me get this straight, I'll ask the Secretary of State. Are the basic options for the surcharge system then discussed? As far as we're concerned, I'd love to. That's what it should be about. In fact, the Balkenende II cabinet has made two highly questionable choices. Childcare should not become part of the public sector such as education, it should be a market, and care premiums should necessarily be charged nominally and not income-dependently. The result of this choice was that millions of surcharges had to be used to keep citizens out of the water. The best way to get rid of this is to eliminate the need for, in particular, these two surcharges. That is a political choice and it should now be discussed again. If that's in ibo 2, I'll ask the Secretary of State. Is it gonna come back to the building block exercise he's working on? Mr. Chairman. Finally. The IRS is having a hard time. The implementation and feasibility of the tax system is constantly a matter of concern, and we have also discussed this with Mr Snel recently. Here's one question. We all see that the tax system is in need of renewal over the next five years. I ask the Secretary of State to make it clear what can be achieved in the coming years, whether what is feasible or what is necessary to deal with fundamental interventions in the system. The Borstlap Committee will soon have to launch an inclusive labour market. We have a great plan to implement on further greening and defossilisation of taxation. There is work to be done to help people, especially on and around the minimum, who are already unable to cash in discounts. What is the right perspective for implementation here? Because, Mr President, the Tax Administration is the department that all the citizens of the Netherlands are dealing with. He should be the calling card of an active, involved and modern government, which promotes broad prosperity every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u116	Thank you, Mr. Vendrik. Congratulations on your maiden speech. Allow me to outline another aspect of your background. You studied political science at the Catholic University in your hometown of Nijmegen and at the University of Amsterdam, where you specialised in international economic relations. After graduating, you became a member of the PSP group in the Lower House, which later merged into the new GroenLinks Group. In 1993 you were a short-term official at the Ministry of Housing, Spatial Planning and the Environment, before you started working as chief of political programming at De Balie debate centre. After five years, you were asked by Paul Rosenmöller at that time, just like now, to stand as a candidate for the 1998 Lower House elections. In the end, you would remain a member of the House of Representatives for GroenLinks. Across the street, you were spokesperson in various areas, especially on financial and economic issues. Femke Halsema once mentioned you, and I quote: "The living proof that left-wing people can count." So no surprise that you are speaking today during these General Financial Reviews. You worked in the Lower House, among other things, for the publicity of top incomes. This led to the law on top income information in 2006, which extended the information law of works councils. In 2010, you were the only sitting representative of the people heard by the De Wit Committee, which conducted a parliamentary inquiry into the credit crisis. As a Member of Parliament, you were one of the few people who had been critical of the emergence of derivatives, the quality of supervision and the stability of the system well before the 2008 crisis. When you left the Lower House after 12 years, you became a member of the General Court of Auditors. Since 2017, you have been the head economist of the Triodos Bank. In 2018, you were chairman of the climate table electricity, one of the five working groups that prepared the Climate Agreement. During your student time you followed a theatre director's programme and were active as a technician, actor and director. As a politician you move and speak on a different stage, but these skills are also very useful here. To speak to Shakespeare: "All the world's a stage," after all. Once again, welcome and we look forward to your further input. Then I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments, so that all the other Members can congratulate you, and I congratulate you as President first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u117	I give the floor to Mr Niek Jan van Kesteren.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u118	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Vendrik on his work. Mr. Chairman. Public finances are to a large extent a mirror of the economy. If the economy is doing well, then state finances also thrive through higher tax revenues and lower social security expenditure. The Dutch economy, according to the annual report of the World Economic Forum, is the strongest in Europe. It is therefore no coincidence that the cabinet will be able to show nice figures again this year. The latest data also show that economic growth is continuing, and that is positive. Mr. Chairman. However, the relationship between economic and public finances requires maintenance. Delaying, for example, the reduction of the Vpb is a wrong signal. The location climate is based in particular on two pillars: a favourable fiscal environment and the availability of a well-educated workforce. This must always be the focus of economic policy. The policy of the cabinet is not in the right direction in my group's view in this respect. Publicly setting up large companies in particular is perhaps a good thing for the public, but it is risky in the longer term. Moreover, the consequences of an unfriendly policy come from the average of Dutch companies: the family businesses. It is to be hoped that the cabinet will adjust its course again. It may be necessary to establish a dialogue between the cabinet and business in a broad sense in the foreseeable future in order to see what needs to be done to restore confidence. This should be a dialogue in which industry also takes a critical look at its own role and focuses on the question of how the economy is developing and on what responsibilities the government and industry should have in relation to each other. I'd like a response from the cabinet on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u119	Can Mr Van Kesteren explain the consequences of these words for the present budget and the fiscal package?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u120	That's not what it's about. I express the need for dialogue between society and the business community because, in my group's view, the necessary changes have been made to this in a negative way. My proposal aims at a longer-term input from all parties to address the issues you have also identified in your speech in an appropriate manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u121	If the cabinet and business should at least try to get closer together on that long-term perspective, then who should take the biggest step?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u122	Well, that depends on where you're standing. I come to that in the rest of my speech, but everyone can see that there is a breach of confidence between them at the moment. There's a lot going wrong. The recent contestations show that, too. I think that we all benefit from a discussion about the responsibilities that everyone has, given also the major issues that we are facing and the global developments that we are seeing. It is not for me to say who should take the biggest step here, but everyone should look at themselves, especially the business community, because it is undeniable that there have been quite a series of incidents that have embarrassed confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u123	Trust is a very important engine of our economy. That is why I welcome Mr Van Kesteren's call for dialogue. But I would like to know from him who, as far as he is concerned, are the interlocutors in such a dialogue. Does he confine himself to the government and the business community or can he also imagine that there are public sector interlocutors joining such a conversation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u124	I said business in the broadest sense. So I am not just talking about business in the market sector, but I am also talking about those responsible in the care sector and education and so on. Mr. Chairman. Our economy is strong and our public finances are healthy. The Netherlands is traditionally a frontrunner with this combination. We are a country with a pragmatic, flexible and consensus-oriented approach. That's taken us a long way. The polder model has been declared dead many times, but fortunately it is always very alive, as witnessed by the recent agreements on climate and retirement. Both issues still require a great deal of work. The climate issue represents a huge change for our economy and for society as a whole. The tension between economics and ecology/space is becoming more and more palpable. In recent weeks, this has become more than clear on issues such as nitrogen and pfas. It will take a lot of money to manage these tensions. In particular, it is a question of providing opportunities for technological innovation and of getting and maintaining the support of citizens and businesses for change. Mr. Chairman. The fund envisaged by the cabinet can play a major role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u125	I would like to ask Mr Van Kesteren a question. The Programmatic Approach Nitrogen he is now talking about was justified by his party mate in the Lower House by: if it does not last in court, then our entrepreneurs have profited from it. So actually there was an advance on a very uncertain future. We now know that the advance should not have been made, even the Council of State says. Mr. Van Kesteren is now telling us to make a move with technological innovation. Then you're talking again about taking an advance on the future. Is the CDA prepared to draw conclusions from the mistakes made in the past, rather than choose a flight forward with solutions that have not yet been proven?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u126	I think you understand me a little too one-dimensional. I have spoken about technological innovation because I believe that it will be necessary in any case to link up economics and ecology in the future. But that's not the only thing. I didn't want to say that either. My message is that you can only solve these issues if you can continue to involve citizens and businesses in the process of renewal. That's what I just said. The problem of nitrogen cannot be solved if you do not agree with those involved. Those involved are the entrepreneurs, but also the nature conservation movements. The way things are going isn't gonna work out. I therefore call for an approach which balances all interests, and that is more than technological innovation. But it is also more than simply saying: half of the companies must close down.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u127	The closure of these companies is the result of this policy. Every day five to seven farmers quit their farms. This is the result of the policies of recent years. The point is that we have already tried this technological innovation. We've been subsidising low-level stables. We've been subsidising a different composition of animal feed. Research by the CBS shows that it didn't work. Those low-level stables were a sweetener. They didn't work because they emit as much nitrogen as a regular stable. That cattle trail has not worked, but it is also a suggestion from the cabinet that subsidising low-level stables, technological measures and other feed would lead to the desired solution. Where does that thinking come from?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u128	That's progress optimism. For a long time, people have believed that technological progress is helping humanity. You can't deny that either, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u129	This is your third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u130	Sure. That's the thought of turkeys saying, just before Christmas, we've never had it as good as we do now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u131	Okay. I was at the fund that I said the transition would cost a lot of money. At the same time, there is a need to reduce the burden on citizens and businesses. This means that we will have to bear a lot of costs collectively. A fund can be a good way of doing this. Many sectors, agriculture, industry, energy, construction and transport, will have to change. This change must lead not only to a better climate, but also to a structurally stronger economy. I'd like the cabinet's vision on this. The use of a fund may also be useful in combating a possible downturn in the economy. Most of the time, government cuts if there is no economic growth. This has also happened during the last crisis and has increased the problems rather than reduced them. We have to learn from that. A well-stocked fund can, if less, sustain the economy through investment, with emphasis on investment. This should not be a question of consumer spending. I would also like a reaction from the cabinet. The fact that there has been some tension with the so-called salmon standard, as the Council of State points out, calls for a further reaction from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u132	Mr Van Kesteren's comment on the salmon standard is in any case very much in my view and, moreover, a very important part of his speech. I do have a question about the investment fund. In Mr Van Kesteren's speech, I thought I heard that the investment fund could also be used to solve the problems of the climate and so on. Don't you see that as some sort of bottomless pit? Wouldn't it be a very big risk that the investment fund will fall completely into that, so that nothing will happen to your second call to save for bad times?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u133	That is the tension between the two points. The background to my comment is that we are facing a future that requires a lot of things at the same time. The recent CPB report also indicates this. I shall come back to that in my further speech. I believe that the issue of climate change calls for investment in any way. These investments will partly have to be made by the public authorities. We now have the opportunity to form a fund under favourable financial conditions. I think it would be wise to do so and to link clear objectives to it. Then you can make the most important investments for the future. In addition, we are facing rising healthcare costs and rising costs for the AOW. We need to spend a lot more money on Defense, given international developments. And we still have the problem that people have relatively little left of what they earn from working.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u134	That was a clear answer, a clear statement. It makes the following subject, which Mr Van Kesteren mentioned, complicated, namely salmon standard. The investment fund is contrary to what we have agreed under the salmon standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u135	That is absolutely the essence of the matter. I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u136	I am pleased to listen to Mr Van Kesteren when he makes the link between climate transitions and that investment fund. That's what I argued. Another function that Mr Van Kesteren attaches to that investment fund is that investments from that fund can be made in economic bad times. This fund should also be used to boost spending in economic downturns. Do I get it that well? If so, then my question is: do we have the trend of fiscal policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u137	I don't mean to give a spending impulse. I am more of the school that, if the economy collapses and there is less employment in the market, the economy can be kept going through collective investment. These are traditional insights, which are not always practiced. At the last crisis, we saw that there was no other way. I'd think you'd hit two birds with one stone if you used one of those funds for the necessary transition of the economy. That brings with it investments and when you're in that power, you have a kind of natural buffer in the event of an economic downturn, which always comes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u138	You continue your argument, Mr. Van Kesteren.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u139	Mr. Chairman. Netherlands...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u140	Mr Ester has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u141	I was listening to Mr Van Kesteren very well. I understand what he's saying. He started his story with the flawed trust between government and business. Actually, that's what it came down to. I believe we have spent the investment fund seven times this morning. Maybe we can link up two things that you indicated yourself. The first is restoring confidence, engaging in conversation. The second is the investment fund you were just talking about. You also need something of leverage to facilitate that conversation. Do you see anything in it to link those two things? Do I express myself well enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u142	I agree with you. I think that a discussion about restoring trust will be greatly helped if you can put that into practice with a common understanding of how to address the most important challenges in the future in the financial field. I agree. The Netherlands stands where it stands for decades, at least since the Wassenaar Agreement of 1982, a policy based on sound financial policies, wage moderation and employment promotion. That's taken us a long way. Can this policy be continued? Yeah, but that's gonna be harder than in the past. Many old laws are under pressure. The labour market has changed and the position of trade unions has been subject to erosion for a long time. Companies can no longer count on the sympathy of the general public, due to a series of incidents. There is a great deal of discontent about lagging behind in the disposable income of large groups of the population. Potentially a lot of ground for division therefore. And yet, Mr President, cooperation will be needed to keep the economy strong. The government will need a lot of money for the energy transition, but also for increasing defence expenditure. At the same time, as the Council of State points out, the tax burden will not be able to increase further. What approach does the cabinet see from this complex combination of factors, which Mr Schalk has just outlined? The task for which we stand is great. The government is generally doing what it has to do in the financial field. Compliments for that. This does not apply to the capital efficiency levy. It remains unrealistic in terms of interest rates. Can this really not be dealt with more fairly in the short term? Is the reason why the measures cannot be introduced before 2022 lies in the impossibility for the Tax Administration to implement them quickly? I have already said in this place that we are close to the situation where the desires of the legislative authority are based on the inability of the executive in this case the Tax Administration. After the drama of childcare allowances, it is clear that this is not the way to proceed with the Tax Office. Ever the pearl of the implementing agencies...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u143	Could Mr Van Kesteren also think that this is the resultant of what the legislator has wanted over the years, with refinements and with innovations?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u144	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u145	As a result, we are now in a situation where feasibility is becoming a major problem. It is perhaps a little too easy to turn it around now and say: the legislator is no longer in charge because it cannot be of service. That's the result of something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u146	I agree. My next sentences were also: "The Tax Administration was once the pearl of the executive agencies, and now it's overloaded and freaked out. The surcharge factory has put the tax authorities on the ground." It went wrong with the Tax Administration when the whole premium circus was planted there and people had to do things that weren't quipped out. Those are political choices that have been made. Furthermore, you are right that the eternal need for sophistication puts an execution service in an impossible position. This applies not only to the Tax Administration but also to the UWV and many other services.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u147	Maybe a question to make it concrete after all. I am glad that Mr Van Kesteren says: this is no longer possible with the Tax Office. I very much agree with him. The question is how to do it differently. So what's to go on? Mr Van Kesteren refers to the premium circus. My question to him is: shouldn't we be getting rid of it? Should we not think about a different system whereby we regulate it in a different way and not through this system of surcharges?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u148	Yeah, I think so. Look, if you want an executive service to do its job properly, you have to give him a simple, clear task and enough people to do that job. The debate on supplements has arisen because we wanted to organise certain services in a certain way; this has just been recalled by, I believe, Mr Vendrik. Take child care, for example. I was there, I must say, in a previous life advocated placing child care in the market, as a place where it should be done. This then leads to a price that people cannot pay, and then you have to pay fees in order for them to do so. Those are choices. We made that choice once and there is a lot to say for it, but this is the disadvantage. So I can't say today: cancel the surcharges. Then you bring the people who are involved in a very difficult situation. You have to make choices: who does what? Perhaps you should take that into account in the dialogue I was talking about, because those choices we have made are also fairly ideologically determined.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u149	But it is not simply, as Mr Van Kesteren now proposes, a choice between, on the one hand, compensating for payments for people who cannot pay it, and, on the other hand, leaving it to the market? Take the example of childcare. You can make up for it all by means of surcharges, but you could also say: as a government, we make sure that it is a service that is provided to people and that they could possibly use for free. And, of course, you can also do things in taxation that would not require these surcharges. So could Mr. Van Kesteren be a little more creative? Are other solutions conceivable for the CDA Group? Or is it that choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u150	As far as the CDA Group is concerned, many solutions are always possible, but we must, of course, think carefully about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u151	Now, Mr Vendrik, and then I suggest that we continue for a moment, otherwise we will get into trouble with lunch break planning.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u152	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. When it comes to the surcharges, we very much like to look at the CDA and the further thought about it. Do I hear Mr Van Kesteren say that we really need to look at this system more fundamentally and we need to have the debate with each other? Is that also an appeal to the Cabinet and the Secretary of State? See if you can organize the day care in another way, so you can lose those fees. See if you can make the nominal care premium largely dependent on income and discount in the tax system, so you don't need a care allowance anymore. Are those options that Mr Van Kesteren should have on the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u153	When I wrote my contribution, I didn't have such fundamental questions in mind. But I admit that the supplement debate does bring us to very fundamental questions. I am not going to go into that now because that is too far, but you cannot solve the problem of supplementing without fundamentally making different choices. I think so, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u154	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u155	I'm going back to the capital return tax. I would once again like to ask whether this can really be done more fairly, for example by a temporary increase for savers of the exemption in box 3 until the new system enters into force. I'd like a response from the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. Interest rates also raise pension problems. The pension funds make sufficient returns, but are forced by the accounting system not to index and even to shorten. This situation is slowly becoming incomprehensible. My group therefore also calls for the reductions to be suspended by making use of the possibilities offered by the Pension Act in this respect. That is what a letter is about today and I hope it will go in this direction as well. If this does not happen, the discontent of those covered by the pension system will increase further and the pension agreement will also be at risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u156	That letter will indeed come this afternoon, probably before I speak, as I understand it, but that aside. That's a nice timing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u157	There's no causal link either, is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u158	My question to Mr Van Kesteren is as follows. If he pleads for postponement, is that for one year or two years or more? Because one year's delay means that in a year's time 11 million people will still have to take into account large discounts. That's what the planning agency reported yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u159	I think it would be better to take a somewhat longer period, because the implementation of the pension agreement also requires more time. Anyway, people are always in political situations; you know that. Choices are being made. So one year's delay is also a year's delay. You can also look at it pragmatically.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u160	But you do recognize that if it is only one year, the discounts will be on the table again next year and for the other big funds, such as ABP and Care and Welfare and not just for the metal? These are 10 million or 11 million participants, 8 million workers and 3 million older people. Would it not be good to tell all these people as soon as possible that at least the discounts are off the table until after the elections, also to give the pension agreement rest and time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u161	That might be better, but the question is whether this is feasible in the political composition as we know it now. I'm practical through and through. One year's delay is a year's delay and perhaps next year's cabinet will say: we'll add another year, Mr. Van Rooijen. It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u162	Mr Van Rooijen, the third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u163	I'm assuming so, too. But I was a little shocked by what Mrs Van Spirit of the planning agency said yesterday, namely that there is no delay. Hence my question to you. Because if there's no delay, then some pressure from your side on the cabinet might be a great help.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u164	Thank you for the compliment. If the pension agreement is compromised, this will not only be a serious political setback, but will also damage the position of the trade unions and hence the consultation model between employers and employees. What is the government's current view of pension issues? I was just talking about the consultation model. This model represents balanced industrial relations. Employers and employees must balance. This is an essential condition for a healthy economy and for a healthy society. My group is concerned about whether industrial relations are still balanced. Trade unions are losing their position in many sectors andzzp'ers are poorly organised. The balance between fixed and flexible labour has changed considerably. This development does not seem to stop. The number ofzzp'ers will increase due to a complex of factors. Digitisation cuts the link between the worker and the workplace. People choose the freedom to work on their own time. Add to this the strict right of dismissal, the high wedge and the compulsory payment of wages in the event of illness and it is clear which direction it will continue to go. My group is concerned about the labour market. It seems that the problems are structural. We would like to hear from the cabinet, perhaps, after the opinion of the Borstlap Committee has been delivered, how this major issue, which Mr Borstlap has referred to as a new social issue, should be addressed. As far as we are concerned, at least the government has a role to play when it comes to social security. It is socially irresponsible that so manyzzp'ers are uninsured against incapacity for work. In the opinion of the CDA Group, compulsory insurance against in any case irreversible incapacity for work is necessary. A few comments on the banking sector: crucial for the economy and thus for public finances. Confidence in banks is one of the corks on which an economy runs. In this context, the question to the cabinet: is there sufficient confidence that the banks carry out the checks on money laundering properly? Another question: can the government go into the future of the Volksbank again? Finally, I would also like to respond to the thoughts expressed by the German side in order to take further steps towards a European deposit guarantee scheme. Finally, Mr President, and I will conclude, the international framework. We are an internationally orientated country. Our economy is driven by exports. Threats are lurking. Brexit and the US-China trade war are obvious examples of this. Europe remains crucial for the Netherlands from an economic and political point of view. The vast majority of our exports go to European countries. At the same time, geopolitical developments call for a strengthening of Europe in the field of external border surveillance and foreign policy. Europe is making a lot of money for our companies and therefore for the government. On the other hand, Europe must also be paid to finance the common policy. The departure of the British will lead to a discussion as to whether and, if so, how much more will the Netherlands and other Member States have to pay. My group would like to ask the cabinet to conduct this discussion with a certain degree of coulance. Enter this debate in the constant awareness that our political and economic interests in a strong Europe are enormous. Please have a reflection on this on the part of the cabinet. Mr President, so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u165	I hear Mr Van Kesteren at least, that is what I hear, but I would like to clarify: 'The British are going out. A huge amount of extra money is needed, but, cabinet, make sure you get out, no matter what you have to pay extra." Is that a reasonable translation of what Mr Van Kesteren said?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u166	I would describe it as a rough translation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u167	But you say we're just paying.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u168	No, I'm not saying that. I say, "Let's have a little bit of a discussion with a little bit of a coulance." That is to say, do not go to Brussels with the idea of 'I failed if I have to pay more'. In my view, you always have to weigh what it costs and what it gets. I sometimes have the impression that we think purely in terms of 'it costs money, so it is not right'. That's what I'm saying. We need Europe for our economy and we need Europe for future foreign policy. I know that you are not a fan of Europe, but I am, and I think that at some point you should not look at the costs too rigidly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u169	Mr Van Kesteren knows all too well with his extensive experience in business, I think that if you say something like'strong enough coulance', you will be presented with the bill double and cross-checked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u170	Well, I don't know. We have a very competent Minister for Finance, who is also known for an attitude which is not very gentle when it comes to the negotiations in Europe. We're not going there with someone you think is gonna give it away. It is precisely for this reason that I am giving him the opinion that we should discuss this in a certain way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u171	Mr. Van Strien, the third and last for lunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u172	I'll get back to you this afternoon, Mr. Chairman. Thanks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u173	A short one, Mr. Vendrik. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u174	One question to Mr Van Kesteren, since he makes such an explicit plea for trust, social dialogue and connection with the cabinet polder, I would just like to say briefly. During the General Political Reviews, the chairman of the CDA Group spoke in very different terms about how the Climate Agreement was going. Words in which I don't recognize myself at all, but then the question. Is that a model for joint action, the social model with the involvement of all kinds of stakeholders and the cabinet, exactly as was the case with the Climate Agreement? Are we gonna go on like that, or do we have to go on like that? How am I supposed to see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u175	I don't think that's the way it's supposed to be. In my view, the only way to solve these problems is to consult those involved, under the leadership of the cabinet. That is the way we have achieved many things in this country and we must continue to do so. By the way, you can imagine that I read Mr Knapen's speech very carefully on a number of occasions, and I have not been able to see that difference which you are noticing. But that could be me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u176	Thank you, Mr. Van Kesteren.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-3.u177	I'm suspending the meeting for lunch.
