ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on legislative proposal 35084, amendment of some laws and provision for the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, i.e. the Brexit Collecting Act. I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As you have already indicated that you will be speaking this afternoon on yesterday's events, I shall now remain silent. Mr. Chairman. Many remember Margaret Thatcher's legendary words: "I want my money back!" She stood for British interests. She stood her ground and the story goes that the inflexible Thatcher brought the German Prime Minister Helmut Schmidt to such despair that he began to throw furniture. So he's a bad loser. Now the British people have spoken through a referendum: we want our freedom back. An abomination for the European political elite, with D66 first. Perhaps D66 wanted to prevent British scenes as a vassal of the European Union and, as a precaution, had their own minister flush the consultative referendum down the drain. But the British people did get a referendum and seized the opportunity to shape their aversion to surrendering sovereignty to the Brussels dictators and turn them into a Brexit. Instead of the European Union respecting the wishes of the British people and saving what can be saved, all supporters of the Brexit were spoiled by the President of the European Council Donald Tusk for a special place in hell. In doing so, part of the British people and part of the democratically elected representatives of the people in the European Purgatory were wiped out. The President of the European Commission, Juncker, did a bit more. He tried to ridicule the British Prime Minister May, not by being embarrassed by crowing her hair, but by smilingly doing a dance. These images went all over the world, in which he not only mocked himself and the whole of the European Union, but scoffed the British Prime Minister and the British people. It is completely ignored that the United Kingdom is still one of the leading countries in world politics. It would demonstrate courage and respect for democracy to take the voice of the British people seriously and move on to a scenario of an orderly Brexit. Because no matter how you turn it, the United Kingdom is still the fifth economy in the world. Surely it is too crazy for words that, as a European Union, you are foaming off the whole world for trade agreements and throwing up a little ball to mess even with Africa into the free trade area, and then making your British neighbor miserable? Apparently, the European Union has more with the American warlords than with the British lords. Mr. Chairman. Meanwhile, an image of chaos is being told as soon as the Brexit is a fact. But the question is: will we stop trading with the United Kingdom? Isn't that what we did for the very existence of the European Union? The port head of Calais has already indicated, no major problems to be expected with a hard Brexit. Apparently, the American oneliner "everyone loves your dollar" also goes on this, only now it concerns British pounds. In fact, the European Union prefers not to see the United Kingdom leave. Even Commissioner Frans Timmermans says to hang out if the British stay. As a true socialist, he loves spending other people's money and, like the rest of the European elite, wants to keep the British net contributor within the European family. In addition, the United Kingdom also plays a major role in the field of security, including defence and counter-terrorism. To force the British to their knees, the EU is playing the filthy trump card of the backstop included in the Treaty of Accession. This makes an orderly retirement very difficult. In fact, the British only get two dishes on the menu: either a hard Brexit or until the EU falls apart, trapped in a customs union. The latter is caused by the border with Northern Ireland which remains open until a trade agreement has been concluded with which all Member States must agree. There is a good chance that Ireland will simply become a pawn on the Brussels chessboard and persevere in a veto that it can use in a treaty to be concluded between the European Union, the United Kingdom and the poor Irish people who love euros. Apparently, the European Union is terrified of a successful Brexit and that the spark of freedom passes over to other Member States. It is striking that the draft law before us clearly reflects commercial interests so that measures are taken to get them through the Brexit as best they can. I refer, among other things, to the interests of TenneT, the Gasunie and Fluxys that transport Russian gas. This is in contrast to cases that affect part of the British and part of the Dutch citizens directly in their pockets, such as pension agreements between the British and the Dutch. Here the European Union is lagging behind in exercising its shared competence. Apparently, the European Union has less regard for its citizens than it often does for them. Because of this dawdling and the principle of loyalty, the government is embedded in the European straitjacket and both the British and the Dutch are at the mercy of Brussels. In short, the minister is stuck and has become a puppet of Brussels. In turn, the Minister will put Parliament with his back against the wall with a ministerial arrangement. With Article X in hand, the Minister is given the power to make provisions by means of an AMvB or a ministerial arrangement, which may depart from the law without restrictions on the policy field within which those provisions lie. These would include measures necessary for, inter alia, the proper implementation of a binding EU legal act. Are these existing binding EU acts or also new binding EU acts? I'd like a response from the Minister. Measures would also be needed to prevent unacceptable and irreversible consequences. The question is what is unacceptable. This can be interpreted in different ways. All this applies both to a hard Brexit and to withdrawal with a withdrawal agreement up to six months after the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union. Mr. Chairman. If the Parliament rejects a provision in the form of a ministerial arrangement already in force, it may be withdrawn by means of a withdrawal arrangement. If one of the Chambers objects, the ministerial rules shall be withdrawn within one week. On paper, it seems that Parliament controls the authorisations and authorisations to be granted under this scheme. However, in practice there is a gap from the entry into force of the ministerial regime to the moment of the withdrawal of the scheme. This puts Parliament out of play. During that period, the door is open to the granting of authorisations and authorisations which are not carried by elected representatives of the people. Authorisations and authorisations already granted will be difficult to reverse due to the level of confidence of interested parties during the period of validity of the scheme. For example, the Minister can roll out the Brussels agenda outside Parliament. I'm rounding up. The British people have spoken out for a Brexit, and we must respect that choice no matter what you think. The behaviour of the European Union and this cabinet does not show respect for democracy. Again it becomes painfully clear that the Netherlands is at the mercy of the dictators of Brussels. The PVV Group therefore certainly wants to vote on this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mrs Faber. I give the floor to Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u5	Mr. Chairman. Today we are speaking in this house for the first time during a whole debate on the Brexit, which has been unfolding in our eyes for several years. My group regrets the reasons for the UK and notes that the British political class has made a mess of it, but we also believe that we must continue to recognise that there were real concerns about the British voice before leaving the EU. The Member States and national parliaments have been overwhelmed by a superstate European Union. In doing so, we are all partly responsible for the fact that trust in the European Union, in European cooperation, is seriously undermined not only on the other side of the North Sea, but also in large parts of the population in the rest of the EU. Hopefully we, and also this government, will learn this lesson from the Brexit. Because with another EU, it would not have been the unnecessarily complicated, far-reaching, unifying and alienating EU that we now have, but a more flexible EU that would have left more room for national variation, perhaps the Brexit would have been preventable and we would not have been here today. But now we are standing here and a no-deal scenario is still a very real possibility, albeit probably after delay. No one knows how it is going to end now, but what we do know is that the Brexit already announced itself in autumn 2016 with the only referendum so far and that two years of negotiations have been held between the United Kingdom and the EU-27. In that respect, it's no surprise that Brexit is coming now. In any case, we are now dealing with this proposal with inappropriate urgency called "Collection Law Brexit." And there is one thing that says that as a surprise came, namely that in Brexit's risks, even with an exit agreement, the government apparently sees reason for giving itself powers for a six-month period in the original legislative proposal, even for a whole year, which the Council of State has also considered to be very undesirable. Mr. Chairman. I see my time is starting to run, so I've got a few more minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u6	Or I'll take two minutes off. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u7	Whoa, whoa. You're in a good mood today. We, as the SP Group, naturally welcome the fact that the government is preparing for the Brexit and what it means for the Netherlands, taking into account all kinds of possible scenarios. However, the House of Representatives has also noticed that public departmental reviews and detailed analysis of scenarios, especially in the case of a no deal, are missing. In a motion, the House of Representatives called on the Minister to publish it. So what is the situation with that, we ask the Minister. This legislative proposal also contains a number of things that we say it is logical and right that they should now be dealt with in this way. But then there is Article X, which states that everything that this bill does not yet regulate within the framework of the Brexit and which we cannot yet foresee that we will still have to settle, can be settled immediately and, if necessary, by de facto ministerial decree, which may derogate from the laws and regulations in force. It is for this reason that the Brexit Collection Act is also called the Brexit Emergency Act. So emergency breaks the law, and that's settled by law. But what kind of emergency? This is not specified in the whole legislative proposal or in the explanatory memorandum. In the explanatory statement, the term "emergency" does not exist at all. Isn't that at least strange? Can the Minister explain to us why he didn't think this was necessary? In this respect, we simply think that this bill is ill-founded. In the written answer to our question for a further definition of "emergency," the Minister states that "emergency arises when an undesirable situation is to be prevented or terminated and the existing ways of making a provision are not sufficient to achieve this within the time limit required by the circumstances of the particular case." Let these words get through to you just as well. There is therefore a need if there is an undesirable situation that cannot be avoided using the regular democratic procedures. But there is so much undesirable, for example, I mention just one thing: the enormous workload in the public sector or the division of society, and so on. These are undesirable situations that have arisen years ago and have been going on for years. So the best we can do is reverse it. I think it is a rather vague and very broad definition of "emergency." It is not what I think of when I say "emergency": undesirable. In the reply, the Minister also refers to the criteria of unacceptable and irreversible consequences. This in itself sounds more like "emergency": unacceptable and irreversible. But when you read the definition of these two concepts in the answer, it still sounds very different and this minister seems to have a very broad definition of "emergency." As far as we are concerned, that is not reassuring. The government itself states that "unacceptable" is a subjective concept and calls for a political judgment and that it is up to the government to give it. As far as we are concerned, this calls for a great deal of confidence on the part of Parliament in relation to this or any future government. Especially when we read that "unacceptable" is defined for this minister as "a situation that differs from what would be most desirable in the circumstances." Really? Does the Minister really believe that, as we ask him, 'unacceptable' is a situation that differs from the most desirable. So anything less than ideal is unacceptable? Yeah, you can call it a subjective concept, but I think this is a lot of stretching, and it's certainly not what most people at home think about when they say "unacceptable." In any case, the subjectivity of me and the Minister is very different. So we must leave it to the government's subjectivity to determine what is 'unacceptable', but we have been warned: for the government anything that is not acceptable is unacceptable from the most desirable. As far as my group is concerned, this is an unacceptable definition of 'unacceptable'. But why, so some might wonder, would you opt for the less desirable if the most desirable is also to be realized? The point is, of course, that here it is also the minister who decides what is most desirable and what is not, and on this basis can make an emergency provision which is both different from existing legislation and regulations and is not submitted to Parliament in advance. The question is therefore whether this is acceptable and whether such a heavy substance is proportionate. Nowhere does the Minister consider the severity of the need in relation to the weight of the administrative means to be used. We would like to hear how the Minister actually sees this. Mr. Chairman. In this way, we are left with a legislative proposal which gives the government far-reaching powers in the face of emergencies, without the concept of "emergency" being properly defined anywhere. The criteria of 'unrecoverable' and 'unacceptable', which were added only later, are so vague and broad that they do not impose any substantive restrictions on the far-reaching authorization given by Article X to each individual minister. The government has deliberately chosen not to draw up a restrictive list of possible emergencies, i.e. situations which could justify the use of Article X, on the grounds that this is the so-called "unknown unknowns." Yes, of course, there are always those in life, the future is difficult to predict and there can always be things that no one could have imagined beforehand. However, as Professor Voermans, Professor of State Law in Leiden, explained very clearly in the discussion he had with members of the House of Representatives on this bill: "The rules relating to our constitutional law have been made up to ensure that even if it is necessary and urgent we still act according to the rules." The question is whether this requires prior legislation which gives the Minister such wide powers, just in case, because the reverse of not making a list of areas and situations in which Article X can and can be applied, is that this article can therefore be used in any conceivable and unthinkable field and in any conceivable and unimaginable situation. Can the Minister confirm that any minister in any situation and in any policy area, as long as it appears from the Brexit, who considers it necessary, can make use of the powers conferred on individual ministers by Article X? Can the Minister give just one example from the Dutch legal history in which there has ever been such a wide-ranging competence, which is limited only in time, namely six months, but is also unlimited for every minister? Are we not giving a carte blanche without precedent, but thereby creating a dangerous precedent? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The first question is, therefore, whether the need for emergency aid is justified and, if so, what kind of emergency we can expect. The second question, which is at least as important, is whether, if such a need is to arise, it is necessary and proportionate to create such far-reaching powers for the government by this means. Even in times of need, and precisely then, we will have to uphold the principles of our democratic rule of law. Democracy is for good and bad times. I would almost say that democracy is a delicate vase. It could just break if you let go of it. What is democracy? At its core, it means that the people control themselves. Government for the people but also government by the people. In the Netherlands, we have shaped this through parliamentary democracy, which means that the people indirectly govern themselves through elected representatives of the people. They are therefore in our order not only the controller of power, but also legislative power, co-legislator. Important principles are the legality principle and the primacy of the legislator. This means that the administration of this country, and all the rules it lays down, must result from a decision of the legislator, the government and the States-General, as laid down in Article 81 of the Constitution. This principle, as confirmed by this Chamber on several occasions, must be interpreted as meaning that both chambers must decide on the central elements of our legal system and be able to debate it in public, the pros and cons. The government may, at most on behalf of the legislation adopted by Parliament, elaborate the details. Such a delegated power must therefore always be very limited under the rules of state law. A blank delegation must never, therefore, be allowed to go against the primacy of the legislator as the central principle of our parliamentary democracy. I assume the Minister agrees with that, but just to be safe, I'm just gonna ask you so that we can understand each other. Mr. Chairman. In my group's view, Article X is at odds with these principles. The basis of delegation is not just a little broad here, but almost comprehensive. The Minister may, on the basis of Article X of this bill, derogate from the law by ministerial regulation in any area conceivable and in any situation, with the factually only criterion that he considers necessary in the circumstances. It can also be done by general measure of governance, and the possibility of parliamentary appraisal is still available in advance, as we read in the third paragraph of Article X. However, this raises the question as to why it cannot be done directly through formal legislation. I'd like a response from the Minister. But in the case of "emergency necessity," again an unfinished concept in which the judgment of what is urgent or not by definition is only up to the minister, this can be done by ministerial arrangement. So it is not even presented to colleagues in the Council of Ministers, nor to the Council of State. Can the Minister explain again why this is not contrary to the primacy of the legislator? It seems obvious to me that, if Parliament can only recite the government after the legislation has already been in force by way of derogation from the law, then there is indeed a reduction in the role of parliament as legislator.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u8	Mr Van Apeldoorn, of course, focuses on the defender of the legislative proposal, but I am also touched as a fellow Member of this Chamber when he is so puristic about the primacy of the legislator. I would like to put it to him, is he not aware of all the emergency services we have in existing legislation? In the Law on Financial Supervision, the Law on Medicines, the Water Act, to take emergency measures in quite a few situations immediately and by decree?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u9	Yes, I am, of course, aware that emergency facilities are included in certain laws. The laws you mentioned are familiar to me. The main difference is that these laws cover emergency services in one area, namely that specific law which has been stated in advance: in order to implement this law properly, it may be necessary for certain provisions to be made in order to implement that law properly. That is different from a virtually blank delegation, in which you say: in all conceivable and unthinkable situations that might arise from a Brexit in this case, in any conceivable and unthinkable area, the Minister, even though per ministerial arrangement, can actually rule the country and Parliament can only say something about it afterwards. I call that a situation in which Parliament is excluded. And I think there is a difference in principle from the examples mentioned by Mr Postema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u10	It could certainly be a difference, because that is why we are dealing with this law today. However, I would like to appeal to Parliament's primatrole. However, I would like to challenge you once again to explain where that role is in this emergency legislation, in the legislation that is already in place. Then where's that primaatrol?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u11	The primacy of the legislator exists...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u12	"... in those laws, in those emergency laws," Mr. Postema adds without using the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In general terms, the primacy of the legislator lies in the fact that the legislator, i.e. the government and the States General, decides on the central elements of the legislation. This has also been the case in this case, and these are central elements of this legislation, which we can say: 'These are the broad lines of the law. In that case, unforeseen situations may arise; in order to properly implement the law, it may be possible to do so in lower regulation than in that way." That is something else, and I shall make that even clearer in the rest of my speech than you say: lower legislation allows us to actually violate higher legislation in areas that have not yet been identified. Mr. Chairman. I will continue my speech. It seems obvious to me that if Parliament can only recite the government afterwards, there is indeed a reduction in the role of parliament as co-legislator. It cannot then be discussed in advance and publicly by Parliament. There shall be no public weighting of the measure. The House of Representatives cannot amend it. There is no elected representative of the people who is given the opportunity to say: perhaps this is not such a good idea, perhaps we should not do it, at least not in this way. I really wonder, also given his previous answer in the House of Representatives, whether the Minister considers this to be a problem at all. I mean, we can conclude that he doesn't find these objections sufficiently serious, but does he see the objections? Has this even been a point of discussion, a point of consideration when making this bill? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. In the case of a ministerial arrangement, Parliament is therefore out of the question. Thanks to an amendment by the House of Representatives, one of the two Chambers may object afterwards, and within one day of being placed in the Official Journal. And then the scheme has to be repealed. That sounds nice, but it only stays afterwards and so Parliament does not play the normal role of co-legislator here. What does ex post control look like in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u14	I was just thinking about Mr Postema's intervention and your answer to it, because of course you have a point to make. But shouldn't the assessment of this scheme take into account that the remedy you are discussing later in your text also brings the balance? The delegation's powers are wider, but the emergency brake is also wider and more effective than in other legislation which has made this possible without the Chamber being able to raise its finger and say: this should not be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u15	Yes, I thank Mr Backer for this question. The emergency brake is present, thanks to an amendment by the House of Representatives. We are pleased with that. This is without prejudice to the fact that there is no prior involvement of Parliament. That is a point of principle. For us, then, the question is: is that compensated by the emergency brake? Our answer is no. There is compensation, but it is insufficient, because the role of Parliament as co-legislator is still severely restricted. If Mr Backer will allow me, I shall now continue my speech, because that is exactly what I am making.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u16	But Mr Ester has a question first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u17	I listened very carefully to Mr Van Apeldoorn. I have to say that it is a bit of a theoretical argument, while of course it is very practical situations that can have a huge impact, but let me abstract from that. Is Mr Van Apeldoorn still coming to the judgment of the Council of State which reached us at the end of last week? The Council of State has said, weighing everything up, that it is very acceptable. If I remember correctly, the Council has even said that it is necessary to have that authorisation decision. Can you respond once again to the judgment of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u18	Certainly, I say to Mr Ester, but I would still like to respond to your first comment. You say that it is a theoretical argument, but I would say that it is a basic argument. You say that we are dealing here with very specific matters, but the point is that we do not know what specific matters are involved and what could possibly be regulated by ministerial regulation. That is why we have this point of principle with regard to the primacy of the legislator. Of course, we have taken note of the opinions of the Council of State, which we take very seriously at all times. That does not mean that we must always agree and agree with the Council of State. This also applies to other groups in this House. We note that both in its first opinion and in its second opinion to this Chamber, the Council of State concluded, in response to questions from this House, that the powers proposed are, in principle, at odds with the primacy of the legislator and can therefore be regarded as highly undesirable. But Mr Ester rightly points out that the Council of State has also concluded that in this case, given the unpredictability of the consequences of the Brexit, it may be necessary or justified. We do not agree with that last conclusion. In the rest of my speech, I have already said something about this. I shall try to explain why we do not agree. Because the Council of State, like this government, fails to justify what kind of emergency it might be and fails to at least convince us that such a need could be that it could justify these powers outside normal democratic procedures. And that's the jumping point for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u19	However, I note that the opinion of the SP Group differs from the opinion of the Council of State which says that the authorisation decision is necessary. The Council takes a very basic and well-balanced position in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u20	That observation is correct. We come up with our own balanced position of principle which, in that sense, departs from the conclusion of the Council of State. I will continue my speech. Once such a ministerial arrangement is in place and is implemented with the creation of rights of stakeholders and all, it will not be so easy in practice for a majority of either Chambers to say, in the event of strong doubts about the measure, that it will have to be reversed within a week. Besides, it may be too late. The possible suffering resulting from a wrong kind of ministerial arrangement has already taken place. I would like to hear the Minister's views on this. Does he see the difference in principle between prior involvement and subsequent involvement? If he does see this, I am surprised at the ease with which he goes about it in his written reply. I'd like a response. The primacy of the legislator also depends on the principle that higher legislation should not allow lower legislation to conflict with higher legislation. I am talking about the motion adopted unanimously here in 2006 by the European Parliament and by former PvdA senator Erik Jurgens in the history books of Dutch state law. But this is not just history, this motion is also a living right of state. The motion is the result of a debate held in this Chamber on the grounds of delegation in the implementation of European directives since 1998. This Chamber has repeatedly confirmed the importance of the legality principle and the primacy of the legislator, even after the adoption of the Jurgens motion. This means that we are not supposed to say to the government: you can issue rules yourself without prior involvement by ministerial decree and in any field, even if those rules are contrary to existing laws. Old senator Jurgens put it very clearly at the time. "Every citizen's binding rule must be based somewhere on a decision of the legislator, the government and the States General. An important starting point is that this should not be undermined by blank delegation. It undermines the position of the legislator in a formal sense, in which case by himself." In the same debate, another senator also expressed the concern that, and I quote, "the constitutional position of Parliament as co-legislator is undermined when a lower regulation can derogate from a law in a formal sense or when that lower regulation opens the possibility of even putting the law into effect in a formal sense," according to the then judicial spokesperson of the VVD-First Chamber Group, our current President. Now, Article X of the present legislative proposal makes possible exactly what our President was so concerned about at the time. I don't think we should want to go through that as a First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u21	I will certainly not try to speak for the then spokesperson of the VVD, because she herself can. However, Mr Van Apeldoorn also knows that the position of former senator Jurgens in principle had broad support in this Chamber. The follow-up discussions also looked at the practical state of play. This Chamber has also made it very clear that there can always be emergency situations. The Regulatory Instructions even include a separate article, also with broad support from this House, to make this possible. You are making a very basic point of view here, and I am also thinking very wisely of a situation in which additional provisions have been made. However, you forget to mention that. Would you like to respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u22	Certainly, I say to Mr Postema. But if you will allow me, Mr President, I will continue my speech, in which I answer exactly the question I have just asked. So I haven't forgotten him, but the answer is in my next paragraph. If he doesn't find the answer satisfactory, I'd be happy to hear it. I will continue my speech. I do not think that we should want to see this as the First Chamber and that we should not, as Mr Jurgens said, undermine our own constitutional position in this way. The Minister now states in his reply that, although Article X would be contrary to the principles laid down in the motion for a resolution, it would not have been possible to make an exception to the rules for emergency situations in designation 2.31 for the purpose of drawing up the instructions contained in the motion for a resolution. However, as Professor Voermans has convincingly argued in his factsheet for the purposes of the present bill in the House of Representatives, this exception, I quote Professor Voerman's "not an open delegation, but only a derogation in a clearly defined emergency situation." The example here is Article 35 of the Emergency Financial Traffic Act. In my opinion, Mr Postema referred to this just now. But in the case of the proposal that we are discussing here today, there is nothing precise about this point, not even in the explanatory statement. Furthermore, the explanatory statement on designation 2.31 states that, I quote: 'in the event of emergencies, disasters, war situations or other threats to security may be considered'. These are the words of the Justice Department. Is the Minister also considering the unforeseen consequences of the Brexit? So do we really wait for this calamity? In any case, it is quite different from the wording of the Minister's choice of unacceptable consequences, defined as "less than the most desirable situation." That, I ask the Minister, can you really not call 'emergency' with the best will in the world? If the Minister really believes that Article X is covered by the exception mentioned in the designation 2.31 for the implementation of the Jurgens motion, he must, as far as our group is concerned, come up with a better story and do his homework again. Mr. Chairman. Our group is still surprised that until now the Minister has not been able to outline any possible emergency scenario and that he has not only not been able to give a list of possible emergencies to which Article X can be applied, but cannot even give hypothetical examples. Well, then, one, namely, and I quote, 'when living goods or perishable goods are in danger of being lost'. There would then be irreversible and unacceptable consequences, and hence urgency, and hence the need to act through ministerial decree. The example of cattle on the quay also came to the House of Representatives. Is this really the only example the Minister can think of? Does he actually think it's a strong example? Mr. Chairman. Should we then justify the instrument of the ministerial regulation in breach of the legality principle and the primacy of the legislator? Is that such an emergency, which justifies an exception to the Jurgens motion? Should we be sidelined as a parliament for this? We don't think so. The pressing question is whether the existing laws and regulations do not provide sufficient relief in this respect. In our written contribution, we have also asked this question. Could the Dutch Food and Food Authority, for example, not just act here within the current legal framework and remove live cattle from that quay? You don't need a Brexit Emergency Act for that, do you? Unfortunately, however, this question has not been answered. So let's ask him again. In such a scenario, is the NVWA not simply competent to act? The problem, as far as our group is concerned, is that the Minister is calling for urgency and urgency, but can never make that happen and comes only with this example. For real disasters there is also all the state emergency law, in particular the Co-ordination Act exceptions. The Minister rightly states that this does not apply in this case, because it is aimed at maintaining external or internal safety. He's not at stake with the Brexit. There will therefore be no such need, but obviously it is possible, even if it comes to a Brexit with a exit agreement, to such an extent that the fundamental principles of our democratic rule of law can be set aside, or at least that an exception can be made. Our group is not convinced of that. Mr. Chairman. If there were any emergency situations, it would be very doubtful whether you could just settle it with the States-General instead of outside the parliament. If we have to, and we have seen this before, we can adopt a law within a day. If we have to, we can meet on any day of the week, even on Saturdays. If necessary, the Council of State can also act very quickly and even faster than it has done in this case. If necessary, such a law can then be implemented retroactively, but then we, as a parliament, have been able to deal with it. Then we have been able to observe our role as co-legislator. The Minister and this government seem to think that we as a parliament will not be able to do so. Why does the Minister think that? Isn't that a motion of censure towards the States General?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u23	Mr. Chairman. I would like to come back to the emergency provision proposed by the SP. If I understand correctly, you say: if there is a situation in which the current laws and regulations do not provide for, then the NVWA should be given the right to intervene. Does this mean that a situation is being created in which the NVWA is allowed to use powers outside the scope of the legislation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u24	No, then Mr Schaap completely misunderstood me. It was a question to the Minister, a question that we had also asked in writing, but which we did not receive an answer to. We asked whether, as we suspect, the NVWA is not legally competent here, on the basis of the current laws and regulations within the current legal frameworks. Our point was: the Minister cannot give an example of a possible emergency situation that could justify, for example, the rule by ministerial arrangement. The only example given in the written exchange with the Chamber is that of live cattle and perishable goods on the quay. Then our question is whether we can get out of our way and are adequately equipped with the current legislation and regulations, and I refer to the example of NVWA. I'd like to hear the Minister's answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u25	As you raise this question, I am actually curious as to how the SP imagines the situation. There's an unknown going on. The current rules do not provide for this, but there is a need to intervene. Then I get the feeling that you say: the Minister should not intervene, but let the NVWA do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u26	I do not know at all whether the current rules do not provide for this. That's our question. In his answer to questions from GroenLinks himself, the Minister says that in most cases "b" and then, for example, animal deaths are sufficient under current laws and regulations. In my view, too, and in the case of the example, I believe that the living have and the perishable goods on the quay which the Minister gave in the House of Representatives and in his answer to our questions. It seems to me that we can do with the current legislation, the current laws and regulations and that, for example, an authority such as the Dutch Food and Consumer Protection Authority can act appropriately. If that's not the case, I'd like to hear it from the Minister. Then I'd like to hear it specified. That is the question we had put.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u27	I fear that we will end up in a serious catch 22 with Mr Van Apeldoorn. There must be examples that show that the need is so high that there is a need to intervene per ministerial arrangement, but the first thing that happens, of course, when a good example is mentioned, is the reproaching question of why this is not covered by this collectible law. It is also true that, if you yourself find that it is such a serious matter that it cannot be resolved by the Minister, but only by this Chamber, you are in danger of assuming too much responsibility for this Chamber, which it cannot live up to. It's easy for you to say: we've approved something before in one day. Well, those are often things that were literally about one rule. If things are a little more complicated, would you, as a Chamber, take responsibility for responding only to that kind of unknown unknowns when we have given it our blessing here in the majority?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u28	I would like to say to Mr Postema that, first of all, I do not see that catch-22 logic. I don't understand what you mean by that. In a more general sense, you say: 'the Minister will set a good example'. No, the minister isn't setting a good example. That is exactly my argument. I see Mr Postema saying something from the benches, but I cannot hear what he is saying here. We do not think it is a good example as a group, because it is not clear that the current legislation and regulations would not be sufficient. Our question is correct: can the Minister make up his mind or at least justify the possibility that the Brexit crisis might arise, which would justify such far-reaching powers? We believe that the Minister has not so far shown us this convincingly, because he describes 'emergency' very vague and very broad, and if he gives a concrete example, we think that is an example that does not convince us and that does not seem very strong to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u29	However, let's get back to the current practice of emergency services in existing laws and regulations, such as the Financial Supervision Act. Thankfully, emergency facilities have been included in that. If you ask the Minister to indicate when there is such an emergency provision, then of course the first thing that happens is that this Chamber asks: why is it not in the law? So it's really about unforeseen circumstances. That's the basis of Article X. And my catch 22 is that you ask the minister to give examples of those unknown unknowns. That is by definition not possible, so that would be crazy. But if the minister is forced to do so, then you are ridiculing it and you are saying: yes, but that is a bad example of what we could have solved with existing legislation and regulations. That's actually the catch 22 I'm referring to. When will it be good for the SP?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u30	What matters to us is the primacy of the legislator. It is possible that we may have examples of some of these laws, as you yourself say: there may be situations arising from this law or those arising from this law, in which the minister must act. But once again, these are strictly defined emergencies. There's no question of that right now. This is a very broad wording, in which it is said that there is a need if there is a situation in which something is happening that differs from the most desirable. We do not find that convincing. Our question is also this: can you now justify the possibility of situations happening, you also call it unknown unknowns where there really is no other way, because the need is so high and it is so urgent that the Minister acts in this way? As far as we are concerned, this is in no way convincingly made clear by the Minister. Returning to your earlier question, do we not overestimate the role of Parliament, the capacity of the States-General? I should like to ask Mr Postema again: do you not underestimate the capacity of our Parliament? I think, once again, that all kinds of emergencies may occur as a result of the Brexit or as a result of whatever, in theory. We can't predict the future. At the moment, on the basis of how the Minister now motivates the law, we are not convinced that such emergencies could be caused by the Brexit, even in a no-deal scenario, which could justify these far-reaching powers. But we invite the Minister to come up with a further specification. If that is not the case and there are unexpected situations, then I do not see why we would not be able to meet within a day and to deliberate and decide on them on the basis of what is being presented by the Minister. Mr. Chairman. If you'll allow me, I'll continue my speech. As you know, Mr President, we as the First Chamber should first of all assess the quality of the proposed legislation. Well, from that perspective, in the opinion of our group, Article X of this bill is raging on all sides. This article is at odds with the primacy of the legislator enshrined in the Constitution, a central principle of our parliamentary democracy, while the claimed exception to 'emergency situations' lacks a solid basis or is so broad and vaguely defined that it does not convince. We are therefore submitting the next motion in the first time, so that the Minister has time to think about it. The President shall: Members Van Apeldoorn, Lintmeijer, Teunissen, Overbeek, Kox, Meijer, Reuten and Gerkens proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Article X of the bill gives far-reaching regulatory powers to our Minister, which may derogate from the rule by or under the law;]] [[Whereas the principle of legality and the primacy of the legislator are core principles of our democratic system;]] [[Whereas, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, the adoption of laws is carried out jointly by the Government and the States-General, and that therefore also a derogation from the law in a formal sense should be a decision of both;]] [[Whereas the primacy of the legislator also implies, as expressed in the motion for a resolution adopted unanimously by this Chamber, that a delegation of legislative power by law to a lower regulator who may not authorize lower regulator to deviate from the law in a formal sense;]] [[Whereas the powers proposed under Article X are at odds with the principles set out above and with the motion for a resolution of the European Parliament and of the Council;]] [[Whereas, in order to restrict the primacy of the legislature and the exception to the rule contained in the Jurgens motion, the Government relies on the possible need arising from the withdrawal of the United Kingdom, in this case on the grounds of exceptional circumstances set out in Note 2.31;]] [[Considers that the precise consequences of the UK's withdrawal, in particular in the case of a no-deal scenario, are difficult to predict but that the legislative proposal and the explanatory memorandum do not specify what kind of emergency this could lead to, or justify how this could lead to emergencies which would justify the far-reaching powers proposed by Article X;]] [[Considers that in the absence of a further definition of emergencies and emergencies, Article X gives a blank delegation to the Minister, thereby undermining the primacy of the legislator;]] [[calls on the Government to specify the emergency situations to which it considers Article X to apply and not to allow Article X to enter into force before submitting them to both Chambers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35084-H]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u31	I tried to listen carefully to that very long text. What does this motion say other than that this law must be rejected?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u32	The law contains eleven articles. We believe that most of the articles, or indeed all the other articles of that law, are generally correct, correct and necessary. We're talking about Article X. It is quite conceivable that this law should be adopted, but that we as a Chamber should declare that Article X cannot be applied. The law also states in Article XI that several parts of it may enter into different dates by royal decree until the Minister has returned to both chambers with a further specification of the concepts of "emergency" and "emergency" which would justify the far-reaching powers laid down in Article X.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u33	Is this motion not a disguised amendment to this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u34	This motion requests on behalf of the signatories and, if adopted, on behalf of the Chamber, that the Minister return to both Chambers. You can give it the qualification you want, but it is our right to ask the Minister to come back to this jumping point for us and then submit it to the two Chambers, and the Minister has the opportunity not to allow Article X to enter into force for as long as it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u35	Mr. Schaap, finally at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u36	I'll try again. So if the Minister doesn't amend his own law, you're going to vote against it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u37	I am not going to anticipate how we are going to vote, but for us this motion is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u38	I understand Mr. Van Apeldoorn is very critical of Article X. So are we. We don't want that either. What if the motion is passed? The Minister may dismiss a motion. You're supposed to send the minister back for a novelle, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u39	I would first like to await the Minister's reaction to this motion. I think this motion is very clear in its operative part. We're gonna see what other groups think about that, and first we're gonna see what the minister thinks about it. It is conceivable that the Minister should come forward with a response to this motion which would satisfy us in that sense and that a novelle would not be necessary, but I would first like to leave the answer to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u40	Then it looks a bit like windowdressing, doesn't it, or do I misunderstand?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u41	No. Mrs Faber misunderstands that. It is not a windowdressing, because the motion calls very explicitly for Article X, which we now have to do, not to be put into effect as long as the Minister has not returned to both chambers with a list of clear criteria on the basis of which one could say: this is an emergency that would justify these far-reaching powers. Then, as a Chamber, we can make our judgement on this. I think that's not just windowdressing. Mr. Chairman. I will conclude my speech, with your permission. As a parliament, we should not be so out of line, not even with what the government calls 'a major change in the system as the Brexit'. Above all, let us have confidence in the strength of our parliamentary democracy, even in the event of disaster and urgency. Let us rely on our own ability to act and, if necessary, speed of action, rather than abandoning our role as co-legislator and saying to the government: do what you think is right and necessary, and we will look at it afterwards. Let us not give ourselves such a licence of inability. Instead, let us fully adhere to the constitutional principles of our parliamentary democracy which we, as the First Chamber, so cherished: the principle of legality and the primacy of the legislator. Let the Brexit, with all its negative consequences, not be an excuse to create a dangerous precedent by temporarily restricting the power of parliament. Although we very much doubt that the Minister can change our opinion on Article X, we look forward, as always, to his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u42	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. I give the floor to Mr Postema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u43	Mr. Chairman. Following the United Kingdom's call for Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union, the EU Treaties will no longer apply to the UK from the date of entry into force of the withdrawal agreement or, where there is no such agreement, from 30 March 2019, unless the European Council, with the agreement of the UK, unanimously decides to extend this period. Among other things, the draft withdrawal agreement of 14 November 2018 agreed on a transitional period, namely that the whole of the EU acquis will continue to apply to the UK for the most part until 1 January 2021. In case this or an amended withdrawal agreement is not unexpectedly accepted and no extension of the deadline has been agreed, the UK shall cease to be a member of the EU by 30 March 2019 and shall be considered a third country. In the latter situation, the WTO rules are the basis for trade relations between the two countries and also multilateral regimes such as the conventions of the Council of Europe and the United Nations. It is clear that this is a huge restriction on traffic between the EU, including the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom. Mr. Chairman. Already on the day following the outcome of the British referendum which led to the decision to invoke Article 50, preparations have begun to manage the consequences, taking into account several scenarios. This has been done by the government, but also by the co-governments, citizens, business, civil society organisations, institutions and implementation organisations. Can the Minister give an up-to-date assessment of this? Is the Netherlands brexit prepared? Of course, preparations have also been undertaken by the EU itself, which has led to legislative proposals at EU level in parallel with the negotiations conducted by Barnier cum suis. In some cases they will be subject to the co-decision procedure, so that the European Parliament and the Council also have a say on this issue. Can the Minister provide an up-to-date state of play on this legislative process? Is the EU Brexit prepared? Can the Minister undertake to keep the Chamber proactively informed of developments in both the so-called "EU-only" legislative pathways and in the relevant co-legislative pathways? At national level, the Brexit Collecting Act is now before us. The purpose of this collective law is to provide for necessary adaptations of the Dutch legislation relating to the Brexit, whether on the basis of the withdrawal agreement or without such an agreement. To this end, it has been identified which laws need to be formally adapted or supplemented. This has shown that in many cases existing legislative frameworks offer sufficient freedom of action to be able to act quickly and adequately. This has led to a large number of planned and, where possible, preparatory measures for citizens, care, border control processes, logistics and transport, security and data traffic, market access and trade and other topics such as financial markets, tax regimes, climate, energy, fisheries, telecoms and culture. I mention this because, as far as my group is concerned, it refers to a rather careful period of preparation for this so annoying situation. True, the present proposal for a Collecting Law Brexit contains a limited number of formal legal provisions where existing legislative frameworks do not offer sufficient scope or insufficient scope. These relate to the Law on the Formal Foreign Companies, the Road Traffic Act, the Gas Act, the Act on the Approval and Implementation of the Markhan Agreement, the Act on the Protection of Original Topography of semiconductor Products, the Temporary Delegation Base on Social Security Laws, the Long-Term Care Act and the Health Insurance Act. That's a mouthful. I would like to mention them explicitly to point out that it seems that the government has also done extensive homework in this area. Ultimately, if you take it together and look at the whole Brexit process, it concerns a relatively small number of formal legislative changes and additional provisions. In addition, the Collecting Act includes an Article X, which provides for regulatory powers to make provision to ensure the smooth functioning of the withdrawal. It is a safety net clause tailored to the particular situation of the Brexit. It is therefore not a general emergency provision, but a provision tailored to the Brexit and, in fact, as specific as previous examples mentioned in this debate in terms of segmentation. This also distinguishes it from the state emergency law already available within the meaning of the Coordination Act, and, again, from the legislation adopted earlier and which has already been discussed in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u44	Mr Postema says: tailored to the Brexit. But does Mr Postema agree with me that Article X could cover any conceivable and unthinkable policy area and any conceivable and unthinkable situation? What does he think is tailored to that compared to other laws he mentions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u45	As far as I am concerned, it is tailored because it will always be about matters arising from the UK's withdrawal from the EU.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u46	I understand from his reply that Mr Postema agrees with us that this can relate to all conceivable matters, as long as they arise from the Brexit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u47	I would say that it should cover all unthinkable matters. I'm talking about Article X.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u48	Then we agree on that interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u49	As the co-ordination law is aimed at maintaining external and internal security, my group believes that the inclusion of a facility as set out in Article X of the Brexit Collection Act is appropriate. The Council of State also considers, in its further opinion requested by our Chamber, that a provision as set out in Article X is necessary; Mr Ester has already referred to it. The Council states that the great uncertainty about the process of the United Kingdom's withdrawal from the European Union and the unpredictable effects that a Brexit will have on national legislation require the exceptional provision of a legal provision as provided for in Article X, which, if necessary, allows for the rapid adoption of highly necessary provisions in derogation from a higher regime. Mr. Chairman. Effective emergency measures may be taken by general administrative measure or, if deemed necessary in view of the urgency of the provision, by ministerial arrangement. According to Article X, derogations may be made from the provisions of the law to the extent necessary for the proper implementation of a binding EU legal act in relation to the withdrawal of the UK, or to avoid unacceptable consequences. In the event of a structural deviation from the law, a legislative amendment shall be submitted as soon as possible, so that the provision is no longer necessary upon acceptance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u50	Perhaps Mr. Postema will come to that. He mentioned that, in the opinion of his group, the Minister had done his homework carefully. We think a little differently when it comes to how the Minister defines 'emergency' and 'emergency' situations. Mr Postema now refers to this and refers to the law and the explanatory statement and also to the opinion of the Council of State. Brexit could create such an emergency that this would be justified. What does Mr Postema think of the definition of "emergency" as used by the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u51	My group understands that the definition of 'emergency' will almost by definition be accompanied by the necessary abstractions, especially as regards the need arising from unforeseen circumstances. Of course, cases of real urgency are always involved in emergencies. We have also read that there is a lack of irreversibility and disproportionateness. I understand that this can be perceived as unsatisfactory, but we also understand that, given the unforeseeable nature of circumstances, there is little else to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u52	Mr Postema says that, given the circumstances, there is little to describe the concept of "need." But then let me stick to that abstraction. Mr Postema referred to irreversible and disproportionate consequences of the Minister's use of the phrase 'unacceptable'. As I said in my speech, the Minister says 'unacceptable' as: those situations which deviate from the most desirable. This would also justify the use of the ministerial regime as an instrument. Does Mr Postema agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u53	I listened very carefully to Mr Van Apeldoorn's contribution, particularly at this point where he put it in his mouth to the Minister. I didn't get it ready myself...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u54	I'm not gonna put anything in the Minister's mouth. It's a literal quote from his answer to our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u55	I say to Mr Van Apeldoorn in all honesty that I myself am not ready, hence the use of words. I await the Minister's reply in that regard. I can very well imagine that we will all be all too happy if we have adequate instruments at the time of emergencies for citizens, for animals, for cooperation, for safety, for relations with other countries and so on. Fortunately, analyses show that we already have this in existing legislation and regulations. But I wouldn't want it on my conscience if we had inadequate instruments at a time when such things would happen for our citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u56	Finally, Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u57	I wouldn't want that on my conscience either. The question is whether Article X is needed. But still a little while. Mr Postema has not yet answered my question. Perhaps he will come back later on to what he thinks of the definition of 'unacceptable' on the Minister's part. Does that give him sufficient confidence to say: yes, Minister, as far as we are concerned, you can, by way of derogation from existing legislation and regulations outside Parliament, take measures that you consider necessary without submitting them to Parliament in advance? That was my question and I have not yet received an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u58	I repeat that I do not have the Minister's specific words in place and I await his response. Mr. Chairman. In the event of a structural deviation from an existing general administrative measure introduced by ministerial rules, a draft decision shall be put into procedure as soon as possible, with the aim of amending the general administrative measure in such a way that the provision under ministerial rules is no longer necessary. In the case of a provision adopted by way of derogation from the law which is not of a structural nature, Article X provides that, in such a case, a proposal for a law approving the measure taken shall be submitted to Parliament within eight weeks. This is also possible, since such a proposal merely provides for the adoption of the appropriate measure. In the light of the written questions put by my group, the Minister has clarified what is going to happen in the event that one of the two chambers decides by majority against a general measure of governance or a ministerial arrangement, namely that the regulation in question should be withdrawn without delay. The same applies to the situation in which one of the two chambers votes by majority against a legislative proposal which provides for the amendment of the law in such a way that a provision made by a general measure of administration or a ministerial arrangement is no longer necessary. However, my group would like to know what maximum time limit the Minister has in mind, and therefore what we can assume, when there is legislation on adaptation in the event of a general measure of governance involving a structural derogation from a law and in the case of a ministerial regulation involving a structural derogation from a law or a general measure of governance. Mr. Chairman. On the basis of the above, it may be clear that the present legislative proposal is in particular procedural in nature. The changes to existing legislation are limited as such. As such, my group considers the chosen approach to be sensible. Although the necessary measures of general administration and, in particular, urgent cases will be regulated even by ministerial regulation, there is a clear obligation to provide information and clear deadlines to the parliament. The government is also perfectly clear about adjusting or reversing measures if there is no sufficient support from Parliament. Most of all, my group welcomes the proposal before us, we also consider this Chamber Brexit prepared and we look forward to the up-to-date state of the Brexit preparations. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u59	Thank you, Mr. Postema. I give the floor to Mr Lintmeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ten more days plus an unknown number of days, weeks or months to be postponed and the EU will lose a Member State for the first time: an unprecedented moment in the 60th anniversary of the EU and its predecessors. Until now, enlargement has been the parolee and there are still more countries knocking on the door than countries that want to leave. The departure of the United Kingdom brings an unprecedented spectacle. Abandoning your membership is one thing, leaving in an orderly manner turns out to be extremely complex. The British political landscape can only be seen with amazement, wonder and sometimes annoyance. The internal British division on how the Brexit should take shape turns the country into itself and leads to demand lists rather than negotiations and a lack of ability to live in the European position and vice versa. The British division is in stark contrast to the unity with which the other 27 EU Member States have conducted negotiations with the UK. That seems strong in itself, but at the same time it is sad that a outgoing Member State is needed to display more unity than ever in the EU. All in all, my group regrets the departure from the United Kingdom. The Green Left is not about the often one-sided neoliberal ideology of purely free trade and nothing else, in which both the UK and our own country have been insane in recent decades. We are at the forefront of the much broader common values that the EU must stand for: respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights. More than ever, it is important that Europe stands up for these common values. It is also important that we promote them much more to our society than we have so far been tempted to do. The international legal order and parliamentary democracy as we know it are about European inventions, which we must cherish. The EU has contributed to over 60 years of cooperation rather than war. With all the shortcomings that exist, the path of European cooperation is far from complete as far as we are concerned. Climate, migration, security: they are issues that no country can tackle on its own anymore and require European cooperation for which the EU is not an infallible but indispensable platform. A generation of my children and grandchildren are now growing, for those who move freely across national borders, on a journey, on vacation or at school. Successful Erasmus grants bring young people from many European countries together in relation to training and internships and thus closer together. For these and many more reasons, it is more than regrettable that a large Member State, a neighbour with which we also share many values, should drop out. Apart from this Brexit law, our first question to the Minister is how he, and with him the Netherlands and the EU, even after 29 March or whenever the release is a fact, wants to invest in continued cooperation with the UK on the basis of the values we share. The fact that the EU is also a common economic market that you do not just unfold, we see every day. Today's economy is no longer made up of nation states that each with their own products enter the market and compete against each other. It is a complex network of deliveries, assembly, production and marketing. A car made in Born receives the design from Bavaria, the steel sheet from IJmuiden, the wheels from Romania, the engine from England and the dashboard from Japan. It is not always our idea of the economy that it works like this, but there are examples of how economic processes are closely linked in terms of cooperation and border crossing. This also applies to future issues such as a smart grid for wind from Denmark, Nordic hydropower and solar energy from Spain, to stay on the positive side of what can come towards us. In short, unpawing is complex in all kinds of ways. Following yesterday's decision by the Speaker of the House of Commons not to allow a new vote on the negotiating agreement between May and the EU, uncertainty has only increased. It is right that the cabinet has been doing a great deal to be prepared for any way of leaving the UK from the EU for the past two years. The divided British policy outlined above, which leads to a staggering attitude, does not make it easy to anticipate what is coming. The bill we're dealing with fits in with that anticipation. Whether it is the right legislative proposal or not, we still have a number of questions for the Minister. My group is aware that many written questions have already been put in preparation. I would therefore like to focus my contribution on a number of comments that are still relevant to our consideration and more fundamental questions. You will not be surprised that Article X weighs heavily. If parliamentary democracy is a value with European roots that protects the EU, then we should not lift lightly to legislative proposals in which Parliament moves to the side car. On the contrary, the Brexit should not put its own parliamentary democratic elements at risk. The cabinet distinguishes different classes of issues in this collective law. Firstly, there are things that are coming towards us that we do not need to regulate now, such as agricultural policy, because in these areas the existing legislation is sufficient or delegated to the European level and national legislation is no longer affected. Moreover, according to the Cabinet, this is without prejudice to the need to take measures, but there is already a legal basis for this or we are not dealing directly with it. We understand that, but whether our fishermen, to give an example, have anything to do with this is, of course, the question. Can the Minister say something about how the EU is preparing for a future in which EU fishermen no longer have access to British waters and what that means for Dutch fisheries? The second category is about legal adjustments that are required by the departure of the UK regardless of how or when. What follows in the legislative proposal is a rather arbitrary list of proposed amendments to a limited number of subjects: from the Law on the formal foreign companies, through the offshore connectors for gas and electricity to the protection of semiconductor products. My group was blinking at this list of six subjects. Can the Minister explain once again clearly how this list was drawn up? They seem to be very specific topics that you wonder if this is actually the entire harvest of now foreseeable adjustments or just a first priority list. How consistent and systematic has the identification of problems and of necessary solutions actually been? What frameworks has the Cabinet used in its analyses and solutions leading to such a specific outcome? The Markham agreement on winning bitumina at sea should be provided with a safety net on exit, but not the ORCA and the Silliminate Field. Why are the property rights of semi-guided topography different from those of many other thousands of patents? To reassure him, or perhaps not: I do not expect a technical answer from the Minister, but I would like to mention this as examples of how arbitrary the list looks. I would like to receive a response and an explanation as to how this has happened and which analytical frameworks have been used. My group can imagine more in the third category which refers to the explanatory statement. This is about cases where we can foresee the need for legal measures, but we do not yet know exactly which ones. The cabinet mentions in particular social security laws, and long-term care and the Health Insurance Act. On these subjects we can follow what the cabinet does. These are generic issues that allow many citizens to get between shore and ship at a Brexit. It is right that the cabinet anticipates this. Several questions on these and related issues are sufficiently answered by my group. The most complicated part, as mentioned, is about the fourth category or Article X: arranging what is going to be called the "unknown unknown"; in popular terms it is also: "what you don't know, you don't know." My group would prefer to avoid these terms. We prefer to talk about the "expected unforeseen." After all, we have known for two years that changes are coming towards us that we must anticipate, but we do not know exactly how they are going to work. In the event of an emergency, Mr Van Apeldoorn has already pointed out that the cabinet is empowered to set aside existing legislation to take rapid action per AMvB or per ministerial measure. The two Rooms will only come after the event. Lower legislation overrulet than higher legislation without the intervention of the States-General. The TK has, through amendments, attracted the hand brake on the application of Article X more firmly and provided strong safeguards over time. However, a majority in this Chamber found this Article X and its ministerial powers to be so slippery that additional information was requested from the Council of State. In its rapid response, for which thanks, the Council concludes on the basic point mentioned that only limited and, for particular reasons, lower regulation can be exempted from higher regulation, even if there is no basis for this in a specific law. The Brexit may be considered such a special reason by the uniqueness of the event, the Council of State considers. That gives a certain grip, but it doesn't answer all the questions. In the explanatory memorandum and in the reply, the Minister states, without using the word as such, that he will only use the possibilities provided for in Article X in the event of an emergency. But what is the need if it is not described in the relevant legislative proposal? If that is not defined, a free interpretation or a blank cheque with "sorry" or "forget it again" will arise if the Chambers are really sputtering. My group urges the Minister, even if only for the history of law, to clarify what the definition of "need" in the sense of this bill is, because it is not clear in the response to our and other written questions. In any event, according to the Cabinet, this is not a matter of the emergency legal provisions which the Coordination Act defines as exceptional. That law is, we read in the reply, actually too heavy and too coarse a gun for the unforeseen expected by the Brexit. If it goes wrong with the financial system or there is a danger of a flood, it may not be entirely Brexit-related, or there is a serious danger to public health, perhaps through medicines, then existing laws provide a basis for action, the Minister says. But what specific situations can be involved? In the debates in the House of Representatives, it also came along here for a while, and also in the statement of answer there is talk of cars with live cattle or rotting food at the border, but precisely about these many mentioned examples, the response to our questions says that there are existing legal powers to act, both in the Animals Act and in various European regulations. The Minister also gives up urgency as a reason; sometimes measures are needed within 24 or 48 hours and legal treatment is then too long a process. There are also some comments to be made. In the case of the problems at St Eustatius and in the case of the purchase of Marten and Oopjen, we have shown in this parliamentary term that it can be done very quickly. For my group, therefore, the fundamental questions of proportionality remain: when is the need sufficient to bring Article X into force? Is there not a legal basis elsewhere? Not yet explained convincingly. However, we would like to give the Minister another chance. Finally. We understand, with all the questions we have left, the possible functionality of Article X in a no-dealbrexit, at least we can follow the government's reasoning, with all the comments I have made. With a regulated retirement, that really takes us too far. The United Kingdom will then leave the European Union on the basis of an international treaty. In our view, it is an undesirable precedent to give such a safety net with such an open mandate to the cabinet when implementing an international treaty. I would also like a response from the Minister. We are more interested than ever in his answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u61	Thank you, Mr. Lintmeijer. I give the floor to Mr Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u62	Mr. Chairman. I am pleased to be able to express this text on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. It's sad days. The victims and the next of kin of the attack yesterday and in Christchurch are in our minds and prayers. Last week's Brexit votes in the British House of Commons gave a picture of political distress. Until twice the Brexit deal was voted down, the representatives of the people turned against a no-deal with just four votes, rejected a new referendum and eventually voted for a large majority in favour of postponement. Whether there will be a third vote for the forthcoming European summit is unclear until this time. A rather staggering spectacle that is the sad consequence of political powerlessness and parliamentary indecision. A spectacle also with barely hidden undertones of political mutiny. The British media could hardly control their judgment of this political drama and spoke of chaos, drama, political humiliation and a "brexit meltdown." An EU negotiator summarized the scenes as: "The Titanic voting for the iceberg to get out of the way." The postponement of the Brexit agreed within the House of Commons on Thursday evening is now the subject of state-law fine grinding, including on the EU side. Our groups would like to hear from the Minister how he indicates this outcome and what real options are left. Should the EU agree to postpone, it seems sensible to us to set a framework conditions for a complete clarification by the British side on the intended concrete outcome of postponement, there is enforceable commitment and the House of Commons has agreed to this result. Can the Minister respond to these conditions? It is an open door, Mr President, that the negotiations between London and Brussels have been far from successful. The Brussels working visit of a delegation from the European Affairs and Finance Committee earlier this month made it clear that there have been hardly any serious negotiations on the part of the United Kingdom over the last year and a half. "Talks but no negotiations," that's how we got along. The picture that our two groups have is that of a United Kingdom that didn't really know what it wanted; an image of poor political leadership and parliamentary lack of direction. Neither the Tories nor Labour had and have a clear post-referendum course and a realistic Brexit strategy. And that breaks them, and actually us, now. As understandable as it may be to respond to this British Brexit tragedy, we must, in the end, continue with each other within or outside the EU and we must therefore find a compromise. The groups of the Christian Union and the SGP call on our Prime Minister to play a binding role on the European Brexit theatre, behind and in front of the scenes. Connecting and mediation is in our political DNA and these are the times when the difference can be made. We must avoid a strategy of humiliation towards the United Kingdom. We're still neighbors, we're still trading partners. It is precisely now that wisdom is needed, including on the European side. The European Council is due to meet in two days' time, and that is the time for the collective reaction of the European Heads of Government to the requested British postponement of retirement. Although, given the turbulent history, we hardly dare to use the word "endgame," this seems to be in sight now, ten days before the formal exit date. Our groups would like to hear from the Minister what the position of the Netherlands is going to be. Can he outline the contours of that? Postponement of retirement requires unanimity on the EU side and also requires the assent of the European Parliament. How does the Minister estimate this, our two groups are asking. What can a short delay reasonably bring to solutions? Does he see a creative arrangement for the backstop problem, for preventing a hard border between Ireland and Northern Ireland? A frontier that we should not think of.................................................................................................................................................................................................. Can he also take into account Donald Tusk's proposal to give the United Kingdom a more long-term delay? Should this last imitation be followed, what does this mean for the bill we are discussing today? All of this, in view of Article 50 of the European Treaty, concerns complex issues that require political masterpieces. Mr. Chairman. In any event, we must now, for the sake of safety, set up and prepare ourselves for the departure of the United Kingdom from the European Union. In that light, we also see this bill. This departure after almost 40 years will leave deep economic, political and social traces. It represents a reset of the European playing field and a redesign of trade relations. The Brexit is a historic rift that radically redefines Europe's relations, with major economic interests at stake. This applies to citizens, businesses and governments. The members of the Christian Union and SGP groups deplore the departure from the European Union of such an important ally with which we as the Netherlands have a long history and share fundamental social and political values. It is therefore a sad fact that today, in the event of all the turbulence caused by the Brexit, we need to consider the practical settlement of British retirement and its consequences for our country, our companies and our citizens. What remains of us as the Netherlands is to keep our heads down, to prepare ourselves as best we can and to take emergency measures. This applies to the public, to the business community and to the public sector. Benjamin Franklin said it: "By failing to prepare, you are preparing to fail." It is against this background that we have to assess the bill; a bill that must arm us in a most uncertain situation against unforeseen but profound consequences of the Brexit. The groups of the Christian Union and the SGP consider this a sensible approach. It must be said to us that the legislative dossier as presented to Parliament was rather thinly filled. For example, the departmental risk explorations of the consequences of the Brexit were missing. That is the view of the impact of British retirement. Fortunately, the House of Representatives has been able to correct this. Moreover, the analyses carried out show the extent to which the policy on possible emergencies and transitional situations has been invested at European level. That's where the central direction is. A no-deal scenario here means that the United Kingdom falls back to the level of a third country subject to multilateral treaties. This concerns policy areas such as customs, agriculture, fisheries, taxation, financial markets, medicines, medical technology and aviation. What remains is a list of what random overflowing policy areas needing rapid action. Mr Postema mentioned them: driving licences, professional qualifications, gas and electricity connectors, semiconductors, social security laws and health insurance. Can the Minister indicate how this coordination between Brussels and The Hague has been arranged around possible calamities? How have these responsibilities and communication been defined? Does this context provide sufficient room for personal policy and rapid intervention on the part of the Dutch side where this is necessary? And how do emergency powers relate to each other? Our groups fear that, in the event of an emergency, the Netherlands' own direction will be put under pressure. Can the Minister take away this fear? Our political groups point out that while European law is leading in many policy areas, the effectiveness of this European law also depends in Brussels on the effectiveness of national policies, on rapid and decisive action. Does the Minister share this argument? Mr. Chairman. We can hardly form a picture of the events immediately after a Brexit. And that also makes it difficult to establish the proportionality of the legislative proposal in a ready-to-use manner. After all, we cannot quantify the probability of unknown events with an extraordinary impact. The degree of unpredictability is high. How will financial markets react? Will there be rapid scarcity in the pharmaceutical market? Will companies suddenly take their own exit scenarios out of the closet? Are there any obstructions at customs controls? Are there any conflicts between fishermen? It's all conceivable, but the odds are very difficult to calculate. But the collective psychology of the moment can have great consequences. Now, given the transition period, all that may not be so bad, but it requires a prepared government. Can the Minister give our two groups a final state of play? How good are the governments, including the local authorities, and our companies, which depend on trade with the United Kingdom, lined up and prepared? What is the Minister's summary opinion here, even if he looks at the operational infrastructure available to deal with any problems? Mr. Chairman. We have discussed this at length under an emergency law such as this Brexit law is parliamentary control over the government which exercises greater powers through AMvBs and ministerial arrangements. It concerns, on the one hand, the scope for the government to react quickly and adequately to emergency and transition situations, and, on the other hand, it should not exclude Parliament as legislative and controlling power. The original proposal, as set out in Article X, was, in the opinion of both our groups, not well balanced, but the House of Representatives has done a good job here. The amendments adopted have strengthened the legislative proposal on the primacy of Parliament. For example, the validity of the law has been reduced from twelve to six months, it is an immediate unacceptable and irreversible effect, it must not deviate from the Constitution and there are additional parliamentary safeguards around AMvBs and ministerial arrangements. At the request of the First Chamber, I just indicated it in my interruption..... the amended bill was submitted to the Council of State, which came with a response shortly before the weekend. The Council's response is clear: the great uncertainties and the unpredictable consequences Brexit will have for national legislation mean that the authorisation provision as set out in Article X of the legislative proposal is necessary. This applies both to a situation with and without a withdrawal agreement. This opinion is crucial for the groups of the Christian Union and the SGP in their opinions on this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u63	I would like to go back to an earlier point in Mr Ester's speech. He mentioned that given the unpredictability of the Brexit, it is also difficult to assess the proportionality of the proposed law. I got that right. Does this also apply to Article X, and should I conclude from that that Mr Esther does not really know, but that he chooses to be proportionate for the sake of safety?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u64	The core of the whole story is those "great unknown unknowns." That is what we are dealing with here, and that is what you are dealing with in daily life. We have to prepare for that. Only, we can't attach numbers to that. The mathematics is leaving us there. It is a very basic form of risk calculation that you probably know. That makes a quick-and-ready assessment as I said about this proportionality complicated, but it is at the heart of the proposal that we do not know that the word "unforeseen" has any consequences, so that is something we have to live with. We made that clear. You have also talked about it in detail, but it is absolutely no reason for us to oppose this bill. On the contrary, it is at the heart of the bill to arm ourselves against unforeseen circumstances that could have a huge impact.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u65	But would it be possible, in Mr Ester's view, that it was not proportional afterwards?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u66	I'll get back to you on that, if you don't mind, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u67	I had one other point in relation to what Mr Ester said; you will come back to that later, I am glad to hear it. In the light of what you said about the opinion of the Council of State, which seems to be very heavy or even decisive for your group. The Council of State was also asked whether it sees alternatives to the provisions or powers proposed in Article X given to the Minister. In my reading of that opinion, the Council of State did not, in fact, explicitly address it. I would like to ask Mr Ester how he looks at that, for example, if he also sees the possibility I mentioned in my speech, while Mr Lintmeijer also mentioned concrete examples that we ourselves as States-General if necessary, if that need turns out to be greater than perhaps some of us might expect, than we ourselves can do. How does he and his group view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u68	I understand what you are saying, through the President, but once again we are talking about the action of calamities that we cannot well imagine, but of which we know I mentioned a number of examples later that if they occur, the suffering is inconceivable. That requires a groomed government that anticipates this kind of thing. As I said, the House of Representatives has built in sufficient security by means of amendments to give Parliament a clear voice in the legislative dossier. So there, I think, are sufficient certainties built in. For us, however, that is what you have seen very well. The opinion of the Council of State in our opinion determines our final assessment of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u69	Mr Ester was just talking about "the great unknown unknown" and he was just using the superb stairs. Aren't we a little mystifying that unforeseen thing? And isn't the weighting of the proportionality of this bill becoming completely out of line? I tried in my contribution to peel off what we're talking about. Then it actually turns out to be relatively unknown, but still foreseeable things. The language which is also in the explanatory statement, Mr Ester takes that a little bit about.... makes it a kind of mystification in which things are only getting bigger.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u70	Mr. Chairman. The latter is not meant to be, but it is about things that we have no idea of. In my speech, I mentioned a number of calamities that could occur. For example, the reaction of the monetary market, the financial markets. That could have a huge impact. I cannot say that the probability of this happening is 99%, but if it happens and it is 5%, the consequences are enormous. That's basic risk experience. And that's the core of this bill. I won't make it bigger than it is, but we certainly shouldn't make it smaller.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u71	Then once the example you mention, that financial example. In our financial legislation, a provision has already been made for this. So that's where the principle of subsidiarity is going to play. I do not hear many examples, not even from you, where there is a provision or not, whether proportionality is at stake.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u72	Mr. Chairman. I'm not gonna repeat my contribution. The Minister has also been expressly asked by several parties to express his views on this matter. I'd be happy to go into that. This self-chosen British liberalisation is a unique event and we cannot, therefore, fall back on previous experiences. That is also one of the contexts, I would say in the direction of Mr Lintmeijer. That's also part of that insecure mathematics in this field. We can't rely on previous experiences. There are no precedents. Through this Brexit law and additional policies, we try to fight against these unforeseen problems, transitional situations and calamities. It is precisely for this reason that it is important that I now come to Mr Van Apeldoorn's report to give an in-depth and comprehensive assessment of that law, including in the area of parliamentary control of the enlarged powers of the government. We may have our laws in order, but that's not the same as effective crisis management. In the days immediately after the Brexit will show how robust our preparations and calamities exercises are. We must learn, preferably with the other Member States, how to act in a crisis situation such as the Brexit. How did we deal with the "I only call them "unknown unknowns" one more time? Can the Minister undertake such a comprehensive evaluation? Mr President, I shall conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u73	Interesting thought, but to clarify this evaluation: When and how does Mr Ester envisage this evaluation? After the six-month period, or mid-term? Or an evaluation that will then be shared with this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u74	It will have to be between six months and a year. You should give that a little time, too. I would like a comprehensive evaluation, not only on the economic or legal aspects, but also on the social aspects. How well were we even prepared for the Brexit? We must also discuss these results with this House, especially if the Minister could undertake to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u75	Just for the sake of clarity, this evaluation will take place at the moment when the government, or the minister, no longer has the power to give Article X to the minister for six months after the UK's retirement? I understand that, don't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u76	That's what I like to think. I think the fact that this evaluation is taking place is more important than its exact moment. Mr. Chairman. I'm closing up. The Christian Union and SGP groups support the use of this bill to give the government additional powers around the departure of the United Kingdom from the European Union. The chances of something going wrong may be small, I repeat, but if something goes wrong, the consequences are great. We wish the Cabinet much wisdom and blessing in these unprecedented exciting times and look forward to the Minister's answers to our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u77	Thank you, Mr. Ester. I give the floor to Mrs Oomen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u78	Mr. Chairman. The draft law that we are discussing today has a political context, on which I will make a few comments at the beginning. Madam President. Last Tuesday you reported to the Committee on European Affairs on the visit you made to the United Kingdom and also the discussions you had there. I agree so much with the analysis you have made there, the analysis of the division of the country, the differences between rich and poor, the British in the large metropolitan areas that voted for remain on 23 June 2016 and the less prosperous region that voted for Brexit, as well as the differences between young and old, the youth, who, by the way, often stayed at home, but who sees a future on the European continent, and the older generation, who want to continue to see the UK as 'running the waves'. The referendum with 51.9% of the votes for a leave and a 72% turnout shows that the years of sowing undefeated facts in the media lead to this result. A result of which we now see the difficult implementation every day. A result I would like to say very emphatically that it affects not only the United Kingdom but every EU country. Madam President. There is a very long history to be drawn from the British's entry into what was then called the EEC. Since its accession in 1973, the UK's strategy for accessing the benefits of the free market has been, without any political integration, which, in my view, is inseparable from that. It was deregulation, complete liberalisation and an opt-out for the currency, but I would also like to say this to colleagues in the Socialist Party, an opt-out for social policy, all of which was their commitment. I would like to elaborate on that. I've been with the British too long in my other position. But I will confine myself to the law that is before us today. The draft Brexit Act provides the government with tools and powers to take measures to prevent disruptions in our Dutch society and, where necessary, to respond adequately, both in the event of irregular exit and in the event of an exit with agreement between the UK and the EU. The instruments proposed by the government in the first draft of the law, to which the Council of State has also reacted very critically, have been substantially amended by amendment. Nevertheless, as a CDA group, we also continued to hold fundamental questions. Despite the short time available to us for dealing with this draft law, we thought it would be a good idea for the Court to submit a request for information to the Council of State. I would like to congratulate the Council of State for the adequate, very thorough and rapid response in this procedure. Our first question was about a Brexit with c.q. a Brexit without a withdrawal agreement. In the case of a Brexit with a withdrawal agreement, the UK, with the exception of some institutional aspects, Mr Postema has already reported this and with the persistence of the opt-outs that the UK has always had, it would still be part of the European Union. The reasoning put forward by the Council of State is that, despite such a direct applicability of the draft withdrawal agreement and the application of Union law in the transition period, the need for additional national regulation may nevertheless exist. Moreover, it cannot be excluded that additional national rules will be necessary to make the agreements made in the withdrawal agreement more effective in the Netherlands either directly or in response to the implementing measures. I can follow that reasoning of the Council of State. Is that how the Minister sees it? Moreover, on our question of whether, in the event of an orderly withdrawal, i.e. a withdrawal agreement, national measures should not be coordinated in the EU, including in the interests of the Netherlands, the Minister gives a different answer. "I do not share that opinion," says the Minister. If I look further at the reply number 6 that Mr Postema received from the Labour Party, the Minister says, quote, 'The practice shows that the European Commission does not fail to initiate proceedings before the European Court of Justice in the event of alleged violations of the division of powers'. Should I say that I hope that it is not the case that the Minister is of the opinion that, even in the case of a withdrawal agreement, the Netherlands can take measures contrary to the EU agreements or agreements. EU law? How does the Minister regard the European Commission as the guardian of the Treaties? Madam President. The information we have requested from the Council of State has really removed a great deal of concern from the CDA Group about the implementation of Article X in particular. In the information we also see confirmed by the Council of State that unforeseen emergency measures should in principle be taken in all cases by general administrative action.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u79	I note that Mrs Oomen-Ruijten was also very pleased with the careful advice given by the Council of State in the eyes of her group. I would like to ask the following question, which I have also asked the Minister. This applies to the Minister's bill but also to the Council of State's opinion. The Council of State states first of all that the primacy of the legislator is a very important principle and that by way of derogation, which is in fact the case, is very undesirable, but here the comma and the word "but"...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Does Mrs Oomen-Ruijten think that the Council of State supports in its careful opinion why it might be necessary in this case and why there should be a justified exception?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u80	Yes. If I have read it correctly, the opinion of the Council of State states that there is an exceptional situation and that urgent action is needed. Action is needed because the situation is urgent, necessary, irreversible and unacceptable; all such terms are used. Since we currently do not know what could happen, the unknown is not known, Article X can be seen as a safety net provision.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u81	How does the Council of State or Mrs Oomen-Ruijten know that this is a question of 'I repeat her words', a situation in which urgent action is needed? What's that based on?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u82	If we knew that, we wouldn't need Article X.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u83	I note that it is based on a suspicion that you share with the Council of State, namely the suspicion that it is necessary to intervene urgently.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u84	No...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u85	You also mentioned unacceptable consequences, I say to Mrs Oomen-Ruijten through the President. Nor do I believe that the Council of State defines 'unacceptable consequences'. What do you actually think of the definition of 'unacceptable consequences' given by the Minister? How would you look at that concept of unacceptable consequences?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u86	We have a government that bears responsibility and believes that there is an unacceptable situation, not only in the case of AMvB, which is preferable, but even in the case of ministerial regulation, an urgent decision must be taken that is good for Dutch society. At that time, all procedures will come into force, and that decision will also have to be submitted to both chambers immediately. If we do not think it is irreversible, we can reverse that decision. That's the situation. If we had known what situation the Minister would have to deal with in concrete terms, the House of Representatives could have laid it down in the law per amendment. But the fact that we don't know makes it necessary that we have Article X.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u87	Finally, Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u88	Finally, Mr President. I understand Mrs Oomen-Ruijten's argument in such a way that she says that we have a government to which we must leave that judgment in this case, which will then have to assess whether it is urgent and urgent and whether it is possible to do otherwise than under ministerial regulation. But Mrs Oomen-Ruijten also says: then perhaps we in Parliament can see afterwards that these are not irreversible consequences. Does it recognise that there is a situation in which a ministerial arrangement is already in force, with all its consequences? Maybe rights have been created, there are claims and everything is going on. Then Parliament or one of the two Chambers can say afterwards that the consequences were not irreversible or unacceptable, but then the consequences of the ministerial arrangement itself may be irreversible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u89	Yes. That means, in your reasoning, that the government will consider it very carefully before reaching such a ministerial decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u90	In my view, the measures taken are not always reversible at all, because of course you also have the confidence that stakeholders put in a government. Then you get the pants in the necklace, because then you have to turn things back, when people have trusted that it would go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u91	No. I assume that Article X makes it possible to take an emergency measure even by ministerial decision. That's a lot of thought. It is only done if the government thinks that otherwise it would have very nasty consequences for Dutch society.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u92	You can assume that, but the fact remains that permits may already have been issued and commitments may already have been made. They are very difficult to reverse, and we have had absolutely nothing to say about them. That fact remains. That gap is just there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u93	Both chambers will be able to reverse the ministerial decision within a week. If I understand correctly, you say that under the ministerial decision, things may have already been agreed that lead to damage in society. It could be. I trust the government. In taking such a ministerial decision, the government will also realize what the scope could be for Dutch society.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u94	Finally, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u95	Do you agree with me that, at the moment when the ministerial arrangement comes into force until it is withdrawn, there is a gap that Parliament has no control over? In practice, I think, more than a week goes by.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u96	It can be withdrawn within a week. Yes, there is a gap; I realize that. But because we do not know what we do not know, we, as legislator, have given this provision as a kind of safety net to the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u97	We still have to do that, don't we? There's still a decision to be made on the law. You say "have given," but we still have to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u98	If it is up to me, Mr President, we should give this power to the government. Where was I? In information we have therefore confirmed by the Council of State that emergency measures should in principle be taken in all cases at AMvB. If they deviate from existing laws, these measures will not only be temporary, but will also have to be followed up, as I have just explained, by legislation so that Parliament can take part in the decision. The ministerial regime provided for, which may therefore also deviate from the higher rules, is justified only in very exceptional situations where the time for making an AMvB is too short, delay is not possible and there is urgency and acute intervention has been requested. That is how my group understood the interpretation of the Council of State. Can the Minister promise that that explanation is also correct? Madam President, I hope the Minister answers our questions. I think that when we come to the end of this legal process, we must make the motto 'better safe than sorry afterwards' heavy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u99	Thank you, Mrs Oomen. I give the floor to Mr Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For discussion, there is a legislative proposal for the fact that, as has already been said, it is unique in its kind. It anticipates a unique event, at least that is what I hope is the exit of a Member State from the European Union. It is the type of legislation that is also exceptional for us as legislators because we are asked to agree to a very far-reaching power of delegation. We have asked for information from the Council of State. The answer was received in good time. In order to assess legality, my group did not really need it, but it is good and careful and I endorse Mrs Oomen's compliments for the speedy and thorough response by the Council. Mr. Chairman. The treatment involves the anticipation of a Brexit without agreement, a no-dealbrexit. However, this proposal is also relevant to the scenario in which an agreement is reached. I give a brief appreciation of the Brexit as a phenomenon. Some spokesmen have done the same. D66's commitment is to work on a world in which we think and act internationally and in which we strive for convergence rather than confrontation, and if you want brotherhood, through peaceful conflict resolution rather than dominance and domination. We seek to find forms of cooperation that best guarantee the existence of fundamental rights and shared values. In our view, however, the European Union is an important cornerstone of this endeavour. I heard Mr Lintmeijer speak in that direction too, and that appealed to me. The European Union is not only a promise for the future of us and our children, but also, after all these years, proof that some of the objectives can be achieved in any case: peace and prosperity. These days the letters of Johan de Witt came out digitally and there is also a nice print of them. In it we can read the word "mutiny" already fell how in those years conflicts between us and England were resolved, namely armed. We don't do that anymore. That is progress, with all its shortcomings, because the European Union, and we are the first to discuss it, has shortcomings. But we want to fight for it to be reduced and eventually eliminated. Mr. Chairman. We will continue to discuss the future of the EU in the debate on the State of the Union, but there have already been terms such as 'vazal', 'D66 as vassal'. If that means "faithful in working on, and on the basis of, the foundations of the European Union," then it is right in that sense. We are working on improving and implementing it. How different is that for the conservative party across the Channel? How else have they dealt with the achievements? Theresa May failed to repeat "Brexit means Brexit" after the mantra. But there was, as it turns out, no plan A, no plan B and also, so few days before the date, no plan C. Of course, that's just irresponsible governance. The world is witnessing an endgame of a series of irresponsible political decisions, and that has been given its own momentum. It is impossible to predict, as other colleagues have said, how this will end. With a very remarkable role for the Speaker, which can go back to precedents up to 1604, we can...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u101	1603, it was in the paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u102	1603. Mr President, if you say so, it will be 1603.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u103	The paper said it, didn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u104	That's true. That's why I'd rather go after you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u105	I'm quoting the paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u106	Oh, my... We're gonna find out! Mr. Ester was joking about the Titanic. It's serious matter, but the English are constantly joking about this situation, so maybe I can add a variant to it. I mean the Englishman who ordered a whiskey on the deck and says to his wife: I ordered ice, but this is ridiculous! Mr. Chairman. With the proposal, the government rightly aims to ensure that our country is prepared so well and so evilly for any turn of events that this spectacle can take. In drawing up the Lisbon Treaty, Article 50 has been taken into account, but it is very brief. It is five articles and, in fact, there is not much more to say than that there is a need for guidelines. They were also given to Mr Barnier in the end. In consultation with the Commission and the European Parliament, he worked on an exit agreement and a political declaration. But it has not been accepted, we do not know what the status is and there are still many variants that we have not foreseen. I do not think that the break-up of the UK would even be unbelievable. Mr. Chairman. When I went over the proposal, I also had to think about the technical briefing, for which I would also like to thank the Minister. I was impressed by the monks' work done in the departments. Because of this impression, my group had expected more chapters than we see in the chapters to Article X; it was just mentioned with Mr Lintmeijer. That Article X has been added, its ratio, I can understand. In the unimaginable, there must be something you can do, an emergency facility. The question of proportionality was raised in the written preparation, as was the question of hierarchy in relation to EU legislation. I wanted to concentrate first on serving interest. Dutch nationals and EU citizens in our country and Dutch citizens in the UK will be disproportionately hit by any Brexit, but of course the most in the no-deal scenario. That, I think, is really the ratio of the proposal. The question of proportionality which has been raised here, and which Mr Van Apeldoorn in particular has stressed very strongly, raises the question of whether the proposal is sufficiently robust. Is the government convinced that it can fulfil the primary task it has to protect citizens from an externally important disruption? That is the beginning of a question on the point raised by Mr Van Apeldoorn, namely the emergency provision. The executive too has a duty to act for the citizen and to make provision for it. I am looking, for example, at Chapters IV and V, of which social security and care are at the heart. I understand that we are doing legislative work here in a piece of no-man's-land between transferred EU powers and national competences involving third countries and therefore we must act. These are in my opinion, but I would ask the Minister, not "EU-only" powers. But I still need an explanation. Mrs. Oomen also spoke about it. I find that delimitation complicated. Why do I not find anticipation of issues in the field of justice and security? I have seen the letter to the House of Representatives of Minister Grapperhaus, the financial world and taxation? Is this indeed about the analysis made by Mr Postema that there are already facilities in all these areas and that this is no longer necessary? Mr. Chairman. Like other colleagues, we have found with agreement that the Van der Graaf/Verhoeven amendment has restored and specified the hierarchy between Articles I to IX and the emergency link. First the royal route and then article X. Just came up with the answer to the need and urgency. Before Mr Van Apeldoorn interrupts me, I would just like to say to him that the Minister is constantly being questioned as to what it must be, always a weighting of circumstances, where there are two routes, if I see it correctly. One is an emergency correction by Parliament; Mrs Oomen has already spoken about it. But there is also the route to the administrative judge, perhaps not so much to disable the provision but in individual cases in case of disproportionate disadvantage and damage. I would like to hear the Minister on the two points that I have raised here, because they have not yet been discussed and I have actually read little about them. It seems to me to be a logical construction. Mr. Chairman. I just said that we do not have the exit agreement on the agenda here and that it may not be on the agenda either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u107	I would like to say a few words about the previous one, because you referred several times to my speech. You are saying that it is up to the Minister to say that more often today; we have confidence in the government to determine in each individual case the situation and the seriousness of the consequences or urgency and whether or not it is necessary to govern per ministerial arrangement. I understand what Mr Backer is saying, but I would like to ask the question again: would it not be a good thing if the Minister also specified in abstracto what he would mean by "emergency"? Then the trade-off can take place within it. Again, in the general answer to our Chamber, the Minister states that "emergency" can be defined as: a situation that differs from the most desirable. Then action should be taken, provided that there is an alternative action and the benefits outweigh the disadvantages. When I think of 'emergency', I think of serious situations which you say must be dealt with urgently, urgently, in order to quote Mrs Oomen-Ruijten once again. Then I don't think of anything that deviates from the most desirable. In my view, that gives a kind of carte blanche. Then the Minister can say that we consider this to be less desirable, it is irreversible and so we must now intervene by ministerial decree. I would therefore ask Mr Backer what he thinks of those words. Or does he say that "emergency" should be something of a more serious nature, perhaps life-threatening; I would just mention a possible interpretation? How does the D66 Group view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u108	I'm trying to think with you. This subject has now been discussed several times this morning. How do we look at it? On the one hand, there is the question of need and the legislative structure that has been chosen here with an Article X, the legitimacy of which is our own assessment, but which has been helped by the conclusion of the Council of State. It says that the great uncertainties about the Brexit process and the unpredictable consequences for national legislation require the establishment of a legal provision, as provided for in Article X. That's about the legislative construction. Now for the interpretation: when is that going to be the case? In my opinion, this is much more in the sphere of orderly administration, of what the government is supposed to do. That's what my question was about. Is there sufficient intervention for the Dutch citizen where this is necessary? When considering whether to do so with a ministerial arrangement or with an AMvB, it is in both cases an assessment on the administrative side of the executive. Then there are two correction options, and that construction is legitimate to my group. I am, of course, extremely interested in the Minister's reply. Maybe I see it all wrong and then we will have to go through with this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u109	Mr Backer is talking about the executive to protect the citizen. I think that we should at least stick to Article 81 of the Constitution as much as possible and to our role as co-legislator. The executive acts constantly and fortunately, but the question is whether the executive may also act by way of derogation from the law in a formal sense without Parliament being involved in that decision in advance. Is it not important, when considering the proportionality of Article X, how the executive, the government in this case, looks at the concept of "emergency" or how it defines emergency situations, also in the abstract sense? Or is this not important for Mr Backer when considering the proportionality of Article X?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u110	With all due respect, I believe that Mr Van Apeldoorn is confusing the two issues. I have just given my view on this and I am very curious about the Minister's answer. Let me just say this about it. I would be very surprised if the minister in question, in any department, did not consider the administrative responsibility he would take, that an urgent measure should be taken which could not be taken in any other way because it would take too much time. Is that what you call "emergency" or an immediate provision? The concept of a provisional remedy in law, both in administrative law and in civil law, is always asking the President for interim measures: is this a matter of urgency? Sometimes it's rejected because it's not. I kind of see it in that mindset, too. Of course, the assessment by the govern ment will have to be well founded on the fact that he is following this route. There's the emergency and the emergency element in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u111	Mr Van Apeldoorn, finally at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u112	If the Minister then motivates "We have deemed this necessary because we find that if we do not act, the outcome is a different than would be desirable under ideal circumstances," is that sufficient motivation for Mr Backer to say: in this case it was urgent and necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u113	Let me say this about it. I think any sensible ruler will motivate why he doesn't think something is desirable. "Wish" is, of course, a political assessment. It could be damage, it could be suffering, it could be high cost. The question of whether this desirability is ultimately shared politically by everyone could be the subject of disagreement. Anyway, that will be assessed in the emergency braking procedure. Mr. Chairman. I just wanted to say one more thing. We also have bilateral agreements with the UK, which, I think, go on. Of course, the United Kingdom might want to negotiate more favourable arrangements with the Netherlands at some point, because it is in a new situation. Is my assumption that this is likely to be a disappointment, because in that case too the competence for trade agreements lies with the EU? Where the possibility will exist, there should be no more favourable favour for the UK than for other European countries. One of the problems that the UK is now naturally encountering in the negotiations with third countries is precisely this problem. That is why, in my view, almost no other trade agreements have been concluded. Maybe the Minister can give me a heads-up on that? Mr. Chairman. I conclude that, with Article X, the government has finally opted for a procedural solution which has been amended by the House of Representatives. That sounds good to me, too. In principle, therefore, this is a residual category. There are safeguards for this. We have just discussed them: prior, parliamentary involvement afterwards. The Council of State can justify that. I just repeated the quote. In conclusion, therefore, the D66 Group sees no reason to reach a conclusion other than the Council of State on legitimacy and, in principle, welcomes the government's proposal. We are, of course, very much looking forward to the Minister's reply, especially on the point that has just been raised in the interruption. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-3.u114	Thank you, Mr. Backer. I'm gonna take a look at the clock anyway. I can see Mr. Sheep. You have registered for 15 minutes, but I would like to suspend, because if there are any interruptions, the agenda will be confused. I'd rather not. So I'm suspending the meeting for lunch until 1:30 p.m.
