ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u1	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a decision authorising the establishment of the Dutch financing and development institution Invest-NL (Authorisation Act establishing Invest-NL) (35123). I would also like to welcome the Minister of Finance to the First Chamber. I have already welcomed the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy. I would draw Members' attention to the fact that three Members will make their maiden speech during this debate. Those are the first three speakers. I'll ring a bell before every maiden speech. After every maiden speech, I will address the speaker briefly. I will suspend the meeting shortly after the last, third maiden speech for congratulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van der Linden for his maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u3	Mr President. I think it is an honour in this house, the oldest active parliament hall in Europe, to cross the verbal swords with colleagues and rulers in the coming years. First of all, I would like to thank the voters of the Forum for Democracy very warmly at the beginning of this first contribution. I also wish colleagues Karimi and Van Huffelen good luck today with their maiden speech in this house. Having said that, Mr President, to the substance. We are holding the debate here today on the Invest-NL Authorisation Act. Invest-NL is popularly better known as the Wouter Bosfonds. I am pleased that he is here today; welcome. It is named after the chairman of the board who has been working for more than a year, while today, more than thirteen months later, we are deciding on this law. But that's how it works, apparently. Invest-NL. State capitalism. The government pays 2.5 billion euros of tax money into a fund whose sole shareholder is the State. That tax money is then invested riskily in transitions. In transitions, Chairman. Popular jargon in the administrative Netherlands; a new political theology. The transitions are happening today: energy transitions, gender transitions, protein transitions, mobility transitions and educational transitions. Today another transition came along: the transition in the social domain. We're passing through this country a little bit. To facilitate all these transitions, we read in this bill, this state fund is now being set up. Investing in risky political hobbies with taxpayers' money. Mr. Chairman. What could possibly go wrong here? For example: State invests innovation money in lingerie by Marlies Dekkers and Jopenbier. That was the headline of an article in the Financial Daily of 22 October last, which was about one of the predecessors of Invest-NL, namely State Fund DVI. Tv company Tuvalu and mortgage advisor Ikbenfrits also received state aid. Quite rightly, according to a former director of that state fund DVI, because according to him these companies were innovative in "he's back to transition." The transition we were talking about here was a transition from old to new economy. Take the example of Marlies Dekkers. The funding was used for a very innovative development. Her underwear was no longer sold only in shopping streets, but, as we read in the article, also online. A revolutionary transition. What an innovation: time way ahead. Chapeau. I have a question for the Minister. Can the Minister reflect on these examples of the predecessors of Invest-NL: Marlies Dekkers, Tuvalu and Jopenbier? Does the Minister believe that it is a good thing that these companies are financed with taxpayers' money? Are these the examples he also expects from Invest-NL? Mr. Chairman. In this Chamber, in this Senate, I have already started with it, we are supposed to test legislation for feasibility and coherence. The explanatory memorandum to this bill contains whole passages on behavioural standards, governance and forms of cooperation. But the key question, which is at the heart of my group today, is quite simple: what problem is this state fund really the solution to? It is precisely this question that Forum for Democracy has re-examined and weighed here in this house over the last few months. We have found the law too light, for three reasons. One, there's no problem. Two: the aim of this fund is already sufficient public instruments to combat market failures. Three: the past offers bad guarantees for the future. I would like to explain these three reasons again. One, there's no problem. The money in today's market is crawling with plinths. The interest rate, thanks, among other things, to the ECB's disastrous interest rate policy under Draghi, has never been so low historically. The market is willing to take some real risk. The fact that there is no problem is confirmed in response to the written questions we have asked. Forum for Democracy asked about the investment criteria that Wouter Bos is about to apply. The answer is indicative: each application must have at least a positive business case. So now we have the next situation. One: there will be applications that are completely uneconomic. They'll be rejected. Two: there will be applications that seem to be profitable. And then Invest-NL will compete with the market. Even if an application has a low rate of return, it is currently also interesting for the market. The aim of the investments is to invest in socially responsible necessary transitions. And then you all know that not only the financial return counts for the market, but also for the low return. As an investor, you can show off the good things you do. Even fossil companies like Shell are selling themselves as green these days. Tank clean diesel and save a polar bear. I have questions for both ministers. I see here a Minister of Finance of classical doctrine and a Liberal VVD Minister. Can they try again to convince our group what problem this state fund is really going to solve? And I'd like that in plain human language. Our interim conclusion is that there is no problem. Instead of setting up state funds, this cabinet should reduce taxes. The second argument. There are already sufficient public instruments to address market failures. I'll name one: grant. Look at biomass plants. A completely, but completely, wrong form of energy supply. The planned power station in Diemen will be hiding 18,000 football fields of forest on its own every year. It is a form of energy that we cannot use without state aid at all. We just supported a motion on it. But that energy form, biomass, is necessary, because we are in transition. My questions to the Minister. Does he agree with the Democracy Forum that biomass is subsidised because otherwise there is market failure? Is the grant of 11.4 billion currently the instrument to compensate for that market failure, because we are in transition? The idea that the fund will tackle the market failure may also turn out exactly the other way around, namely that Invest-NL is going to compete with the market. That is why one more question to the Minister, whom we asked in writing earlier. We'd like guarantees. What if Invest-NL gets there? Then how does the Minister guarantee that the Wouter Bosfonds will not compete with the market? In that case, instead of resolving market failures, the fund would create market distortions. Then there's the third argument. The past offers bad guarantees for the future. Let's look at the past and learn from it. This is not new, this has been tried before and this has gone wrong more often. Think of the FES, the Economic Structure Strengthening Fund, established in 1995, dissolved in 2011. A destructive report by the Meijerink Committee did not leave any trace of the situation at that time. They spoke downright of cow trading with the natural gas benefits. I go back to the eighties of the last century: the Society for Industrial Projects, the MIP, founded by Jan Terlouw. That was supposed to be the showpiece for industrial renewal, but the misguided fund ended up in a flop. There are also numerous examples in the region. Each province has its own fund. Some provinces even have several. In Zuid-Holland there is the Heat Participation Fund, which puts millions of taxpayers' money into a fiasco of a heat grid. Transition. In Brabant they had the Broadband Fund for the construction of fiberglass. I recently spoke to an SME entrepreneur who once participated in an application. He was shocked by the cowboys who came to this government fund. He didn't want to put his good name on it; he withdrew. One more recent example. Last August, the Wadden Fund was set up. I quote EenVandaag: "Waddenfonds with 800 million euros turns out to be grabbelton. The Wadden Fund appears to have been looted for all kinds of administrative hobby projects, except for the Wadden. Out of the EUR 800 million that the Empire put into this fund in 2006, only EUR 200 million is left, without any idea whether the rest has been well spent." That's not what I conclude, that's what the researchers conclude. Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of my contribution I asked what might go wrong. Well, this. I already gave the example of DVI, which now goes on in Invest-NL and made investments in Marlies Dekkers and Jopenbier. This type of construction is not new, this has been tried before and has not led to great successes. This fund is old wine in new bags. The government's gonna take action. That's a recipe for failure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Van der Linden, for your maiden speech. Allow me to outline some of your background. You took the course in accountancy at Nyenrode Business University. At the same time, you worked for more than ten years as an external auditor at Deloitte. After a year and a half as a senior business analyst at Bacardi, you became alderman in Barendrecht, on behalf of the local party Echt Voor Barendrecht (EVB). You were responsible for, among other things, finance, land business, staff and organisation, social affairs and sport. Since the municipal elections of 2018, where your party became the largest, but did not participate in the mayor's and aldermen's college, you have been party chairman of Recht Voor Barendrecht. In that municipality you are also babs, special civil servant, or wedding officer. Since 2018 you have also been the director-owner of Levadeli (Lennart VAn Der LInden) Holding BV. Together with politicians from other local parties and with the support of the Association of Dutch Municipalities, you are committed to providing financial support to local parties by the Empire, as do national parties. In this Chamber you will find Mr Gerbrandy on your side, who also called for this during the General Political Reviews of two weeks ago. The First Parliamentary Membership is your first People's Representative position for Forum for Democracy. Since September 2019 you are also a member of the board of the party. You are also spokesperson for all the Forum for Democratic Groups in Provincial States. A year and a half ago you started as a trainer at the Netherlands Debate Institute. You say about speaking in public: "You learn to speak by speaking," "A good speaker connects form and content seamlessly" and "A good preparation is half the work." Three opinions which you have just presented to us and which we can all take to heart! Once again, welcome and we look forward to your further input. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Karimi for her maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u5	First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Van der Linden on his maiden speech. That is what I am saying to Mrs Van Huffelen. Mr. Chairman. Even if it is not the first time I have spoken in this Chamber, it is different. In 2005 I defended with two co-sponsors an initiative legislative proposal to hold a national referendum on the European Constitution. The constitutional mandate to pronounce you as a member of the First Chamber in the final stage of a legislative process for or against a law, feels heavy. The review of laws on legality, enforceability and enforcement is at the heart of the work of the First Chamber as co-legislator. Therefore, in this debate, I will focus on the consistency of the current Act of Authorisation establishing Invest-NL and on the feasibility of the proposal. The cabinet aims with Invest-NL to address the market failure, firstly in the sectors where there are important societal transitions, such as the energy, climate, agricultural and food transitions on the one hand and where there is mismatch between demand and supply for venture capital in start-ups and scale-ups on the other. The cabinet also wants to set up a national vehicle with Invest-NL to enable co-financing with InvestEU, with sufficient distance from the State and to qualify the financial contribution as a financial transaction instead of expenditure, to keep the 1.7 billion outside the EMU balance. Hence the choice of an SA with the State as sole shareholder. The European Commission's assessment and the CPB validation make it clear that these two conditions, in their choice of form, are met. Before I go into detail on the bill, I have a question first. What is the government's expectation when it comes to mobilising sums that the Netherlands thinks it can mobilise through Invest-NL as part-financing from InvestEU? Mr. Chairman. In the present time of large social transitions, the State has a special responsibility. A strong government that, in the first instance, has to ensure the conditions under which citizens, their organisations, businesses and markets can make choices and make investments with sufficient certainty. Sometimes it is also necessary for the public authorities themselves to use financial resources to encourage market players to make the right choices. As far as our group is concerned, Invest-NL is an instrument that must operate carefully in the market and contribute to the great social transitions in society. More fundamentally, however, the question is: what is market failure? Of course, there are no free markets. Everything is regulated, with rules, subsidies, etc. And a lot of government policy has been made for the common world based on fossil energy, fossil production, agricultural exports and so on. The public authorities often have to intervene in the market in favour of the transitions, for example by praising CO, conducting other agricultural policies and implementing the energy transition. Only then will truly sustainable business cases come about and market financing will come about itself. In the circumstances, it is good that this kind of transition brings the government into the market with Invest-NL. Keeping distance between Invest-NL and the State and sufficient involvement and control of the government and parliament to ensure effective and efficient achievement of the goals is a delicate balancing act. This law is therefore crucial to ensure that the balance sheet is properly balanced and to define the objectives, tasks and criteria precisely because once Invest-NL has started, the scope for intervention is limited. Mr. Chairman. The GroenLinks Group voted in favour of this law in the Lower House. We are also inclined to support the law here. However, our final judgment depends on the responses of the rulers during this debate. We are concerned about the consistency, implementation, effectiveness and effectiveness of the law. I hope that the directors will be able to overcome these concerns by means of their answers or commitments. I'll start with our main concern right away. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has major problems with the fact that the objectives of Invest-NL are so broadly formulated. The Council of State's opinion pays close attention to this problem and calls for further tightening of targets and tasks, recommending that the Fund focus on financing initiatives and businesses in sectors where societal transitions should take place. The government is not responding to this, as is shown by the vague and broad wording in Article 3. According to that article, the aim of Invest-NL is to contribute, if the market does not provide enough, to the financing and realisation of corporate social transition statements and to the provision of access to corporate finance. The second part of this article opens the door to a wide range of investments. During the debate in the Lower House, the Minister of EZK made it clear that as far as he is concerned these two goals are secondary. This is at the heart of our objection. If these two objectives are equally relevant, does this mean that funding to all SMEs or growth-oriented SMEs that are cross-border, contributing to the Dutch economy, falls within the scope of Invest-NL? That's far too spacious and not very distinctive. Should this not be linked to sectors that contribute to societal transitions? How can this be achieved if Invest-NL competes with market players, where the identification of a mismatch between risk capital supply and demand is likely to become a paper exercise? How these two objectives relate to each other must be clarified in this debate today. It is clear that there is a financing problem for SMEs in the Netherlands, as witnessed by the latest report of the CPB of June 2019, which states that Dutch SMEs receive less bank credit than elsewhere in Europe. At the heart of the problem of financing Dutch SMEs is the fact that 90% of the credit supply is owned by a few large banks. So there is a bigger problem in the way in which our financial sector is organised and how lending takes place. In the view of GroenLinks, it is undesirable to offer access to corporate finance for a wide range of start-ups and scale-ups, without contributing to societal transitions. What measures does the government intend to take to encourage the financial sector to make more funding available to SMEs? And how will Invest-NL be prevented from being flooded by SME organisations whose credit application has previously been rejected by the private sector? The broad formulation of objectives and tasks in Article 3 may also lead to one funding contributing to an SME's social transition declarations, while another funding to a scale-up, under another objective of Article 3, achieves the opposite, given the necessary transition statements. As the law has now been formulated, this is conceivable. What instruments does the Minister have to monitor consistency between the different funding in implementation? In my group's view, consistent implementation of the law cannot be guaranteed if the two objectives are considered to be secondary. You will not be surprised that GroenLinks should contribute to the major societal transition challenges. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna stick to the consistency of the law for a while. During the treatment of the law in the Lower House, the point of focus also played an important role. With the adoption of my party colleague Van der Lee's motion, an attempt is made to articulate the importance of focusing on the energy and climate transition and to give it to the minister. From the point of consistency, this includes an explicit exclusion of companies, active in the fossil sector, for financing by Invest-NL. The argument that companies in the fossil sector can work on energy transition does not work as long as these companies continue to invest in fossil energy. It should be avoided that the limited resources that Invest-NL has available for social transition assignments could possibly be used for greenwashing of fossil industry companies. Investing in making the fossil industry more efficient may produce high returns in the short term, but it also maintains the industry and, on balance, makes a negative contribution to the long-term goal of achieving fossil-free energy and a fossil-free economy. As far as my group is concerned, this also applies to fossil waste heat, which the government regards as sustainable. The residual heat is not or hardly transportable and could just as well be generated locally in a sustainable way. Is the Minister prepared to say here that the additional agreement with Invest-NL excludes the fossil sector, including fossil waste heat? I'm considering a motion in the second term right now. I'd like a response from the rulers. My next point concerns Invest-NL's corporate social responsibility policy. Especially in view of the broad formulation of the objectives of Invest-NL and in order to avoid inconsistencies in practice in achieving the goals, CSR policy becomes even more important. The way in which CSR will take shape is still vague. Through an AMvB, the Minister of Finance has the opportunity to agree this policy, the criteria and the way in which it is applied with Invest-NL. It is certain that in the case of the secondary suitability of the two objectives, the absolute basic requirement must be for all companies financed by Invest-NL for any purpose, which must be based on a strong and consistent CSR policy. Is the Minister prepared to anchor CSR policy in legislation through a general measure of governance? Mr. Chairman. I'm here to talk about feasibility. My group sees additionality as the biggest challenge for Invest-NL. Finding market failures is not an exact mathematics. Invest-NL must be able to make the market failure plausible. Investment must not compete with market players. How does the government prevent the financial sector from evading its own responsibility in financing social transition, taking the dried grapes out of its mouth and leaving risky investments to Invest-NL too easily? The same applies to SME financing. So far, public authorities have not been able to move the financial sector towards more funding for SMEs. How will additionality be tested in practice without accommodating the financial sector, while the sector will continue to evade social responsibility? With what other policies does the government intend to encourage the financial sector to take responsibility for the two goals set by the government with the establishment of Invest-NL? EUR 1.7 billion is a lot of money, but in the light of all that is needed for the major societal transitions in the energy, climate, food and other social sectors, it is, of course, a limited amount. What if big Dutch banks continue to invest in fossil energy, intensive agriculture and polluting industry? How do we prevent the creation of Invest-NL from leading to more market failures? I'd like a reflection from the Minister. Standard yield could be another problem, but the Minister of Finance made it clear in the Lower House that in the early stages no return requirements will be formulated for Invest-NL and that standards will later be defined on the basis of actual and realistic returns. That's what we're content with. I also have a question about the other two tasks besides the direct investment by Invest-NL, namely the development task and the task of implementing the schemes. We understand that separate subsidiaries will be set up for all three tasks. How will consistency between these three tasks be monitored? Or will the three companies operate in isolation? Invest-NL will receive a grant of 10 million from the Ministry of EZK to carry out the development task. Will the development task be aimed at making companies mature for their contribution to the social transition or will the development task be wider? What are the opportunities of any other parties to qualify for this grant? How will the quality and effectiveness of Invest-NL's development task be assessed? Is there any possibility that other parties will also be eligible for this subsidy? If there is no relationship between the development task and the investment task, why is it relevant that Invest-NL also has a development task? Do I understand correctly from the answers given by the Minister to the House of Representatives that no grant schemes will be implemented by Invest-NL for the time being? Can the Minister also explain the amended Article 4c as a result of the Veldman amendment? What are grant decisions concerning market-based financing? Are subsidies not, by definition, not market-based? We would like to hear an explanation from the Minister on the relationship between the various tasks of Invest-NL. This bill does not provide for a role for an external, independent supervisor. Why is that? Will the General Court have full and independent access to all information on the policies and implementation at and by Invest-NL? Can the Minister promise that all evaluations and possible reports of the General Court will also be sent to the Supreme Court? Finally, Mr President. The State is setting up a new state shareholding. The State is 100% shareholder. The State appoints the members of the Governing Board, the chairman of which is present in our midst, and the members of the Supervisory Board. We know of two intended presidents of these bodies. They're certainly competent men, but they're still men. It is disappointing that in none of these top positions a woman has been appointed. The State has an important responsibility for the appointment of women in top positions. Can the ministers explain why two more gentlemen have been appointed and what policy is the government pursuing to achieve diversity in appointments? Furthermore, it is important that diversity becomes an important criterion in Invest-NL's investment policy. Mr. Chairman. My final question concerns the international branch. Where are we on the other side, namely the creation of a new entity for international tasks by the State and the FMO? During the debate in the Lower House following the input of MPs from various political groups, the Minister of EZK saw an animal that can walk, fly and swim at the same time. The Minister knows that's impossible. If the two goals of Invest-NL continue to exist as secondary goals, I fear that an animal will be born that can neither walk, nor fly, nor swim, but that may crawl at most. And that for 1.7 billion euros.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u6	Thank you, Mrs Karimi. Congratulations on your maiden speech. Allow me to outline some of your background. In Isfahan, Iran, you studied for industrial designer. During your student days, you joined the Volksmudjahedien, a resistance movement that started an armed struggle against ayatollah Khomeini. Over that period, you said many years later: "Under certain circumstances, even an intelligent person is apparently receptive to radical ideas." In 1986, you broke off ties with the organization. You had fled from Iran to Germany by now. In 1989 you came to the Netherlands with your family. This means that you will be in the Netherlands for 30 years this year. At the University of Groningen you then studied Policy and Governance in international organisations. Soon you became administratively active as a board member of Refugee Organisations Netherlands, of General Social Work in Groningen and of Transact, the national expertise center of gender-specific care and sexual violence. Since 1994, you have been coordinator of Aisa for four years, a project for emancipation and support of migrant and refugee women. In 1998 you became the first refugee to become a member of the Lower House of the States-General for GroenLinks. You said you'd stay there until 2006. In 2003, you and two colleagues from PvdA and D66 presented an initiative legislative proposal to hold a consultative referendum on the Constitutional Treaty for the European Union. The proposal was adopted in this Chamber at the beginning of January 2005 and the referendum took place in June of the same year. For more than ten years, you were Director of Oxfam Novib. In the meantime, you are among others a member of the Advisory Board of the Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research (NWO), Chairman of the Board of Writers Unlimited, member of the Supervisory Board NHL Stenden Hogeschool and moderator of Comenius Leadership Course. You said in 2006 in an interview: "Democracy in the Netherlands is worth fighting for." You'll continue with that in the First Chamber. Once again, welcome. We look forward to your further input. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Huffelen for her maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u7	Mr. Chairman. I would like to congratulate Mrs Karimi and Mr Van der Linden on their maiden speeches. Almost immediately after the end of the Second World War, Minister of Finance Lieftinck founded the Society to finance the National Recovery. The aim of this recovery bank was not only to drive the economy in the Netherlands, but also to receive Marshall help. The recovery bank was later transformed into the National Investment Bank, to which I personally have good memories because I lived in my senior year with one of the board members. Despite its important contribution, the government privatised this bank at the end of the 1990s. Unlike other European countries, the Netherlands no longer has a national investment bank. Why is such an institution now up to date again? From my group's point of view, this is mainly due to a changing picture of the role of government in stimulating economic development. In the 1980s and 1990s, neoliberalism prevailed. The economic crisis of 2008 and the increasing power of multinational Internet companies have increased the need for government intervention in the economy. From the point of view of D66 this is also a good thing, because the market needs not only a good market master and regulation for the protection of individuals and the State, but also because the market needs incentives and support here and there, for areas or activities that are not naturally caught by the market. Think of combating climate change, investing in sustainable agriculture or innovations in health and education. I have therefore taken note with great interest of the draft law on the establishment of Invest-NL. With the creation of this fund, the government will again take on a task that has been left to the market since the 1990s. My group has raised a number of questions in connection with this legislative proposal, clustered into four themes. First of all, we have questions about the objective and the focus of the fund. The fund has a broad field of activity: climate, agriculture, energy, care and education. That has just been referred to. It has thus acquired the character of an all-man friend. That is where the potential weakness lies. In the absence of sufficient focus, the situation may arise that, while cost-effective projects are being promoted, no impetus is being given to the desired social transition. How will the government ensure that individual investments within the fund are coordinated in such a way, for example in the form of a programme, that a social movement or transition is promoted? Can the government also include specific provisions in the supplementary agreement, for example? The fund has a dual set-up: on the one hand, the financing of social transfers, on the other hand, the provision of access to business finance for start-ups and scale-ups. These general corporate financing may potentially run counter to the desired transitions. For example, investments could be made in CO reduction and at the same time in fossil technologies. My question to the government is how it can ensure that Invest-NL's investments are prevented from countering the policy objectives desired by the government. And how can this be prevented in the longer term? Invest-NL aims to support investments that are not made in the market. At the same time, the fund must comply with state aid rules, maintain its assets and achieve a standard return. The fund will never be the only investor. This limits the scope for manoeuvre of the Fund. Moreover, a large amount of capital is currently available in the market. I understand that the intended chairman of the board of directors is sitting here in the Chamber here in order to take stock of what investments might be eligible. Can the government indicate whether this initial inventory has already provided sufficient potential investment opportunities? The government has announced that it will set up another fund alongside Invest-NL. D66 calls that the future fund. My group will be happy to discuss this with the government during the financial discussions. In the context of the current law on Invest-NL, we stress that the future fund will have to distinguish itself from this fund. I shall now turn to the issue of governance. During the discussion on the establishment, many questions were asked about how the activities can be monitored and adjusted if necessary. To this end, the government deploys various instruments, namely the statutes and an additional agreement with the Minister of EZK, as well as progress reports and evaluations. But in what way can best control be given? In my experience in government, in business and as a supervisor, I have learned that steering on trust is the most effective way of steering. This means giving space to the Board of Directors of Invest-NL to make this fund a success. However, trusting is not the same as letting go of everything, but simply steering on the basis of two key elements: setting specific KPIs or targets to be assessed in advance, as well as concrete principles to be respected by the fund, such as corporate social responsibility. These KPIs and principles are announced in the Supplementary Agreement, but it is not yet clear which ones will be used. What are the main KPIs and principles that the government wants to establish and how is the success of the fund determined? Can our Chamber be informed about this? According to the statutes, the Management Board requires the approval of the shareholder for investments above a certain amount. This could lead to a double control. What criteria does the Minister of Finance, as shareholder, intend to grant his approval and how does he coordinate with the Minister of Economic Affairs in this respect? I'm moving on to the topic of cooperation. The success of the Fund will depend, inter alia, on the extent to which companies can make use of European programmes through this fund and the extent to which it can connect to regional development companies' programmes, the ROMs. My experience in Brabant and Rotterdam has shown the importance of cooperation between regional development agencies, governments, entrepreneurs and scientific institutes. By helping with locations, permits and access to directors and knowledge institutes, companies can flourish. It is not for nothing that the most successful innovative companies often cluster in places with such infrastructure; I am thinking of Eindhoven and Rotterdam. Can the government indicate how it intends to shape cooperation with the ROMs, especially where there are no ROMs, such as in Amsterdam? In the light of the above, the role of Invest-NL is not only to be an investor, but also to act as a director and coordinator to combat market failures. As far as my group is concerned, this role of Invest-NL may be more important than the role of investor. Can the government provide more insight into how it sees the role of this fund in practice? What activities are involved and what percentage of the Fund's activities is used for this each year? The government also aims to cooperate with private investors and participate Invest-NL in other funds. Can the government indicate how it sees cooperation with pension funds in this context, partly in view of the desire for more investment of pension funds in the Netherlands? I move on to the fourth block, corporate social responsibility and diversity. My group strongly believes that the most ambitious CSR criteria apply to both the organisation of Invest-NL itself and the organisations in which it invests. Almost my entire working life I deal with this subject, from CO reduction programmes at the Ministry of VROM to wind farms at Essent, and from my aldermanship sustainability in Rotterdam to the realisation of an emission-free CFP. Recently it has also been shown how important this issue is on a global scale, where I am thinking of extreme weather conditions, as well as on a Dutch scale, where I am thinking of the nitrogen debate. But not only the green side of CSR is important. The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and OECD indicators are based on a much broader understanding of CSR, for example in the areas of health, poverty reduction and employment. Can the government indicate how it will ensure that the most ambitious CSR criteria will be used for both Invest-NL and the organisations in which it will invest? And has the Minister of Finance, following his commitment to this in the House of Representatives, already developed proposals to apply these criteria to all state participations? In addition to diversity in general, based on gender, age, ethnicity, sexual orientation and religion, I am committed to the women's cause. This subject was also discussed in the Lower House in the light of Invest-NL, but I would like to mention it again here. It is about diversity within Invest-NL and diversity within the companies in which it invests, because it is socially desirable to allow everyone to participate and because it brings great economic benefits. There's no reason to believe it's gonna happen on its own. Otherwise this issue would have been resolved in the generation of my parents, who are here in the gallery. With my great example Simone de Beauvoir and in the footsteps of Els Borst, I would like to ask the government to keep a close eye on this principle. The transition of our society is too important to leave to men alone. I look forward to the government answering our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u8	Mrs Van Huffelen, congratulations on your maiden speech. Taking part in today's debate on a bill for investment in energy transition, sustainability and mobility should not be a surprise given your background. Allow me to outline some of that background. After studying Public Administration at the University of Leiden and Erasmus University Rotterdam, you started as a senior policy officer at the Ministry of Housing, Spatial Planning and Environment (VROM) the current Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment (IenM). In the Ministry, you dealt with the CO reduction plan, among other things. From that moment on, energy and sustainability will be a central feature of your career. From 1997 to 2000 you were director of the Energy Project Bureau 2050, which was involved in promoting renewable energy in North Brabant. Then you worked for ten years in various positions at Essent, including as director of the New Energy Essent business unit. In May 2010 you became alderman of Rotterdam for D66, with as portfolio sustainability, inner city and outdoor space. Sustainability in a port city like Rotterdam seems to be a contradiction, but you said about this: "It is a myth that large companies are against sustainability; they also see that the world is going to change and that Rotterdam needs to go with it." Since 2014 you have completed "sustainability" in a different way. You are the Managing Director of the Municipal Transport Company in Amsterdam. You are also a member of the Mobility Table of the Climate Agreement, of the Policy Board of the Union Internationale des Transports Publics and of the Board of Railforum Netherlands. From 2015 to 2016 you were also chairman of the Cyclists Association. Mobility and sustainability also play a role in your private life. This way you cycle every summer for two weeks with your husband per tandem. Your brother said about this, in Het Financieele Dagblad: "Then they easily kick 100 kilometers a day. Typical Alexandra: always wanting to keep up the momentum." Or, to talk to Albert Einstein: "Life is like riding a bike: to keep your balance, you have to keep moving." Once again, welcome. We look forward to your further input. Thank you. I shall then suspend the sitting for a few moments so that all Members who have made their maiden speech in the first term can be congratulated. I would ask Mr Van der Linden, Mrs Karimi and Mrs Van Huffelen to stand up for the rostrum so that all the other colleagues can congratulate you, and I congratulate you first as President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u9	I give the floor to Mrs Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u10	Mr. Chairman. I warmly congratulate Mr Van der Linden, Mrs Karimi and Mrs Van Huffelen on their maiden speech and look forward to debating with them over the next four years. Mr. Chairman. The establishment of the National Investment Bank is a long-cherished wish of the SP. We are therefore pleased to be able to discuss this with the ministers today. We would have liked to have this law earlier, when the crisis closed everything and it was impossible to find funding for innovative ideas. The past Cabinets have had little interest in an investment bank. That is why we are surprised that so much pressure has suddenly been put on the handling of this bill. What's the reason it all suddenly had to be so fast? What could be the need after all these years? I would like to clarify this point. Mr. Chairman. This bill already has a difficult history in this Chamber. Before any democratic decision was taken, there was a lot of movement around Invest-NL. This Chamber has repeatedly expressed its concern about this. The cabinet assured us time and time again that no irreversible steps are being taken and that Invest-NL can make an unburdened start, in accordance with the frameworks and framework conditions to be finally established by the parliament. At the same time, the Minister said that the services of Invest-NL cannot be waited, because the demand was urgent. But if investment or loans were to be made, then they would be placed on the Invest-NL balance sheet after the formation of Invest-NL, the Chamber was assured. That brings me to three questions. Isn't that a de facto irreversible step? Can the Minister tell me how many such projects have been put forward for funding to this day and how many and up to what amount have been financed projects ahead of the formal establishment of Invest-NL? So what kind of projects was it about? The Minister mentions a series of issues that in his view may cause market failures, such as non-existent cooperation and regulatory risks. That is why, in his view, we need to get Invest-NL. Do I understand correctly that the Minister says that there are always risks in the provision of capital and that we have for the uneconomic top programmes? But this is a combination of uncertainties that no investor wants to deal with. I'd like an answer from the Minister. The Minister also indicated earlier that the objectives of Invest-NL are very broad. He wants that width not to put Invest-NL up with obstacles, precisely because this is a market failure. It seems as if the Minister is trying to prevent us from ending up here in a so-called catch 22. Yes, an investment bank to help others find the risk too high, but without unnecessary risks. So we can't. We all understand that here. And yet, because of the way this process has gone, blind trust is no longer possible. The Group of the Party of European Socialists therefore welcomes the unanimous support for the Mulder/Amhaouch amendment to guarantee the democratic control of Invest-NL. It is a pity, however, that it has had to come up with an amendment. There was, and there is, broad support for this idea, but the Chamber must then itself regulate democratic control. How do the ministers themselves ultimately look back on that process? When we create an investment opportunity with public money, we do so because the return must ultimately benefit society. And, of course, strengthening the economy, creating jobs and improving the position of SMEs is good for society as a whole. But we also see a number of major challenges facing us, the energy transition of which is seen as a very important one. The SP Group lacks a clear focus in the legislative text in this area. Why didn't the minister choose this? Would it not have been desirable to have established that the public authorities would invest in projects that have social added value or need? I'd like the Minister's vision. The Minister mentions a number of issues in the explanatory statement and I also understand that we need to give Invest-NL some creative space. But we're just trying to prevent excesses, aren't we? I believe that Mr Van der Linden has mentioned a number of nice ones. Do we not run the risk that in a few years' time on the list of successful or unsuccessful projects there will be a number of things that every sane person thinks: how? I'd like to hear how the Minister thinks he'll avoid this. The broad approach raises the question of how Invest-NL will organise the assessment of all the projects submitted. In other words, how do we prevent Invest-NL from becoming a waterhead? The Minister sees the solution in hiring expertise. How does he intend to prevent this from happening at towering rates? A great deal has already been said about governance, including by the General Court of Auditors. On this point, my group would like to hear a further clarification of the concept of 'diversity'. In the Lower House, attention has been paid to the composition of the Supervisory Board and the Minister has undertaken to pay close attention to this and to see it broader than the composition of the gender. May I conclude from that that he also looks at the background of the members of the council? A broad task, as widely formulated, also includes supervision with a broad background. I would like a commitment from the Minister on this point. I am sure the ministers are well aware that my group was surprised at the appointment of a chairman of the board even before the legislative proposal was put forward. The chairman of the board was hired as a quarter-minute maker to give Invest-NL a flying start. How this organisation should take shape and what its tasks would be, still had to be democratically legitimised. My group has left abdominal pain to that process. It is not the most beautiful form of political action. It is exemplary for the whole process, as well as the organisation Invest-NL. This cabinet actually says, "Trust us, we'll take care of it." If it turns out that the chairman of the board is not covered by the beaming standard, it is more than acidic. Then something really did not go well and it almost seems that the contract was signed early in order to prevent that demand from being put on the table by the parliaments. It is incomprehensible to my group why this function should not be subject to the Top Income Standards Act. I am considering a motion on this point and would like to hear the Minister's argument as to why the WNT does not apply here. For the SP, it is important that SMEs in particular benefit from Invest-NL. Accessibility plays an important role in this. Large companies have by definition more time and money for and experience in making investment applications. How are we going to prevent large companies from hijacking the funds, because the road to Invest-NL is too complicated for SMEs? I would like some clarification on that. Mr. Chairman. That leaves me with one point. I would like to know what the difference is now going to be with the investment fund of several tens of billions of dollars, we are just calling it the Hoekstra/Wiebes fund that is yet to come, or at least we think it is going to come. Perhaps the Minister himself will come up with this in his reply. We'd like to hear more about that. If that fund gets there, do we still need Invest-NL? Or are these funds complementary and if so, how? Now it is true that Invest-NL is still more of an investment bank that is going to lend money which ultimately has to be repaid. The investment fund would then have to borrow money from the government to invest in large-scale projects. Has this been interpreted so well? 'Cause then it could be one thing next to the other. As far as my group is concerned, some clarification is still desirable here. I look forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u11	Thank you, Mrs Gerkens. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Teunissen on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u12	Mr. Chairman. The Animal Party warmly congratulates Mr Van der Linden, Mrs Karimi and Mrs Van Huffelen on their maiden speech. Unlimited economic growth on a planet that doesn't grow along is a tricky concept. The earth offers a lot of rack in the form of an advance on the future, and to people like us who think we can afford to consume as if we have three and a half globe at our disposal. But occasionally a voice in our head says that it can only do so if someone else on this planet compensates for it, by consuming it as if only half or a quarter of the globe were available. We, lucky seekers since the Golden Age, have managed well for ourselves, but should also have some sense of responsibility. A starting point of the Party for Animals is that economic development must take place within the capacity of the earth. The ecological crisis and the climate crisis make this starting point more urgent than ever. The big question for my group is therefore today: does Invest-NL contribute to a robust economy within the ecological boundaries? The legislative proposal looks sympathetic: financing risky business activities in the field of major societal transition challenges in terms of energy, sustainability, mobility, food and digitalisation of industry and social areas such as care, safety and education. A public-private institution is a welcome means of solving social and sustainability problems. Invest-NL could launch risky projects with a 20-year horizon in the field of renewable energy and gradually withdraw as the market enters. Greetings! These are real solutions that, for example, ensure that the Netherlands complies with the Paris climate agreement. Unfortunately, however, the bill does not provide any guarantee for this, nor does the States General have control and control tools for this. The role of Invest-NL in transition assignments is not clear. The proposal lacks clear criteria and strict monitoring. In addition, the second objective is very broad, namely to give Invest-NL access to business finance for SMEs and SMEs that transcend. Making a contribution to the Dutch economy is the second objective of this bill. Apparently, the cabinet can't help but let its return ideas be all over the place. For that is the reasoning, that investment must of course contribute to economic growth, earning power and more employment. It doesn't matter what jobs are created, even if they are jobs in the fossil, livestock, fashion or waste industries, as long as they contribute to employment. This shows an amorous short-term vision. The ecological limits are not an integral condition in this proposal, but they are merely a by-product, a fine side effect if that is the case. Funding projects may contribute to the solution, but they are just as much part of the problem. Do the Ministers share the view of the Animal Party that the first objective, which is to contribute to major transitions, such as the energy transition and the second objective, can contribute to the Dutch economy, be contrary to each other? There are no clear criteria, as well as insight into those projects where there is "market failure" and for which Invest-NL has an additional value. Even after the debate in the Lower House, an important question remains which gap in the market Invest-NL should fill. For example, what are the risky projects within the food transition that the market is currently not picking up? And what purpose does the government set itself in this regard? The Council of State has pointed out to the government the need for adequate objectives, tasks and criteria for the functioning of Invest-NL. Where the market operates, the board states, Invest-NL, and hence the use of collective resources, has no added value and Invest-NL's action leads to market distortion. The Advisory Section therefore considers it necessary both for the accountability to the States General and for the audit by the General Court to be accurate and focus on responsibilities. That too broad legal objectives and frameworks can lead to waste of public resources and unwanted market interventions, show results from other public-private institutions. First of all, I had some difficulty finding results, so there are lessons to be learned in terms of transparency. I was trying to figure out what the public funds of other public-private institutions of the Ministry of Economic Affairs were spent on. Het Financieele Dagblad also found that this is still a difficult task. In 2017 the newspaper investigated the public-private investments of Dutch Venture Initiative (DVI). And what's pale? Government money went to a wonderful mix of extravagant bras, dresses, beer, watches and pipelines for the oil and gas industry. All this under the pretext of financing innovative SMEs with market failures. You can say that; "market failure" gets a very harsh meaning. How is the government going to prevent public money being spent on matters that have no social added value, without stricter criteria and tighter supervision? Can the Minister indicate how he will avoid non-additional expenditure in this context? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. A different picture of realised return thinking is the market-based return requirement for Invest-NL. This requirement is inconsistent with the ambition to be additional and resolve market failures. Does the Minister recognise that there is tension between the financing of projects that the market does not itself pick up and a market-based return on the standard? What standard yield is the government considering? Is it thinking of a margin between 10% and 15%, which is common in the private finance world, or is it going to sit under it and give guarantees that Invest-NL will remain out of the ordinary market? Mr. Chairman. As far as the objective of making investments possible for social transition missions is concerned, my group believes that stricter legal criteria are needed to ensure that co-financing actually contributes to solutions to these transition missions, particularly for the climate crisis and the environmental crisis, given its urgency. All the investments we make now with public money must fit into a final picture of a fossil-free society: a robust economy within the capacity of the earth. What makes this difficult is that with the current climate plans, the cabinet is heading for 3°C warming. The solutions presented by this cabinet include fossil-era remains, such as biomass and residual heat from the oil and livestock industries. In addition, the sustainability of livestock farming is often referred to as pot-tight megas, so that animals never see the light of day and pigs literally have a breathtaking life in their own ammonia emissions. From an inclusive world view these are not solutions that lead to a living earth for humans and animals. In our view, therefore, the cabinet uses solutions that do not really help the climate. As far as the Animal Party is concerned, it is necessary to establish clear criteria for risky long-term financing from the final picture: a fossil-free, sustainable society. For this purpose, it is necessary, among other things, to exclude fossil investments from financing by Invest-NL. To our question whether investments in the fossil industry are excluded from the investment portfolio, the government replied in writing that Invest-NL may be able to support large and small companies from the fossil industry that want to transform into the use of renewable energy generation, to reduced use of fossil energy and/or to the use of industrial residual heat. So this is typically an example of how things can go wrong. The fossil sector should be excluded from funding. Today's fossil yields are hardly feasible in the sustainable sector. If Invest-NL continues to invest in fossil, these returns remain high and there is less chance for other investors, real green investors and investors to reinvest their fossil investment in sustainable investments. Fossil residual heat, for example provided in the heat roundabout, also depresses developments of sustainable sectors from the market. Anyone who has a EUR 1 billion refinery can afford less investment security if it also allows longer use of the money already invested. A sustainable solution must be assured that the investment will be fully recovered over the depreciation period. As the supply of fossil waste heat serves a greater importance, namely the preservation of the fossil investment from the past, this residual heat can be delivered below cost and thus reduce sustainable investment from the market. This means that for our heat supply we remain dependent on the fossil industry for much longer than the climate can afford. Does the Minister agree with my group that investment in the fossil industry will lead to the extension of that fossil industry and the release of alternatives from the market?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u13	What we hear from the Party for Animals all makes sense. You are talking about a company that, or an entrepreneur that is active in the total domain of the fossil industry or of fossil activities. But let me now take a practical example: that our infrastructure, which is based on the transport of natural gas, a fossil fuel, should be converted into, to name but a few, hydrogen. You actually think that, apart from the idea, such a concept is by definition not eligible for a contribution. Of course, it's mega-investments to make the transition you're all aiming for possible. But you're actually saying, "I don't want to do that."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u14	To answer this question, I have to say that fossil companies that make sustainable investments often do not invest more than 1% of their total turnover in sustainability and at the same time wish to continue with fossil investment as long as possible. If you then say as a government "we're going to help you; we're also going to support the sustainable investments of fossil companies," you're actually giving a reward for greenwashing. That's one. Two. For example, billions of companies, I call Shell, have enough turnover and enough prospects to make those sustainable investments themselves. Those billions of companies don't need government subsidies at all. Those who do need it are the truly innovative companies. For example, there is a huge potential for heat storage. New innovative companies are in the process of doing so, but the techniques for doing so are not yet sufficiently developed. The Party for Animals then says: give the subsidy to those truly sustainable innovative companies that want proven, genuine green measures, but that are not yet coming out of the market. Mr President, as I see it, I think I can continue with my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u15	Please reconsider your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u16	Mr. Chairman. I was talking about excluding fossil investments. Furthermore, according to the current criteria, the export of the Dutch megastal can also be financed without difficulty by Invest-NL. The cabinet seems to support this. During the General Political Reviews, the Prime Minister told us with pride how he and the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan discuss how the Netherlands can help to further strengthen the agricultural sector in Kazakhstan, based on Dutch practice. And the tender for Dutch companies to expand the dairy sector in Morocco has now been opened for Dutch companies. When I see in the draft agreement that sustainability is one of the frameworks, I very much wonder what the cabinet means by'sustaining livestock farming'. That could mean a lot of things. If you look at the agreement with Morocco, this may also mean that we are naming dairy farms that are intensively trained and that are bad for animal welfare and emissions, in the context of the sustainability of livestock farming. According to the Party for Animals, we shouldn't want that. If we look within the ecological limits, we can't afford that. The Animal Party has therefore also asked the government to introduce a climate and environmental test for each loan to be granted by Invest-NL, whereby climate and environmental activities and activities affecting animal welfare are not eligible for award, and activities that have a positive impact on animal welfare, climate, nature or environment give priority to other applications. The cabinet is failing because Invest-NL would already apply a comprehensive set of criteria that projects would have to meet before they were eligible for funding. The sustainability of livestock farming is one of the criteria I have just mentioned. According to the cabinet, it will not engage in activities that increase climate and environmental damage and damage animal welfare. Support for the climate and energy transition is expected to be one of the main objectives of the strategy. But this bill does not offer any guarantee to that effect, nor does the draft agreement. They in no way exclude the use of biomass, manure digesters, fossil residual heat and export of the livestock industry abroad. Mr. Chairman. Then the government's written reply to the question of the Party for Animals or the government on the basis of the MHP case that is the Ukrainian mega-chicken company can explain how it can be ensured that investment from Invest-NL can never lead to damage to public health, the environment and sustainability through the use of public money, as was the case with plofkippenfabrieken like MHP. The government's response to this is not promising very well. My group wants to prevent a repetition of Invest-NL by learning from what went wrong with public investments, such as in that mega-chicken company, by investment funds such as the International Finance Corporation. The Minister replied that after the establishment of Invest-NL several measures were taken to ensure that these investments met the highest environmental requirements, including in the case of the chicken farm. This design would be designed to ensure that Invest-NL does not invest in such companies. But the problem is that the States-General cannot control this design because these frameworks have not yet been designed. As far as my group is concerned, the interests of animal welfare, sustainability, public health and the environment must be anchored at the front. The above answer to the question about MHP is therefore completely inadequate and does not correspond to the objective of contributing to societal transition challenges. On the contrary, investment by Invest-NL could also be part of the problem rather than the solution. As no criteria have been laid down by law, Parliament cannot direct this. As far as my group is concerned, that is unacceptable. How is the government going to ensure that real green investments are not fake but are made within the ecological limits? I'd like to be persuaded by the ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u17	Thank you, Mrs Teunissen. I shall then give the floor to Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u18	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Van der Linden, Mr Karimi and Mr Van Huffelen on their maiden speeches. I am particularly pleased with the progressive understanding of the Group of the Forum for Democracy. On 21 May last, Mr Baudet and Mr Hiddema voted in favour of the Authorisation Act Invest-NL, but I notice that there is progressive insight on the part of Forum. I'm glad. It is therefore a good thing that I have requested this debate on Invest-NL. Mr. Chairman. "It was a grabbelton, and that's what it is now." These are not my words, but those of former PvdA chamber member Lutz Jacobi, also director of the Wadden Society. Lutz Jacobi recently told Investico, a platform for investigative journalism by EenVandaag, the Dagblad van het Noorden, the Leeuwarder Courant and De Groene Amsterdammer. This journalistic platform did extensive research on the Wadden Fund. That is a fund that was founded thirteen years ago under the inspiring leadership of PvdA-prominent Wim Meijer, supposedly to strengthen the Wadden region. No less than 800 million euros of tax money has been largely wasted in thirteen years on vague projects, such as a blacklight glow golf course, for those who know what that might be, on Terschelling, a 30 meter high pavilion in Lauwersoog, whose construction has now been shut down, at the request of nature and environmental organisations, and not to mention the restoration of an organ in the Frisian Parrega and the Heidense Kapel foundation for the development of a pilgrim route. There are over 200 other similar to the imagination projects, which have little to do with strengthening the Wadden region. We wanted to make the Wadden region bigger, stronger and more robust. That didn't happen. I'm not saying that, but that tweeted the spiritual father of the Wadden Fund, former PvdA Secretary of State Meijer. Politicians spent years spending money on projects of this kind, often with multiple administrative hats, and the taxpayer had checked. Mr. Chairman. History is now in danger of repeating itself. It seems that politics is unable to learn from mistakes made. Now they want to give ex-PvdA-prominent Wouter Bos, who is present here, as much as 2.5 billion euros of taxpayers' money to play for national transition interclassics. And the Black Piet ends up with the Dutch taxpayer later. You don't need a glass ball for that. I shall come back to this later in my speech. I have asked questions to the Minister for Economic Affairs about the Authorisation Act Invest-NL in several ways. The answer was often rather general and not always specific. That is why I have a number of specific questions for the Minister on the Invest-NL Authorisation Act. First of all, can the Minister explain when he thinks there is a market failure? Because it is precisely because of this market failure that Invest-NL was created. What is the Minister specifically referring to? What is his definition of "market failure"? How is the objective of achieving a good return on Invest-NL's investments compatible with investing where the market fails? The Council of State also points out this in the opinion of the Authorisation Act. Indeed, the Board states "that the formulation of adequate objectives, tasks and criteria for the functioning of Invest-NL is essential for a meaningful use of this investment instrument. Indeed, where the market operates, Invest-NL and therefore the use of collective resources have no added value and action by Invest-NL leads to market distortion." According to the Council of State in its opinion of 26 October 2018. How will the Minister prevent Invest-NL from investing in uneconomic projects the market is not interested in? I also have a question for the Minister about the DVI-I and DVI-II funds. I've heard several people about it. I've also spoken to a number of people. Apparently they're all spoken in English, the Dutch Venture Initiatives, so DVI-I and -II. These are currently held by the regional development company Oost, and are, according to the explanatory memorandum, suspended to Invest-NL, including the associated loans. My question to the Minister for Economic Affairs is: what appreciation will this take place and how will any book profits or losses be settled between Invest-NL and the regional East company? Recently, Het Financieele Dagblad published an overview of the investments of the DVI funds after an extensive study. It's already been memorized. In addition to investments in the lingerie of Marlies Dekkers and in Jopenbier, there is also a strong investment in the company CHRONEXT.com. This is a Swiss webshop for exclusive Rolex watches, with as co-investors Joop van den Ende and Reinout Oerlemans among others. Does the Minister consider that Invest-NL should use Dutch tax money for this type of investment which can clearly be left to the market, given these well-known co-investors? Or, according to the Minister, is there a market failure here? Then we come to one of the most important aspects of Invest-NL on which I would like to receive further information from the Minister in the short term, if possible before the second period of this debate begins. This concerns the crucial additional agreement between the State and Invest-NL, which specifies the objectives and tasks of Invest-NL. We would like to receive this additional agreement for evaluation as soon as possible. First of all, it is very doubtful whether such an additional agreement is the appropriate instrument for this purpose. The Council of State also has serious doubts about this. I quote: "The objective definition and definition of the tasks of Invest-NL in the legislative text are much wider than intended. (...) The fact that the additional agreement is intended to provide for a more precise definition does not alter this, since this agreement is reciprocal. Thus, it is partly dependent on the board of Invest-NL itself what the content of the agreement will be." The Council of State therefore concludes that the Additional Agreement is "not an appropriate instrument for further delineation." I would like a response from the Minister to these objections from the Council of State. Invest-NL needs to invest where market failures exist, but it also needs to achieve a certain standard return. It is unclear what the level of this standard yield is. Can the Minister give us some clarification on this? And then we come to the point that, in addition to distributing 2.5 billion taxpayers' money, Invest-NL is also charged with the implementation of various grant schemes. This quickly creates the risk of conflict of interest because of the coherence between grant tasks on the one hand and investment tasks on the other. The Council of State also sees this problem and recommends that the funding tasks should not be transferred to Invest-NL but elsewhere. What is the current state of affairs on this issue, I ask the Minister. Then we come to the question of state aid. Is the EU's research on this now fully completed? All complaints to the EU regarding Invest-NL have been dealt with, including DVI, and all complaints submitted to the ACM have been dealt with, I ask the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Now I come to an important point, which is quite crucial in this discussion, namely the investment track record of Wouter Bos, the intended CEO of Invest-NL. If I have read the draft Statute correctly, I believe I must say that it is intended to be the chairman of the Governing Council. This is because there are some comments to be made. Now we are fortunate that some of the major investment decisions in which Wouter Bos was intensively involved and in which Mr Bos was ultimately responsible have now been thoroughly investigated, namely by the parliamentary committee of inquiry Financial System, also known as "De Wit Committee," which conducted research into the actions of, among others, the Minister of Finance during the financial crisis of 2008, but also by the General Court, which did extensive research into the reckless takeover of E.ON's German high-voltage grids by the 100% State-owned company TenneT at the end of 2009. Let us begin with the conclusions of the De Wit Committee. The report of the De Wit Committee covers more than 700 pages, but with regard to the main conclusions on the action of the then Minister of Finance, we read among other things: "There is no doubt that too much has been paid for the Dutch parts of Fortis from an economic point of view. (...) Lacks in the exchange of information have had costly consequences. (...) Important information that was available was not included in the valuations. These items have proved to be the main causes of subsequent additional costs." It also surprises the De Wit Committee "that no attention has been paid to the consortium agreements, in which the agreements between the consortium partners were established." Those were the three parties that broke up ABN AMRO, as you may remember. "Basal questions were not asked by the final leaders, for example whether the parts were sufficiently capitalised, the question of the status of the division of ABN AMRO and the question of possible bodies in the closet." In addition, the De Wit Committee concludes that then Minister of Finance Bos informed the Chamber too late at all stages of the process of the acquisition of Fortis and ABN AMRO. So much for the De Wit parliamentary committee of inquiry. An important investment decision that has attracted less attention to the general public but which may have a huge impact on the Dutch taxpayer is the acquisition of the obsolete German high-voltage grids, called Transpower, from the German energy group E.ON, which were purchased in 2009 by the Dutch 100% State-owned TenneT for an amount of 885 million. I remember at the time I was very surprised at this takeover, which clearly brought enormous risks to the Dutch state and to the Dutch taxpayer. At the time, I immediately remembered the well-known saying of the investment guru Warren Buffett. He says, "if you're doing a deal and you cannot figure out who the sucker is in the deal, the sucker is you." That immediately occurred to me in this case when this happened in 2009-2010, because there appeared to be huge commitments to this deal. The General Court investigated the purchase of the German high-voltage grid by TenneT in 2015. I just had to ask the President for his permission to present this report to you in response to Mr Van Rooij's book last week, which I received. Supervision of the Empire's public interest is called the investigation. I'll show you a postcard from the investigation, and you'll have an indication. That little blue country is the Netherlands. TenneT bought the entire German energy grid in a sense of pride. What was not sufficiently realised at TenneT and at the Ministry of Finance, where Wouter Bos was then the minister responsible, is that investment commitments of as much as EUR 35 billion are accompanied by this acquisition of 885 million. That is another serious lever: you spend EUR 885 million and you get EUR 35 billion in commitments on sale. That is a huge amount, about 10% of the Dutch public debt. More than €2,000 per inhabitant of the Netherlands: 35 billion divided by 17 million is €2,000 per Dutchman. Thanks to Wouter Bos as a result of a bunch of overconfident TenneT managers with a sense of pride. Compared to this, Invest-NL's 2.5 billion is just a shell. The General Court has examined in detail the decision-making process surrounding Transpower and also the involvement of the Ministry of Finance. The conclusions are dramatic. If there was any investment in a market failure situation, it is here. The Court finds: "The Minister of Finance recognised the financial risks; these were initially reasons for him to doubt the purchase. The Minister has tried to cover the risks by attaching conditions to the financing. However, these agreements have not been agreed in writing. As a result, the State has run the risk of having to use money from the Treasury to enable investment in Germany and is still at risk." The national attorney had also pointed out in detail the risks to the State. Like the De Wit Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry, the General Court of Auditors concludes that the Minister of Finance should have given the Lower House more insight into the purchase of Transpower and the associated financial risks to the State: l'histoire se répète. Also the omens are not good. Although Invest-NL does not even officially exist yet, it was announced on 4 July 2019 that Invest-NL has concluded an ICT contract until the year 2037.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u19	I have a question for Mr Otten. He continues on the intended chairman of the fund to be set up. If there were another chairman of the board, would the Otten Group be in favour of setting up Invest-NL?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u20	In the current setting we are against this fund anyway, but with this board chairman it does not get any less, given his track record. But I'm also talking about the omens: where are we now? Although Invest-NL does not even officially exist yet, a contract was signed on 4 July until the year 2037 which is an 18-year contract for ICT services. We were stunned when we saw that. Who's gonna sign a contract for 18 years right now? A public procurement website showed that there were two offers for this service. One for €600,000 and one for €20 million. My question is which of these two has it become. Perhaps Mr Bos can clarify this to the Minister. In addition, Invest-NL set up a real estate agency to search for no less than three offices: in Amsterdam, The Hague and Utrecht, each of which is about 2,000 m, all of which have to meet the most modern requirements. It is an annual cost of at least 1 million euros. So huge overhead costs are already being created and Invest-NL has not even officially started. That promises something! My experience with international investment funds is that they work extremely lean-and-mean with a relatively limited but very capable staff. Can't all this be more sober, is my request to the Minister. So much for my criticism of the track record of the intended chairman of the board. Then what is to be done? Use this 2.5 billion tax money to achieve direct relief for SMEs and 1 millionzzp'ers, for example. This can be done, for example, by stopping the reduction of the self-employed deduction, as foreseen by the cabinet. That also costs about 2.5 billion. That's much better money spent. Create better framework conditions for investment. This includes a new auntagath-like scheme, offering tax facilities to individuals investing in start-ups. As far as I'm concerned, call it the "omeric scheme." Create more transparency in the market, for example by developing a virtual marketplace where the various development companies' investments are presented, complete with the key figures, so that market players can learn about it and create a vibrant market. This will benefit the entrepreneurial and financial environment. Entrepreneurs don't invest until they expect revenue growth, and that comes when people get more money to spend. That's where the crux is. That is why money must first be made available to reduce costs in order to repair disposable income after the damage caused by the Rutte Cabinets. Boosting investment artificially with taxpayers' money is just symptom control. That doesn't solve anything in the end. What is now needed to stimulate innovation in the Netherlands is first of all a reduction in costs, so that it will be paid again to undertake and innovate. Consumers must be given more money to spend so that entrepreneurs can invest. Trying to hunt the investments through the distribution of 2.5 billion taxpayers' money through Invest-NL is not a solution. That's only gonna cost more money. That is why I call on the Ministers to repeal the Investment-NL authorisation law and to use the resources it releases as quickly as possible to reduce the burden. Our group will come forward with further motions in the second term in order to fill this in concrete terms. Mr President, I will conclude. It seems clear to me: transferring 2.5 billion taxpayers' money to Invest-NL is a major risk to taxpayers with little benefits and many disadvantages. So don't start, is our advice. Better halfway around, than completely lost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u21	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Then I give the floor to Mrs Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to congratulate colleagues Van der Linden, Karimi and Van Huffelen on their maiden speeches. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Registry for the always wonderful biographies that are read out. I would also like to point out that the pleas made by Senators Karimi and Van Huffelen for greater diversity can count on the warm support of my group. After all, mixed teams produce better results. Mr. Chairman. The PvdA Group welcomes the fact that, for a long time, we are dealing with this authorisation law in plenary. We strongly support a public investment bank and still regret that the Netherlands is the only European country without such a bank, since the privatisation of the National Investment Bank in the 1990s. Indeed, there is both market failure and public failure in achieving socially necessary investments to solve social and sustainability problems and promote innovation, in particular to give so-called scale-ups a real market opportunity. Let me start with the market failure. From climate to innovations such as photonics, from care to housing, the market sometimes falls short when it comes to long-term investment and achieving societal goals. Invest-NL will help to provide for these investments, not by doing it alone, but by adding them to the market, as the cabinet rightly points out. In doing so, it takes only a minority stake and focuses on the last part of an investment risk that the market players do not want to take. We think that is correct, but at the same time the conclusion is that Invest-NL will carry the share of the funding with the relatively highest risk. As far as the PvdA is concerned, that fits with the honest story that there is also the highest faalkans. Because high risk isn't free. Many projects will, therefore, be able and able to fail, and the return on the average portfolio will not be high either. After all, the market would have done it! That is why we agree with the cabinet that in the further reply to our question, it confirms that Invest-NL should not be imposed on a high standard return. We agree that this can be completed after a start-up phase and only after an evaluation in three years' time. We can then also assess whether the projects are indeed socially useful, whether they would not have taken place without co-financing via Invest-NL, and what risk profile and return Invest-NL has used. And then we also want to see what substantive considerations have been made, because it is ultimately not a purely economic choice but a balance with political aspects of how Invest-NL has distributed its scarce resources among the various projects. After all, we can assume that there are more projects to finance than Invest-NL can handle?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u23	I referred in my own contribution just now to the FES, the Fund for Economic Structural Change, and another fund from the past, the Innovation Platform. Those were in no time honey pots around which the polder was crawling in search of projects for the money and that doesn't work. My question is: does the Labour Party agree with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u24	We are convinced that, given the design of Invest-NL, important societal objectives can be achieved, which cannot be left to the market, because the market fails to achieve those objectives, given the considerations I have just shared, about the high risk involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u25	But with that statement that in the past it became honey pots around which the polder crawled, looking for projects for the money, does the PvdA agree that this has happened in the past and that this could happen now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u26	I am convinced, and in our opinion the cabinet answered the questions adequately in the written round, that the design will be such that there will be an important added value, where the societal goals are at the forefront and the closing of gaps in the market will be at the forefront.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u27	These are not my words, but this is the contribution your group chairman made to the General Review two weeks ago. My group is a little surprised that you are so much in favour of this, when two weeks ago we heard this criticism from your group chairman in this House.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u28	That was a whole different matter. That was about rumors about another fund. There is a great deal of uncertainty about that, and rightly so. Several parties have asked questions about this. D66 likes to see a future fund. We have all kinds of desires about this fund, and there is still a need to clarify it. Given the lack of clarity, it is right that there are questions. At Invest-NL there is that clarity and there are no questions as expressed in the General Political Reviews as far as we are concerned. Mr President, I shall continue. That is why we are also pleased that the Invest-NL cabinet is not yet giving a banking function, which allows it to raise additional capital on the capital market and leverage equity, but that the cabinet says it will look at this for the next phase. Then I'll get to the government failure. The cabinet did not answer our questions about this in relation to the institution of Invest-NL. What am I talking about? Public services are not designed, and therefore not equipped, to assess market participants' investment projects, to know risks in the market and to reach a balanced decision. There are also bureaucratic risks of rigid processes when several departments have to assess projects together. Therefore, the assessment of such projects must be carried out by an institute at some distance. And political bodies such as the Second and First Chambers should not want direct interference with individual projects, as my group believes, nor should local politicians when it comes to regional investment with regional development companies. These are complex portfolios where some successes are sometimes interspersed with many failures. This is inherent in the large risk profile that is sought precisely in the case of market failures. Politicians will then have to accept that public money invested in guarantees or participations is regularly completely lost, provided that the total portfolio contributes to the required return requirements. In addition, there will be information sensitive to competition which cannot be discussed publicly. Because of these types of government failure, an Invest-NL is necessary, my group believes. And that is why I would like to repeat our questions to the ministers: How do they ensure that Invest-NL remains at a sufficient distance from the official services and politics? And how does that relate to the equally valid need of politics and society to want to know everything? And how does the desired distance relate to the Public Administration Act (WOB)? Is there a proper balance between confidentiality of business data and political and public transparency? It is also not the case that politics does not have oversight, but it should be done by constantly checking and evaluating the general policy starting points at general level, rather than at project level. Can the Ministers promise that the annual reports and the like will provide sufficient information for this? Moreover, we welcome the response of the Cabinet that the General Court, which is of course of great importance for the parliamentary review, is in no way hindered in its supervisory role. Mr President, I will conclude. My group very much hopes that Invest-NL can now start to close the gap between market-based and socially desirable investments and innovations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u29	I have not yet heard the spokesperson of the PvdA on the Top Income Standards Act, and I think it is also an important point for her group. Don't you agree that the chairman of the board should be subject to this standard?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u30	The Top Income Standards Act does not apply to state participations and I do not see why an exception should be made for this State participation. Mr. Chairman. To our regret, the Netherlands has been lacking an institute like Invest-NL for far too long. That is why we are pleased to have an exchange of views with the ministers today and look forward to their answers to our remaining questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Sent. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van Ballekom, on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u32	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the VVD Group, too, I would like to congratulate Mr Van der Linden and Mrs Karimi and Mrs Van Huffelen on their contribution during their maiden speech. We hope that this will not be the last contribution. Mr. Chairman. This government initiative has a long history. The main aim was to bring together public financial institutions, such as the BNG, the Waterschapsbank, FMO and RVO, and also to involve provincial development companies, and the final proposal is to set up a new organisation. It happens all the time. Once you've created an audience, you don't focus much anymore. In this respect, institutional investors and institutions have less scruples, with reference to the history of the Netherlands Investment Institution which is now under construction. Mr. Chairman. Firstly, this bill across the street has been accepted unanimously. According to the VVD Group, therefore, we have some modesty. Many questions asked by my colleagues sound very familiar to me, because they have also been heard on the other hand, and have also been partly answered. My group has only asked the Minister to be informed about the progress of Invest-NL, the results achieved, the soundness of the institution, the added value and where the specific market failure will occur. Mr. Chairman. It's not about disinterest, it's about preventing a wells-nothing game. Personally, I am convinced of the usefulness of such initiatives, as a former director and governor of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, as director of the European Investment Fund and as director and vice-president of the EIB. I don't think you'll be surprised. Let me give just one example. For example, there is no tax money or money that has been thrown away with a guarantee capital, Mr Otten EUR 25 billion under the so-called Juncker Fund has reached an investment volume of EUR 500 billion. The Juncker Fund is not a fund, but that aside. A huge lever, and that's a great achievement. In short, such initiatives can work if a smart mechanism is put in place, with advice and market players also playing an important role. In my view and in my group, it is necessary to move, if possible, towards the granting of loans and guarantees, rather than the granting of subsidies and budget financing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u33	The lever that Mr Van Ballekom is talking about can, of course, also turn very much in the other direction, if you do not think him properly in advance. Do I understand now that you are in favour of starting, in addition to the 2.5 billion, a foreign capital lever within Invest-NL?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u34	That may be a subsequent phase, Mr Otten, if the institution becomes so successful that it can get a bank guarantee so that money can be withdrawn from the market. I also understand that the institution should not be in one specific project for 100%. There must therefore always be a consortium in which other parties must join. Then you already have a leverage.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u35	In the explanatory memorandum, there is extensive talk of crowding-in and crowding-out effects. I think you're familiar with that, with your background. If we also use a huge lever here, these effects will, of course, become quite strong and large. The distortion of competition in the market will then only increase further. Is that the VVD's point of view? Is it in favour of further obstructing the private sector in this way? Mr Van Ballekom would like to make this clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u36	No, it is not, of course, the case that public money can push the private sector out of the market. That is not at all the intention of this institution; that is precisely to give a push. We have also had investment projects at the European Investment Bank, which the ABN AMRO has said: you are pushing us out of the market. I said, Mr. Salmon, that's not the case at all, because we lend money for 20 to 25 years, and you for 4 or 5 years. Then it is an added value in another sense: not on the price, but on the length of the loan. The added value can therefore be anywhere and the lever can only increase if it is successful.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u37	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u38	We were strongly in favour of moving away from government budget money and subsidies, and working more with loans and guarantees. But experience has shown that not only the lever is important. In the case of the projects, it is also crucial that several market players keep an eye on the realisation of the investment and the fulfilment of the commitments made. That's a welcome feces from the government apparatus. Finally, a guarantee remains a guarantee. An investment will be repaid with interest if it is good. To be honest, as Vice-President of the European Investment Bank at the time, I was hoping that the guarantee would sometimes be drawn, otherwise you will get the whining again that such institutions are risk-avoiding. That's what I'm gonna tell the Minister. Let me be clear: a financial institution must invest in economically and financially viable projects, which do not risk being loss-making in advance. A French minister has sometimes admitted to me that the latter was absolutely irrelevant, because the project was considered politically and socially necessary by the French Government. My reply was that everything that was not bankable but had to be financed from the budget. Full stop. But, yes, I understood his remark, because with a public debt of more than 100%, you obviously have little room for manoeuvre in the budget. Fortunately, this government and the previous government have not allowed it to come this far for the Netherlands. You're well aware of that, Mr. Chairman. The VVD Group agrees with the broad set of objectives. We do not think it is so prominent that more focus should be found, for two reasons. It is important from a risk profile of the institution. Widening investment policy areas is good for the risks of the institutions. Secondly, market conditions can change overnight. What seems necessary today is completely different tomorrow. The VVD Group also agrees with a market-based return. Of course, we should not be contributing to market distortions if we were to be below that market-based return. As I have already said, the price is not always the decisive element for doing business with such an institution. The longer term is sometimes much more important. Aid for access to European money is also important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u39	Mr Van Ballekom is, of course, an expert in this area. What, according to Mr Van Ballekom, is a market-based return?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u40	Look, Mr. Otten, you know that. The return on a project depends on the risks. One project has a different price than the other project. If a product differs in quality, there is a different price tag. You can't answer that in one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u41	What, then, do you think is a return to be achieved in a market failure project? Could that be negative, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u42	If it is a project where the market does not enter, but is enthused with the help of a public financial institution to participate, I think you can eliminate market failures with a very small investment. Mr. Chairman. All this does not go away despite the fact that I have just said that the VVD Group agrees with the broad policy objectives and also with the market-based conditions that questions can be asked in case of need and utility. There is a plethora of institutions in our country as mentioned earlier. These can be complemented by equity companies and regional development companies, various funds, national and regional, including, Mr Otten, the successful DVI-I and DVI-II, which are profitable. I thought, Minister, but you'll have to correct me if it's any other way that DVI-I has a yield of 5% to 6%. Then I think: well, if one or two projects are carried out abroad... since when is the Netherlands forbidden to make money abroad? That would be weird, wouldn't it? These are successful funds, which have fueled the investments and made us some money. So in that sense, I wouldn't want to talk about throwing away taxpayers' money. Streamlining would have been preferable, because public institutions should not, of course, compete with each other on price and conditions in a vain attempt to build a decent portfolio and thereby prove their right to exist. In short, the VVD Group gives this initiative the benefit of the doubt. We sincerely hope that Invest-NL will prove that this doubt has been wrong. My group looks forward to regular reports by the government, as promised. For the record, it is an authorisation for the Minister of Finance, not an obligation to release 2.5 billion annually or in instalments of 500 million. 2.5 billion: that was the annual turnover of the EIB in the Netherlands alone, with an average of 9-10 billion in the market. So it's not that big in a successful operation of the institution. Should it prove after some time that Invest-NL is difficult to build a robust position in the market, we should not hesitate to qualify this initiative as an experiment. In due course this will not be a criticism, but a compliment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u43	Thank you, Mr. Van Ballekom. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Atsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group also warmly congratulated Mr Van der Linden and Mrs Van Huffelen and Mrs Karimi on their maiden speech on a subject that has been very important in recent years. If we follow the discussion and the contributions here, it is not entirely unexpected that a lot of questions are asked about Invest-NL here too. The CDA Group does not question the aim of Invest-NL. For us, this is clear: we certainly asked a lot of questions about this during the previous parliamentary period and discussed it with the cabinet for a long time, at least in writing. We are convinced of the goal. There is a very strong discussion here in this Chamber today about the fact that Invest-NL is actually also the answer to market failures. I sincerely wonder whether the term'market failure' is the right term. I would also like to ask this question to the two leaders, because it is more the creation of a new vehicle, where banks, for example, are allowed to take fewer and fewer risks through tighter supervision. Then an institution like Invest-NL is one that can meet this need for capital injections. So I don't know if you're talking about market failure. I do not think it is a proper approach, all the more so because it is difficult to maintain it with dry eyes when you look at how Invest-NL is organised and what conditions are laid down. The impetus that can be given from Invest-NL can be that extra contribution to make something possible. A series of criteria have been reviewed this morning. One is that there has to be a positive business case anyway. If there is a positive business case and the regular funding institutions do not pick it up, it is difficult to talk about market failure. So I think it is a good thing that Invest-NL jumps into that hole in this way. As regards the guarantee of this, the proposal refers to a careful complaint procedure in order to avoid, in particular, the emergence of a debate. We can imagine a great deal of that. We can also imagine a lot of questions and concerns expressed by colleagues on this issue this afternoon. In part, we are happy to join; at least in the interest of curiosity about the answers of the cabinet. What we haven't heard much about is this. As I have just said, there is a careful complaint procedure. This is particularly relevant internally with Invest-NL. At the same time, of course, we have the role of the ACM. In our view, many of the proposals that will pass will ultimately require or be able to be judged by the ACM. I wonder if the cabinet sees that as well. I come to a concept which seems to be calling for discussion here today. The same goes for the two chambers. In the question, we also saw that coming along. This concerns the question of what exactly we need to think about in terms of the concept of social added value. What are the criteria for this and who is monitoring these criteria? As I pointed out, in this Chamber, but also on the other side of the Binnenhof, different parties seem to think differently about the concept of social added value. The legislative proposal, the explanatory memorandum of the cabinet and the replies refer to a 'practical procedure'. I think that's a literal quote. There are still a few questions left. What exactly is the role of management and management in this prudent procedure? Is there any role for the shareholders at all? I understand very well that shareholders must remain at a distance. The CDA Group is very much in favour of this, but at some point something has to be found. Several groups have spoken about this. Then what are we supposed to hold on to? In this sense, it is also good to repeat the question as to why an evaluation is only possible in the long term. I believe that we will start with a first evaluation after three years, and eventually it will be once every seven years. Why was that frequency chosen and not for a slightly shorter period? I read that, in response to the questions of the VVD Group, the cabinet said it would send the budget and the annual report annually to both Chambers. At least that's what I'm assuming. Can this type of discussion, which is actually more evaluating and which also answers the question of whether Invest-NL is doing what it was set up for, be conducted at that time? Or is that only possible with the three- or seven-year evaluation? When it comes to social added value, the CDA Group with many and also with the cabinet says that energy transition and achieving climate goals are two important goals. But there's definitely more. As far as we are concerned, Invest-NL is also an instrument or tool to fully support SMEs. I thought that in the first period the group of the Party of European Socialists stressed this. I would like to say with the VVD colleague that we are really not going to make any more or less of an onus. We believe that this is up to Invest-NL itself. Small and medium-sized enterprises will have to be fully involved in this. I think that developments and initiatives in the field of AI, artificial intelligence, with a lot of opportunities for, for example, care, medicine and mobility, should really be given a full chance if they lead to applications in the direction of Invest-NL. We hear different sounds about that. This applies not only to this last point, but also otherwise. We are told that initiatives have already been taken or are being rejected on a perimeter basis. When I say that there is more, I will come back to one of my first remarks. The criteria indicate that there must be a closing business case. If you are in Invest-NL's shoes, you have to assess whether a start-up or scale-up can meet that criterion. One of the very first problems faced by entrepreneurs with guts is, of course, that the business case is not immediately closing. So there's a certain amount of tension in that. The CDA Group is curious to see how this can and should be dealt with. When it comes to the question of what Invest-NL should be able to focus on, another option is very topical. We're talking about transitions. The question is whether Invest-NL could, for example, play a role in all those companies and companies that have a challenge towards what you might call the nitrogen transition. That's not a trifle. That depends a lot. If you see what you might get going with that again, I think it's worth looking into. Mr. Chairman. In short, Invest-NL should not avoid innovation, SMEs and other challenges for us, without having to be an organisation that acts as a big pot of hair-minder oil. That should also be clear. I believe that the criteria have been formulated sufficiently. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have a number of questions. Who's coordinating? Others have already pointed it out: a lot has happened in the past, of course, with investment schemes and grant schemes. To this day, there are a lot of opportunities, especially in the case of SMEs. I am thinking not only of regional development companies, but also of other funds and institutions. Because of the trees, the average entrepreneur must still be able to see the forest. Without this being an allusion to the chairman of the board, I would like to ask the two leaders whether there is sufficient transparency in the entire forest of regulations that are now and will be in place. That is very important for entrepreneurial Netherlands, I think. Speaking of which, another question is relevant to the CDA Group. Another pointed that out this afternoon. We believe that the chairman of the board should simply be the best chairman of the board. We don't care who the board president of Invest-NL is. Mr Bos as Chairman of Invest-NL states that he believes that additional capital should also be withdrawn from the market. If we look back at what has been less successful in the past, for example the NLII who just came along, then we wonder if the cabinet has an answer to the question why it should succeed now. We too believe that it is indeed important to set the multiplier in motion. Past experience is not always a guarantee that things will improve in the future. Let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u45	Mr. Atsma, the time you've given us has been exceeded by one minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u46	I have one final question. That is the question that others have also touched on. We have heard about the Wopke Fund, or the Hoekstra Fund, or the Wopke-Wiebe Fund, in the General Reviews and in the presentation of the budget. I don't know exactly what it's gonna be called. How is this fund going to relate to Invest-NL? We assume that they could strengthen each other and at least not work together competitively. The two rulers are here, so they make up their own minds about this. Maybe they'll take a nap. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u47	Thank you, Mr. Atsma. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Let me take a look at both ministers. Suspended?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u48	Two minutes for a sanitary stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u49	Then I'll suspend for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u50	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the Invest-NL Legislative Decree. The ministers have a full agenda today and that is why we only had a short suspension at their request. I call Mr Wiebes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u51	Mr President, thank you. On my part and on the part of the cabinet, I should also like to congratulate the three maiden speakers, Mr Van der Linden, Mrs Karimi and Mrs Van Huffelen, on their maiden speeches. It's always nice to see that maiden speeches often just go over the subject and look a little wider in society. That was certainly the case in these three. I congratulate them on avoiding too much overlap in positions for these maiden speeches. Mr. Chairman. First of all, the question that has been asked in many ways. Mr Van der Linden wonders whether there is a problem. Mrs Karimi asks: can it actually be market-based? Both of them ask: aren't we crowding out the market? I think Mr Van der Linden said it most impetuously: either you have an uneconomic investment and then you have to reject it, or you have no uneconomic investment and then the market does it. Period. That's exactly the world without market failures. This is how the financing market works when there are no market failures. But there are. Social goals and scale-ups, it's not like we suddenly discovered that as a whole new government task. It was never a government task, and it generally doesn't. We have hundreds of years of experience with societal goals and scale-ups. Those were just companies getting bigger. Then we had a Dutch name for it. The majority of these investments have always been made by the market. That is the case in the energy sector, that is the case in the care sector, that is the case in the food supply sector. Those are market sectors. In many areas, the market does so. Invest-NL is for where these market failures are. These are situations in which there is a social objective in which an investment could be profitable in principle, but it does not come about. That is where it fails, and that is where it helps to distinguish between a grant and an investment. Mrs Teunissen speaks when she talks about investment sometimes of subsidies, but that is really something else. Mr Van der Linden mentioned subsidies as an alternative to Invest-NL, and my argument is that that is not true. There may be a need for subsidies. Then it's about a project that can't be made profitable without anyone matching it. That's why we have the SDE. That should not be mixed with this. It is unproductive to try to cover a capital requirement with a subsidy. Conversely, it does not help to cover a subsidy requirement with a capital supply. Both will not come about. It is important that we distinguish between them. What are those cases in which an investment could be profitable, but it is not achieved? Then I come to Mr Otten's question: what is a market failure? Mr Atsma asked: is it a market failure? Mrs Sent has found a creative way of doing this. I am going to give a compliment on this later on to formulate market failure as a state failure. That's one way of looking at it. Let me give you an example. There are different types of market failures. I'm trying to explain it somewhat flat, simple. The first failure that is common, especially in those transitions involving new techniques, is coordination failure. I think I can explain that well to Mr Van der Linden. I have not yet exposed him in the debate as someone who has unlimited confidence in governments, so the example will appeal to him. Suppose three or four municipalities somehow want to build a heat grid. That is a complicated issue, because there are heat suppliers, there are a lot of market questioners, there are so many governments involved, up to and including provinces. And a private investor can count on that and say: this can be done, but I'm not getting started; I have four governments opposite me and I can't be friends with all the aldermen; there's going to be elections again; I'm not getting started; this is too uncertain for me. From an investor, the behaviour of governments also has inherent uncertainty. The downside of democracy is that governments are sometimes unreliable. There will be new reigns, and that is a nuisance. That gives uncertainty and uncertainty is the enemy of any closing investment project. Then you need a government, a stamp, an Invest-NL, who says, "I'm in now." That's what we call skin in the game. By investing in it, a government gives it credibility. This means that the perceived risk for the private investor decreases. If we remove that risk and therefore do not need to be priced, it is indeed profitable, because the project can be intrinsically profitable. If you remove public and coordination risks there, you make the project profitable and remove the market failure. In fact, it's some kind of trust stamp. There are more of those kinds of risks. In the explanatory statement, we have given it a great deal of detail. I'm thinking regulatory risks. There are all kinds of risks. These are the market failures that relate to these societal challenges.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u52	Mr Otten has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u53	Maybe I can finish the market failure story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u54	I have a specific question about this coordination failure. I am also very interested in the other forms of market failure. I'm thinking about the heat grid in South Holland. That's a disaster; I think I can qualify it that way. The government set it up with a fund. The miracle cure is now: get Invest-NL. Invest-NL also participates for 10 million and all bureaucratic tribal struggles and coordination problems have been solved. I actually hear you say that, but I do not think it is very realistic. Do you really think so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u55	I do not believe in sorcery, but I do believe that a project will become more credible if an Invest-NL-type is involved. That's a well-known fact. There are speakers in this Chamber who have seen that work up close. If you take a public part in it, it will become more credible. We've tried that in all kinds of ways. No, I don't believe in magic, but I do believe in how it works. You can reduce the risk perception, allowing private parties to see their business case and allow the project to continue, because it is inherently profitable. Look, if it's inherently not profitable, we have another problem, but that's a subsidy issue. That doesn't have a direct relationship with Invest-NL.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u56	Mr Van der Linden also on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u57	Yeah, specifically about that coordination failure. The Minister states, as in the Lower House, that coordination failure can be combated, that Invest-NL can bring parties together. There are other ways to do that. Set up a couple of liaison officers or account managers to bring that together and motivate them. That is much less risky and also cheaper. Another point is that credibility when Invest-NL participates. That must be weighed against the price at which that happens. Here, risk transfer takes place on the government. That's what we see in South Holland. This will allow you to enter the ship for huge amounts of money if you participate and suffer the disadvantages of doing so. How do you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u58	It's still an investment. If you want it to be profitable at portfolio level, you have to start with projects that a priori have a positive return expectation, a market-based return expectation. There may be those who do much better and who do much less well. The intention is, of course, to get it right at portfolio level, but that is exactly the case with private investors. The aim is to make something not a good business case by means of an implicit subsidy. We have subsidy jars for that. SDE is one of them. It's the biggest grant pot we've got. The goal is to do something, where the business case is inherently positive but because of all the additional uncertainties it is not going to fly. Then participation by Invest-NL helps, and I immediately acknowledge that this is not the only thing. The project development task can still be made so big, but if private parties and all the governments involved do not participate, then nothing will come of it. It must therefore be inherently true. That will mean that we can't go anywhere. If there isn't a good business case, this can't go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u59	Mr Otten, one more time on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u60	I don't think it's very convincing of the Minister. From the private sector, we see that in this type of project with a lot of government parties, there is no investment through the yojo policy that the government uses and the uncertainty that is put into the market by the government itself, through a kind of insecurity induction process, by constantly changing the policy. We see that with the nitrogen, with the biomass and you name it. So I do not believe that we are solving this coordination problem with Invest-NL. I really do not see why private investors would cross the line if they didn't like it if they didn't. I just don't believe that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u61	There is no doubt that governments create uncertainty. I would use other words for that than Mr Otten, but we are in complete agreement on this. Every private investor knows that governments can also be a factor of uncertainty. But that's exactly why it helps if a government participates in a state participation. Then the government suffers part of it if it screws up, but makes it a success if it promotes it. And no, that's not the only condition. And no, there's no magic wand. But this helps. I think it is undisputed that there are also market failures in the field of start-ups and scale-ups. We have regularly discussed in the various Chambers over the past two decades the fact that SMEs and scale-ups have been baptized even the valley of death, which is difficult to obtain capital. That doesn't depend on a scale-up being inherently loss-making. It is also not the case that SMEs are structurally loss-making. It's not that. In the Dutch capital market and throughout the banking supply, there seem to be gaps and gaps. We don't think there should be any. It helps to push that. This does not mean that this should be done entirely from Invest-NL. Also leverage, not leverage at the level of Invest-NL for the time being, but leverage at the level of the project, the company or the investment, could help. We want it to have growth potential in the Netherlands and not to encounter a capital deficit where it is not necessary and where it could be an inherently profitable investment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u62	The Minister talks about SMEs in the Netherlands, but can we invest in foreign SMEs? Surely that is of little use to the Dutch SMEs?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u63	No, the Dutch interest is paramount from Invest-NL.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u64	Again, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u65	It is written that the Dutch interest is paramount, but there is also the possibility to support foreign SMEs. Is that right or isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u66	The Dutch interest is paramount. I can imagine that in a single case an investment abroad is possible, but then it must be made plausible that the Dutch interest prevails. We're doing this as a Dutch government. DVI also involved investors from outside the Netherlands. I will say in a moment why this has worked out very well for the Netherlands. But here it is focused on the Dutch interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u67	Mrs Faber, for the third time on this point. Last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u68	But can I conclude that it is also open to foreign SMEs?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u69	This may be the case in exceptional cases if there is a clear Dutch interest. I find it difficult to imagine that I would go against Mrs Faber's ideas when I say that it must serve a Dutch interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u70	Mr Otten, on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u71	Yes. Is the Minister aware of the Wörsdörfer motion, which calls for the sale of the DVI interests?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u72	I'll be on DVI later. The debate is not about it, but I will try to answer some questions later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u73	Then I have another question about the financing of SMEs. Is the Minister aware of the EconPol study recently published on the bottlenecks of financing for SMEs in the Netherlands? Are you familiar with this study?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u74	I have seen many studies with bottlenecks on the investment capacity of SMEs. Perhaps Mr Otten would like to brief me on this recent study?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u75	Someone who works at a bank... I can confirm that from the point of view of practice... I'd rather do one credit application for $1 billion for Shell than $1,000 times $1 million. The latter is a lot of work and they are not waiting for it. The study "SME bank financing, from a European perspective," in particular aimed at the Dutch market, shows that this is also due to the high concentration ratio of the Dutch banking sector, where only four large banks are active. This is also an obstacle to SME financing. Is it not important to impose conditions on the banks, for example through De Nederlandsche Bank? This was also the case with the nationalisation of the Royal Bank of Scotland in 2010. They had to use a lot of money for SMEs in the UK because the bank was saved with taxpayers' money. Other cases, such as trade in derivatives in Hong Kong and the like, had to be dismissed. Can you also look at the broader perspective of the bottlenecks in the financing market for SMEs?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u76	Let me put it this way: this is an almost constant interference of the EZK Secretary of State. I appreciate Mr Otten extending the debate on Invest-NL to DVI. Now he is actually extending it to the restructuring of the Dutch banking sector. I am sure that we may be able to finish this afternoon, but the Minister of Finance will do so. But seriously, the top four obstacles to SME investment are related to transaction costs in relation to the size of the deal. It also often has something to do with it, and that too is important that the business case is not well thought out. We also want to work on that. It also sometimes happens, as has been shown by previous studies, that there is a striking share of SMEs that want to have funding, but that do not have equity in the balance sheet. But there are market failures when transaction costs are high compared to the size of the deal. You don't allow an SME to be said to be too small, you can't participate. You don't want that. That's what we call market failure, and that's what we want to do. That's what we're trying to solve with that growth. We have been working on this in many ways over the past few years. This is an extremely valuable additional instrument. There are concerns about mixing, but I will deal with that later. Do we ultimately want to compete banks away? No, we expressly don't want that. Banks are leaving the things where market failures lie to the left. They don't do anything about it. In addition to the business case, additionality is also an important criterion in the review. That is also an answer to the question of the GroenLinks Group......................................................................................................................................................................................... In the explanatory memorandum, there is a lot to be said about it. The additionality criterion is therefore important. I have also discussed this in detail in the House of Representatives. All in all: if projects with a limited share of Invest-NL, but also with a large share of private investors, are pulled out because you solve market failures, then the private investor market is not getting smaller, but larger. This, also with a significant share of private investment, brings about things that would not otherwise have happened. They also asked why NLII did not succeed. This involved bringing together all kinds of investment, but without own resources to solve the market failures and not with such an extensive development facility. Therefore, without competing with private investment, the cabinet intends to invest in projects that are in principle profitable but would not otherwise have been achieved. That is a pity for the goals you could have served, but it is also a pity for the return you would not have made. Then let's talk about the targets. Mrs Karimi is concerned about this in several ways. Firstly, she asks whether this SME target is not some kind of glutton that eats everything that leaves nothing for social purposes. Her second concern is: that's all nice and nice, but if they are such separate silos, then we're doing sustainable with one goal and then we're going to do fossil next to another goal called "mkb and scale-ups." I realized in her speech that the documents may not be sufficient to show this. I was rather charmed by this possible contradiction. Let me start with that last point. Of course, that is not possible, so I am making a commitment here that we will ensure that the criteria in the SME scale-up story do not conflict with those other objectives. I realize that's probably not a good fit. That's not convenient. It has to be repaired somehow. How, I would rather not try to figure it out here, but that has to be demonstrated in the procedure. I find that extremely useful. I would like to thank Mrs Karimi for this alert. Does that mean that there's absolutely nothing to do with companies that also carry out fossil tasks? Mrs Karimi said that we should not fall into the greenwashing of the fossil industry. She wants to rule out fossil companies. Fossil projects must of course be excluded, but fossil companies can do things that are helpful in the energy transition. In fact, if we are going to exclude the largest, most powerful and most wealthy companies in this country from contributing to otherwise uncertain transition projects, then I think we are in the wrong place. For example, you may have a residual heat project from the fossil industry today. If that's a lock-in project, it's not a good business case. Then we are just trying to stay fossil for longer, but it may well be that today's heat suppliers are also the heat suppliers of later. All kinds of processes that are going to have to be sustainable still produce heat. Then it's extraordinary if you can build heat grids from heat-producing companies to households that need heat. This means that you have to see that this does not remain an inherent fossil industry, but processes that we sustain still emit heat in many cases. We still want to use it as residual heat. I agree with Mrs Karimi that we should not allow fossil projects aimed at increasing the use of fossil energy to be eligible for this, but I do not want to hang on to fossil companies, because fossil companies can do things that we desperately need in the transition. We would like to take advantage of the residual heat from the Maasvlakte, because the Maasvlakte of 2040 or 2050, which has to work on sources of carbon other than fossil sources, will still emit heat. We would particularly like to use them in the nearby cities, as an example.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u77	I thank the Minister for his comprehensive answer, but I have one problem. I agree with the Minister that the ultimate objective is for us to have a fossil-free economy. It is our ultimate goal that we achieve it. This means that all the interventions that the government is making must be aimed at ensuring that we do not become dependent on fossil energy and companies that are focused on it. If we see that fossil companies are still making huge investments in the fossil sector and only a small amount of investment in alternatives, then of course that does not help to achieve the ultimate goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u78	We are discussing here the creation of a state participation aimed at detaching projects that would be useful in that transition where they would not otherwise be created, but we are not talking here about a number of completely separate fossil investments from this state participation. If we were to say that investment in the fossil industry without Invest-NL is now banned in the Netherlands, we would have another debate. This is about promoting transition projects in which the market fails. We're trying to get rid of it. At the same time, preventing an oil company from investing in its hydrocracker, I am not doing so with this vehicle.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u79	That is not the essence of my speech either. My argument is that you are creating a vehicle, which I agree with in principle and in which the social transition is at the heart of market failures. Then my question is that you must always bear in mind the ultimate goal of social transition in all the investments and interventions you make.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u80	Sure, but then maybe we're saying the same thing. Defossilisation should not be effectively countered by the participation of Invest-NL in a particular project. That's not the point. That is also the nature of the commitment I have just made. I will see to it that we do not move forward in one column and back in the other. That's not appropriate. As I have learned from Mrs Karimi, this is not enough from the documents. I'm gonna fix that, because that's not the point. I also thank her for this discovery.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u81	In addition to this point. In view of the ultimate goal of a fossil-free society, the Minister just referred to the Maasvlakte. He said we need that heat from the Maasvlakte. But one of the candidates to provide the heat roundabout with residual heat is Shell Pernis, the oil refinery. A contract is about to be concluded for decades. In addition, an oil refinery could have to go on for decades because citizens depend on the residual heat that comes from it. Can the Minister exclude that Invest-NL could finance such lock-ins?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u82	No, I don't want to rule that out in general. I want to rule out any investment that could cause a lock-in. I'd like to rule that out. This means that if, for example, we set up heat grids with residual heat that is still fossil, we have to see in the view of 2050 that that will be non-fossil residual heat or that we can connect several suppliers of residual heat, so that we are flexible in choosing the suppliers. We want to rule out Lock-in. That is my promise. The way in which can vary from project to project.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u83	I'm glad the Minister says he wants to exclude lock-ins, but the example of that residual heat from the Maasvlakte he just gave is a typical example of a lock-in situation. Can the Minister specify with what measure we are going to prevent those lock-ins?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u84	I do not go into specific projects, which, by the way, are completely imaginary and I am sucking them out of my thumb as an example. What I'm saying is that you can prevent lock-in, for example, by knowing that the heat supplier you're talking about will soon be a sustainable heat supplier or secondly that you can also switch to other heat suppliers in the future and therefore have a choice of sources. Those are all just examples of ways to make sure you don't get stuck in backward movements, because we don't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u85	Mrs Teunissen, third and last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u86	A clarification on my previous question. In what way, given the way in which Invest-NL has now been designed, can the Minister still exercise influence in the future? If the government is more remote and offers room for these investments, how can it influence to prevent that lock-in?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u87	We have criteria, including those in the supplementary agreement, which should provide a framework for scrutiny which will prevent lock-in. I will come back to the relationship between direct government control and government control. Mrs Sent made a very good speech on this subject. On this basis, I will try to answer a number of other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u88	The Minister just mentioned the additional agreement. I, too, have asked questions about this. Is the agreement now available? Is the minister still going to come up with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u89	The answer to the questions will come and the agreement will come, but not today. But now I'm ahead of the answers. Mrs Karimi, if I understand correctly, expressed her concern about the relationship between the three different tasks of Invest-NL. So it's not about the goals of Invest-NL, it's about the tasks. There is an investment task, a development task and a regulatory task. This arrangement task is, as it were, a hook; it can still be regulated. That task does not yet exist; there are no regulations at present. I really see the investment task and the development task as mutually exclusive. Indeed, the market failure runs along both stages of the chain. Projects are not being developed now, parties do not come together. A developer can play a role in that. It can say: guys, why don't you sit down together, because with a helicopter view, it looks like we need one heat grid and you're all on your own. That is a development task that we need, so we need it at the table. And then there is the investment task. That chain seems very valuable to me. This is based on different types of market failure. I think that these tasks are very much a part of each other. The regulatory task is also part of this, but it is not aimed at the provision of subsidies, which is really a different task, but at other financial instruments. I see that these three different tasks are closely interrelated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u90	An interruption by Mrs Karimi. I suggest that we then give the Minister the opportunity to continue his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u91	Sure. Only I have one question for the Minister. The development task and the investment task may be mutually exclusive; I fully agree with that. But will the development task also focus on developing projects that achieve a societal transition challenge? Or is it generally just about developing good business? That's quite a difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u92	If you look at the two goals, you will see that there is a very large task of coordination for the societal tasks. For the scale-ups that is less the case. That's another kind of market failure. So it is very obvious to focus the development task precisely on the societal challenges, because they are complex without exception. There are all kinds of parties, public, private, all mixed up so that a developer is really in place, because otherwise nothing happens. That's what it's aimed at. Mrs Van Huffelen asks how we decide whether the fund will be a success. The critical performance indicators should demonstrate this. They must determine whether the social and economic objectives of the bill are being met. To whom is the last to be judged? In all humbleness I say that this is for Parliament's assessment. We're reporting. The Minister of Finance also reports on state participations. In all kinds of ways, both chambers receive the necessary information. There is that promise; I have also promised it in the reply. And then it is up to this Chamber to assess whether the organisation is doing its job and whether the cabinet succeeds in achieving its goals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u93	The Minister says that there will be reports and that it will then be up to Parliament to assess whether Invest-NL is achieving the goal that we have in mind. But at the end of the day, Parliament can't do anything after that, can it? Parliament can perhaps say: we do not like it at all, we do not like it at all, it is all a bit messed up. But then there is nothing we can do at all, because in fact all power lies with the Minister of Finance and the Minister of EZ.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u94	I am sorry to say it in his presence, but Mrs Faber is now exaggerating the overall power of the Minister of Finance. We are executives; we are controlled by parliament. In fact, we find that very honorable and very useful. But as far as policy is concerned, as far as Parliament is concerned, or the Minister of Finance, as far as participations are concerned, can appeal to me. Parliament has a great deal of resources at its disposal to exercise that control and apply it in various forms in the direction of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u95	That all sounds fun. For example, we could table a motion of censure. But that's the end of it. If you nationalise the statutes, you will see that the full power lies with both ministers. Parliament is, in fact, being put out of play with this bill. It was a demand of the European Commission that the fund should be set aside. When you read the statutes, it turns out that this is the case. In fact, the Minister for Finance, in consultation with the Minister for Economic Affairs, can simply alienate the matter. He can even change the statutes. So in fact, as a parliament, we no longer have any influence at all. We must hope that it all goes well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u96	I think it would be wise for the Minister of Finance to comment on this when he talks about state participation. What Mrs Faber is now putting forward would then apply to all state participations, but of course it does not work that way either. The cabinet is certainly capable of doing so. The Minister of Finance will say something about it in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u97	I had a brief question about the objectives, the KPIs. The Minister is right that Parliament can finally see the success. However, he said that in the supplementary agreement with Invest-NL he wanted to refine the objectives together with the institutions. What are the objectives that the Minister is going to give them, apart from the objectives of the scope and the issues in which they can invest? When does the Minister experience the fund as a success, both in terms of social return and in terms of financial return?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u98	That depends very much on the period we are looking at. You can't assess the return on some investments for another ten years. You always want the ex-ante to be good. I think it would be extremely important for us to show that investment in a transition is investing in a different way of generating energy, a different way of using energy, a different way of running our industrial processes and another way of heating our homes not only financially, but also profitablely, that it is becoming increasingly self-evident and that we are rolling it out. We have known many transitions in this country. There was a time when the place was underwater. We have always implemented these transitions in a way that we have once again made a profit from them and made them a peaceful, safe and pleasant country. This transition will also go that way. I hope to contribute to this. We have never made it very easy in this country. Yet we have always got through these transitions. If I leave out the oil countries and also the small countries, because small countries sometimes cheat, then we have become the second richest country on the planet per capita, on that list. That prosperity gives us freedom. It gives us a position in the world. It takes care of our way of life. I stand for a transition, another way of generating energy, which means that we are no longer dependent on oil countries, to succeed, because we can give things a boost, if I may put it more passionately. I'd like that. But that's my humble opinion. Mrs Gerkens asked how we are going to test the projects. This is, of course, done on the basis of the criteria. That's seven now. Additionality is an important part of this. It is also important to assess the objectives. I have just announced a tightening-up of this. And the business case is also important. Then there is the precise status of the supplementary agreement. It doesn't officially exist yet, but in concept it does exist. It's in the First Chamber, but that's not the final version. The final version goes to the Upper Chamber after signature, but a concept is already in the Upper Chamber. I could be asked about that, too. Why aren't these criteria in an AMvB? This would interfere with the independence of a state participation. Then the balance will be taxed and then there will be no question of distance setting. This almost automatically brings me to the point that Mrs Sent has just made, on which I was going to say a few words.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u99	Do I hear the Minister say that the additional agreement is in draft with the Upper House?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u100	Yeah, I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u101	When will it be signed between Invest-NL and the Ministry?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u102	I owe you the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u103	Okay. For at some point we must also vote on this authorisation law and the agreement plays a crucial role in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u104	The advice is to study the concept and to appeal strongly to those responsible for it. I would like to express my appreciation for Mrs Sent's speech, because she describes the knot we are in. In the debate, many people choose a sensible centre. It describes the need to distance this from politics. Because if this is going to be a political toy, we might as well transfer it to the budget and throw a big party of it. If we really want profitable investments to be made in things that actually contribute to the transition or to scale-ups that also have the chance to scale up, that is up to experts to assess. These are experts who work at Invest-NL or for Invest-NL; they are all forms for this. These must be independently assessed on the basis of the content. That is why we have opted for a state participation rather than a part of the national budget. She asks a question about this and then answers it in a way that I cannot improve. Mrs Sent says that we have to be accountable at the general level and not at project level. To be honest, I think that's the right answer. We can make it more specific all the time, but then we fall to reading the pieces. I think that this argument is a very good way to explain why you want both control at this level and independent assessment by experts at this level. It's got to run together, and we're gonna see it here every year. Every year, the way that happened comes out. Thereupon the rulers shall be able to speak. That's what we're going to do, I say in the direction of Mr. Atsma, first evaluate after three years and then after four years and after seven years. But that's about the law, and you don't evaluate a law every year. Invest-NL's performance can be assessed annually. Directors are contactable and we will, of course, appeal to the management of Invest-NL.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u105	Let me come back to this state-owned enterprise and to the remark that the fund is being put at a distance. It is done very interestingly and says that experts can then get to work out of sight of the control, but this does not have to do with...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u106	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u107	Yeah, that's just the way it is. Let's just be honest. We're out of control, just afterwards, and there's nothing else we can do. But, of course, it was an express wish of the European Commission that it should become a fund that can be put at a distance. It had to meet certain conditions so that it could be hung under InvestEU, because other European Member States were also going to rig up such a vehicle. It all had to be connected. Isn't that the real reason it was set at a distance?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u108	No, the fact that we did not have such an organisation allowed us to make less use of the European investment facilities than possible. That's right. But if the European Union had not existed, it would have been a world that Mrs Faber could perhaps have imagined at home in the bank............................................................................................................................................................................................................... You don't want politicians, I'm also going to vote on individual projects, because then it's going to be a political handout circus. We want projects to be revolutionary and we want the goals we have set to be achieved in a financially attractive way. We do not do that by voting on projects in this Chamber or in another Chamber. Moreover, we do not do that by placing all this in the cabinet and letting the cabinet decide on it. Let me put it so self-critically.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u109	In any case, I am pleased that the Minister admits that we could have done so without the EU.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u110	Yes, that would have been quite possible. To Mrs Faber I would like to put it this way: now that we also have payments to Europe, it is also appropriate for us to make maximum use of the investment facilities that exist there and for the benefit of the Netherlands. That is also a valuable goal. We are all opposed to this in this Chamber, I think. Several questions have been asked about how this is happening with other institutions. The investment fund is one of the institutions, or funds, or funds that have been requested. Mrs Gerkens asked: what is the difference between Invest-NL and that fund I read about in the newspaper? It has also been mentioned in the Millions Note. This investment fund does not yet exist, but the two future fathers are indeed here. In many ways that can be additional, but it is not overlapping. I know that at various times there has been talk that one could drive the other in the wheels or that they would become competitors of each other. They're really something else. There are no overlaps and one is not a free money initiative for the other. Invest-NL also provides public-private loans or investments to a private party through project-level leverage, which must also be repaid by that private party. It is business financing or project financing. It's to pull something smooth. The financial return benefits all investors, including Invest-NL. The investment fund is not corporate financing, but is about public expenditure for a public, non-consumable purpose that also does not revolve, other than in higher earning capacity. Invest-NL's revenues are a return and a social goal. The revenue of an investment fund is also a public target, but they have a greater earning capacity. It's not revolver in that sense either; it's really something else. Invest-NL is also focused on private financial returns. The investment fund is aimed at increasing national earning capacity, increasing our prosperity, so that we will be able to maintain all our public arrangements in the Netherlands as we know them in the future. One can benefit from the other, but they don't replace each other and they don't compete with each other. One thing I would like to stress is that it is not a free money initiative on the other. Mrs Van Huffelen asked about the ROMs, indeed a star at the firmament. Those regions, including the IPO, welcomed the establishment of Invest-NL. I've had several regions with ROMs at the table. They are particularly keen to engage in this cooperation and see that it strengthens each other. Invest-NL also sees this: Together you do more than just. I also signed a cooperation agreement with the deputy in a chic hall in EZK. All to underline that we are going on an adventure here together and that we co-finance all kinds of different themes. That was also the kick-off between strategic and operational cooperation between the State, the regions, Invest-NL, the ROMs, the economic boards and the metropolitan regions. So that's how we try to work together on those things that we all aim to do. A question has been asked about European funds. It is no different from that. EFSI has made all kinds of major investments, such as the sustainability of the built environment in France, chakka 400 million. There is also EFSI funding in other countries. The Netherlands has made limited use of this and we now hope to become more eligible for this type of co-investment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u111	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply on the forms of cooperation with the regional development company. My question was specifically about whether this is all coverage for the whole of the Netherlands, because not every area in the Netherlands is covered by that set of regional development companies. It is desirable that investments that come in Amsterdam, for example, should also be properly coordinated, not only by Invest-NL but perhaps also by something that is a local organisation. Again, they're not everywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u112	That's true. What Invest-NL is going to try to do at project level is to find as many supporters as possible who also want to have a part of the cake. If you want to solve the market failure by putting 100% of the amount on the table, you're probably not getting enough leverage. So you want as many co-financers as possible. The only goal you have is for the project to go smoothly. One region has a ROM for that, the other region has a strong capital for that, one region has a lot of private parties that can participate, the other may have public parties. But it's not like this doesn't get off the ground if you don't have a ROM, it's not a sine qua nun. I have had four years on the Amsterdam City Council, and I have not had the impression at that time that there was a very large capital shortage there. However, there are many societal challenges in which Invest-NL could play a role. But there are other than ROMs that can work in that. That also means that I have a somewhat unsatisfactory answer to Mrs Karimi's question as to what amounts we expect. Well, projects are in preparation between Invest-NL and European co-financing. If you add it up, you may already be able to make some hundreds of millions of joint investments. But let's not establish that this is necessarily the end. I do not know the amount, but we are already working very hard on this during the preparatory phase. That looks like a lot of chances. In response to Mr Otten's question, the signed agreement will be sent to the Upper House in early 2020. I have some remaining questions about Invest-NL, and then I get to DVI.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u113	I still have a question about that. We are therefore supposed to vote on this authorisation law, and then we will see the additional agreement as it has been concluded. I find that a very strange course of action. About all the questions are about what is to be included in that additional agreement, including the climate aspects. I don't think that's the right order. How can we vote if we haven't seen that signed contract?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u114	Well, that's what the concept was sent for. And in the future too, if the law has passed parliament and if Invest-NL exists, the additional agreement may be amended. That doesn't mean the law stops suddenly. This is the way this organization is run, but to give confidence that we are in the right direction at least in the beginning, a concept has been put forward for this, at the request of the House of Representatives. That offers us all sorts of opportunities to question us on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u115	Since this is such an important part of this whole construction, we should postpone the vote until that agreement is concluded so that we can look at it first. I think that's a better way of doing things.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u116	But if the concept is already in the Chamber... I do not recall having received critical questions from Mr Otten about that concept. So if his concern is that the thing isn't final yet, I would have expected him to at least ask critical questions about the concept. He asked more questions about DVI than about Invest-NL.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u117	How far does that concept go?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u118	I'm gonna have the concept tracked down...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u119	I'd love to. But to what extent is that going to change? You say it's still under negotiation. So the end result could be quite different. And the Council of State also pointed out that this was not the right way to standardize this from the government. I had also asked a question about this; perhaps you could also comment on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u120	My answer was that, if we had done so in a legal form, this would not have meant sufficient distance from politics. We shall then be dropped in Mrs Sent's speech. Let me see if we can somehow magic the concept that was in this room. If there is a suspension, Mr Otten can take a look at that. Mr. Chairman. A few more questions have been asked. Mrs Gerkens spoke on the assumption that Invest-NL had already started various projects. I can reassure her: that is not the case, no funding has been provided, no investment has been made by Invest-NL during that period. Well, preparations have been made. That makes sense, because if you want a quick start, you have to prepare. Things have a start-up period, so we've only used this period to do reversible things: preparations that you can get rid of. This has to do with the organisation's construction, with information to businesses, to co-finance, to European institutions, projects and businesses, working in a variety of ways on a pipeline of projects from which we will be able to choose the best. But irreversible decisions have not been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u121	Does this answer also mean that, in the view of the Minister, no applications or requests for an application have so far been rejected by Invest-NL in advance?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u122	I'll have that checked. But if we don't work irreversibly yet, we can't reject anything either. You can point out in the preparations that parties still have some work to do on a particular proposal or that something in its present form is not yet very promising. But that's normal education, which you're supposed to do. If I find out that there have been formal rejections by an institution that does not yet exist, which would surprise me and Mr Atsma, I will let you know in the second term. Has the State aid procedure been completed? Oh, yeah. There is a positive statement from the European Commission. Moreover, there has been no ACM procedure; this has just been done by the European Commission. But that approval is in. Another question has been asked about democratic control. How do we look at that ourselves, was the critical question. Well, I think that was settled in the law in the Lower House. I believe that the CDA has tabled an amendment, which has been adopted, which states that the annual accounts and the management report should be sent to the Chamber at the same time as the annual management report on State participations, with due regard for the objectives. That is a wish about simultaneous provision of information that can be honoured. After all, it is the Chamber that can indicate how it wants information. You can even legally anchor that. It is not the case that there was no democratic control whatsoever. There are reviews of the law after three, four and seven years. There is an annual progress report, with domains and results. If the supplementary agreement is to be substantially amended in the future, the Court will also be informed in advance. These are all ways for the Chambers to control that. A little bit has been added about the simultaneous flow of these information. I think that's perfectly orderly. That is something the House can force by amendment. That is perhaps also the indirect answer to Mr Atsma's question: once every seven years is not little? He himself said it starts after three years, and then four years. Only seven years? That's really about the law, not about the performance of this institution. That can be looked at annually. But to evaluate a law annually, perhaps again would create a lot of parliamentary movement. Mr Otten asked a question about a specific investment by DVI, CHRONEXT. I really suggest that we do not deal with specific investments here. There are other ways. The debate is not about it either. Actually, I didn't want to do that. DVI focuses on innovative and fast-growing companies, including scale-ups, which cannot raise that capital. I think there is no question, whether you sell lingerie or other things, that it is not always easy for SMEs in general to come up with capital with a profitable business. DVI is in that respect the demonstration of the fact that, if you give an audience push to that, that can also be profitable. There has been evaluated by Dialogic, with a thick report, in which everything has been pierced. This evaluation also shows exactly that this has been a success. The conclusions of the evaluation are that this has led to ten different levels of risk capital available for scale-ups. So every government euro has gone down ten times. If you would only involve it in the Netherlands, because there were of course broader goals than only the Netherlands, then it is still four times over. So for every government euro that has been invested in it revolved and profit-making, four euros have become available to finance business for healthy, promising Dutch companies, wherever they act. No, you don't have an energy transition in your hands right away, but that wasn't Mr Otten's goal either. It's just companies where Dutch people work to make products for others. That's what we make our money from in this country. It is good that this will provide funding for SMEs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u123	Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u124	That has been positively evaluated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u125	I am happy to give the floor to Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u126	Could I perhaps finish the DVI answer so that it makes it easier for Mr Otten to respond later?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u127	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u128	It is true that this bill makes it possible to transfer the State's share management in DVI from East-NL to Invest-NL; that is possible. However, before that suspension would take place, the request of the House of Representatives is to see if that can be sold. At some point, a fund has proven its purpose and you could sell it. Well, that's in full swing. I am not going to talk here about valuations, if any, but there is talk with all kinds of parties, including the co-investor EIF, about the conditions of the possible sale, about its terms. As soon as that investigation is completed, I'll let you know what's coming out of it and what progress has been made. If that were not possible, it would indeed be possible to bring that stock management to Invest-NL, but that can only be done once we have completed that investigation and if it would not be possible to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u129	I have another question about DVI. I've really been thinking about that. There's also an investigation from The Financial Daily, which you can see here on my phone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u130	It's hard from this distance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u131	It concerns 94 investments in the Netherlands and a lot abroad. Mr Van Ballekom said: it was only one investment. Where is the market failure when DVI invests in a project of 52 million euros for a Swiss webshop for Rolex watches of €20,000 and more, where Joop van den Ende and Reinout Oerlemans invest in? Such a project has no interest in the Netherlands, perhaps only for a few people who buy an expensive watch, which I do not belong to. What's the market failure here? Why are we doing this? This is going to be under Invest-NL. That has been explained in detail. By the way, I had another question about the book profits.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u132	No, you're asking me for an answer. The bill makes it possible to hang that under Invest-NL, but before that, it will first be examined whether it can be sold. It will not be suspended until the examination of the market sales opportunities has been completed and it would appear that this could not be sold under acceptable conditions. That's the answer to that question. The debate is not about DVI. If the debate had been about DVI, I still wonder if it would have been appropriate to deal with individual investments. I don't know the exact case. I know that, together with EIF, it was a fund that could invest in the Netherlands but also outside. The Netherlands has benefited a lot, but there are indeed investments outside the Netherlands. This is one of those. I don't know the investment specifically, so I can't answer any questions about that either. What I did get, but unfortunately in simplicity I would have liked to have had it in duplicate, because then Mr Otten would also have one. He came in here on May 21st. I have one copy now. I am now saying that I would very much like to have a second copy so that I can make it available here. Everyone's got the same thing. Mr Otten, who asked the most specifically for this, could then be the first to run to the table. And I also have a copy. Mr. Chairman. I think I'll be through the first-term questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u133	Thank you, Minister. If there are no other questions from the Chamber, I will give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u134	Thank you, Mr President. From my side, too, congratulations and congratulations to the three Members who made their maiden speech. Of course, that immediately reminded me of the moment when I had that great privilege eight years ago. Thank you, too, for the many questions put by Members and for the positive basic attitude which I thought I could see here and there. I will take care of the questions which, of course, are also specific to my area from my role as responsible for state participations. I think it is helpful to name the various cubes in which I would like to answer the questions. These are, moreover, generally relatively limited. Honesty requires me to say that the same is true of my role in relation to state participations. I will address Mrs Faber's question in particular in a moment. I understand that question very well, but there is a lot to be said about it, especially when I look at the dialogue I have with the House of Representatives. I'm not just being controlled, I feel very controlled, too. But I'll say a little more about that in a moment. It is important, I think, to emphasise that we have shaped it as follows with regard to state participations. There's a minister in charge of policy. I have never checked it in percentages, but in 80% or 90% of the traffic between the Lower House and the Cabinet in particular, she decides whether to tone it and gives them or he the answers. The Minister of Finance is by nature more at a distance there. The Minister of Finance is responsible for appointments, for returns, for the strategy and for what else is left in the area of governance. I say this because, of course, I would like to make it even more beautiful than it is, although that is not entirely appropriate because the ministers responsible for policy are always in the lead. Mr. Chairman. The various subjects. I will say a few words about parliamentary control, which was a few questions about. There are a few remaining issues in the area of investment and return, but the Minister of EZK has already said a lot about this. Then corporate social responsibility and diversity, which several questions were about. There was one question about international. Then there will be reward and residual governance. Then there were one or two other questions. Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with parliamentary control. The question of, I believe, Mrs Karimi was whether the Court of Auditors will receive full and independent supervision in the context of the assessment of Invest-NL. For the record, the Compatibility Act is clear about that. It lays down the Court's powers of investigation. It ensures that the Court of Auditors is completely independent in carrying out that audit task and can do so both at the request of one of the Chambers of the States-General and on its own initiative. The next question, which was certainly Mrs Karimi's, was whether I would also like to promise that all reports and evaluations will come out this way. Yeah, absolutely. This is also regulated by the Compatibility Act. That is typical of the Minister responsible for policy, in this case Mr Wiebes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u135	A word on the monitoring of the General Court of Auditors. Isn't it true that Invest-NL is not under the supervision of the General Court?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u136	I have just said that the Court of Auditors has the power to examine what he thinks is right. The Court of Auditors can be inspired by members of the cabinet. They may put a question to the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors can then do as it pleases. The same applies to the Chambers of the States General. Next, these reports end up back here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u137	It may well be that the General Court may initiate investigations itself, but I have read in the documents that Invest-NL is not under the supervision of the General Court. Then the Court of Auditors can start an investigation on its own, if he would need it, but he does not have to do so because Invest-NL is not under supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u138	I'll say a little more about it in a moment, but I don't think it's gonna rule anything out. The Court of Auditors has described in detail the power to determine what it intends to do, which is simply described in detail in the Compatibility Act of 2016. So he can also shed his light on a state participation. Moreover, there are a number of exceptions to this in principle unlimited competence. Think of things that really belong exclusively to the area of the European Central Bank. That is not what we are talking about here, but exceptions have been made. It is important, however, not to pretend that I would have the possibility of doing so if I wanted to put the Court of Auditors in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u139	I am not saying that the Minister would put anything in the way of the Court of Auditors, but we are talking about two things. We're talking about surveillance. That's the one thing; that's what I'm talking about. The Minister talks about the possible initiation of investigations. My question is once again: is Invest-NL under the supervision of the General Court of Auditors or not? Then we should not talk about all kinds of investigations, but just about supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u140	Let me add a few words to the section on governance in a moment. There is a board of Invest-NL. The Supervisory Board supervises this. There is then a role for the Minister of Finance, who is then again controlled by both Chambers of the States-General, who are then appointed directly and indirectly by the electorate. That's in a nutshell how this works. It is still good to add that Invest-NL is not a licensed institution. This institution is therefore not, like other institutions, subject to the supervision of, for example, De Nederlandsche Bank or the AFM. I don't know if that's what Mrs Faber's referring to?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u141	I'll just say I can't get an answer to my specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u142	At least that wasn't the attempt, I hope. I have one more question in the parliamentary control block, but perhaps I have answered it by now. Mrs Sent asked if the annual reports provide sufficient information to the Second and First Chambers. Of course, that is a very good question, which is also very obvious. Invest-NL itself will report extensively in the annual report. By the way, all state participations take place. There's an extraordinary amount of information in there. Next, there will always be an annual report from the cabinet on state participations, which could be said to provide the brief information on state participations combined with a number of issues that concern the Chamber in particular. I am going to say more about diversity in a moment, but it is one of those subjects that the state participations themselves pay attention to, but also, in a comparative sense, I always pay attention to in the annual overview of state participations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u143	In addition to Mrs Faber's question: is the Minister aware of the letter from the General Court of 18 June 2018, from Arno Visser, in which exactly this point is raised by the Court of Auditors itself? That letter states: "The scope of our research opportunities in various parts of Invest-NL is not yet established. In short, we do not know exactly to what extent we will be able to provide the States-General with information about Invest-NL based on independent research." Then there is a whole explanatory statement. That's kind of worrying. How are we gonna solve this if the law of authorization can be passed anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u144	Mr Otten's question is whether I am familiar with it. Yeah, I'm familiar with that. There was also an exchange of views on the position of the Court of Auditors. For the sake of completeness, I will put that in perspective and time in the second term. Mr. Chairman. Then I will go from the parliamentary scrutiny block to a few more questions in the area of return and investment thresholds. Mr Wiebes has already discussed a number of things. Mrs van Huffelen asked what these investment thresholds are and how they are assessed. For the record, the State will, of course, keep its finger on those thresholds, but the exact competence to take the investment decisions and also to supervise them will soon lie with the supervisory board and with the board of directors. I am still in discussion with the intended presidents of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board on the level of the threshold. This is, by the way, exactly the normal course of action in the case of state participations. With all other state participations you have this system too, where typically very small things or small investments for the specific company are not presented, but large investments are. You can also see that, over time, such frameworks are being adapted, for example because of the sensitivity, the foreign character or the fact that the company, the state participation, has grown so strongly that what initially seemed to be a logical threshold, is ultimately no longer workable, which means that the threshold has to be raised. But, in concrete terms, we are still talking about this. Mr. Chairman. Mr Otten asked what the level of the standard yield would be. I think we exchanged that with the Chamber, at least with the House of Representatives. This is established in the evaluation, three years after the foundation, precisely to prevent you from getting involved in this situation so that Invest-NL doesn't even get a chance to get away from it. So that's after three years. Mr. Chairman. Those were the questions in the standard efficiency block. Then I have a pretty big block about CSR and diversity. Mrs Van Huffelen and Mrs Karimi have rightly paid attention to this. I think I have said in this Chamber that I am a feminist. So I also understand where their inspiration comes from. I have understood that they do not object to the intended President being a man, but that they do call on me to continue to draw attention to this. This has the particular attention of the cabinet. Soon I will also have a further discussion with the House of Representatives on the position of state participations in the broad spectrum. Frankly, the good news is that there is significantly more diversity in state participation at supervisory level but also at the level of directors than in the market. As far as the Commissioners are concerned, we are even quite close to the fifty-fifty, I say out of my mind. At the same time, it is not possible to organise this directly, directly, with each state participation from minute one. A bit of a special anecdote. At some point, I had a state stake where 100% of the directors of the same sex were. So then I asked the head of Participation in my ministry: how is that possible? He said to me: well, Minister, that's easy, because there's only one statutory director. That makes it a little complicated to solve this problem within that administration, other than 100% or 0%. But we will continue to pay particular attention to this, both to the Commissioners and to the directors. Not so much to reassure you but to underline the ambition, I would say that this is absolutely broader than just Invest-NL and that I am proud to be cautious, because of course I am doing very little about it myself. They also do not only occasionally better than market players and sometimes also than parts of the government itself. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Huffelen's question and, in my opinion, Mrs Karimi's question was how CSR is taken more widely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u145	Minister, there's been an interruption by Mrs. Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u146	Yes, because I had also asked a question about diversity of composition. I specifically said that I was referring not only to gender, but also to the background of the members of the Supervisory Board. I didn't get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u147	I'll go over that question right away. Of course, I've heard that question. Of course we look wider than that. What are you trying to look at? According to all kinds of criteria of diversity, which are also known by the Chamber. Of course, you also look very strongly at the quality, the quality of the content, and also whether people in a team are complementary. For example, the Supervisory Board will do so on the Management Board. The board will then do so again in the various teams. It is therefore being looked at in the widest possible sense. I think it is fair to say that, and I think Mrs Gerkens and others recognise this, too, that the organisations that make a great effort to do more in the area of diversity are getting better and better in the relationship between men and women, but that the search is often more difficult in other dimensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u148	I guess the minister just didn't get me right. I actually asked in the context of the mandate for Invest-NL. That assignment is very broad. That's what we've been talking about here. In fact, that mission is so broad that we wonder where it ends. But that also means that all kinds of requests and questions can come to Invest-NL. That is why I believe that the background is important in order to be able to monitor that broad field of Invest-NL in a good way. I am not talking about diversity in gender, in colour and in physical and physical impairment, but simply about people from work fields that do not concern the usual pool for supervisory boards. I have that question for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u149	Thank you for the clarification. In my opinion, this is in line with my answer that diversity helps in this. Mrs Gerkens is talking about not the usual profiles. The question is, of course, how far you should stretch that in her image. Let's just be honest: there are certain criteria that just have to do with the quality, for example with the experience you typically expect from a supervisor, with sector-specific knowledge, with a certain track record and everything else, from study background to work experience. These are, of course, also very relevant criteria that you should very much like to take into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u150	I have to laugh a little, because this is exactly what I am asking, namely whether the Minister would like to look at that: what is the background of the members of the Supervisory Board? My goal is that we do not have the usual suspects at the table again, but the people who know the dynamics of the field in which Invest-NL is going to act. If the Minister is so difficult to answer, I almost start to suspect that the supervisory board has already been composed with these usual suspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u151	I began by saying 'yes' and I began by expressing my enthusiasm, particularly to Mrs Karimi and Mrs Van Huffelen. This also applies, of course, to the wider composition of the Supervisory Board. I tried to make it special, but I wanted to embrace the diversity issue wider than just Invest-NL and wider than just this supervisory board. Hopefully I'll say that to reassure you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u152	I thought this was a very good question from Mrs Gerkens, because this is a very separate world. I've been able to work in it for a few years in the past. That indeed requires a very different knowledge of things from what is customary in the political setting. I've studied the draft constitution extensively. That is where I saw an enlightened structure regime in which the supervisory board in fact also appoints the board of directors autonomously. This can actually be overruled by a two-thirds majority of the AVA. That board of directors is therefore crucial in the whole of the Invest-NL vehicle, also because it is put at a distance. I would therefore ask you once again, also in the follow-up to Mrs Gerkens, how to ensure that you really get people there who are familiar with these projects, who know the financial dynamics and the players in the market and who are probably used to a different renation than what is common in these cases. How are you going to ensure that? That's crucial to this story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u153	For the record, it is good to say something in a broader sense about state participations. That was implicit in my answer. How's it going with state participations? There are structural companies and organisations that are not structural companies. There are State participations that are 100% owned by the government. There are also state participations, such as Schiphol, which are partly owned by the government and partly owned by a municipality. Think of Amsterdam or Rotterdam. There are also State participations that are also in the hands of other states. In each of these state participations, the Ministry of Finance naturally looks at the quality, diversity and the profiles of Commissioners. It's part of governance. Of course, a new state participation, such as Invest-NL, which we consider to be extremely important for it to be a great success, takes a very strong look at the profiles of Commissioners and the directors.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u154	That is a rather unsatisfactory answer. Once this authorisation law comes into force, you can't do so much more. I am looking at the agreement we have just received with increasing amazement. One little A4 with some general terms is the investment policy with which 2.5 billion is invested. I'm just freaked out by this amateurism, although I don't even want to call it that. We can't be serious about that, can we? We are going to invest 2.5 billion and these are the investment criteria: we are doing something for agriculture, sustainability, open data, FinTech, renewable energy such as generation... With one little A4 we're going to spend 2.5 billion. That cannot be the intention, I ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u155	I think Mr Otten has just had an exchange of views with Mr Wiebes on the agreement. If that is to be repeated in the second term, I am sure I will speak for Mr Wiebes when I say that he is very much looking forward to it. But here we are specifically talking about the Commissioners and the 100%. Mr Otten says quite easily that the Minister cannot do so much after that. That really is a misunderstanding that needs to be eliminated. The State is 100% shareholder. I'm going to make another comparison with other state holdings. You bet the state's participations are very aware of the position they have. They are aware that the government will eventually come to the end. This brings with it all kinds of obligations, for example in the area of corporate social responsibility and the feelings that live in the States-General. Frankly, I think that there is often a search for more freedom there than the House of Representatives often thinks. Whether the state participation likes it or not, it means that the government reads: the minister or the cabinet, but ultimately also the States General is drawing the longest conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u156	There is an interruption by Mrs Teunissen, but before that I would like to ask how much longer you think you will need. We're planning a dinner break later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u157	Mr Otten stretched the block on corporate social responsibility somewhat with questions on other subjects. The advantage is that I have already mentioned a number of other things. I hope to be ready in about 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u158	Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u159	I have a brief, enlightening question about the diversity of the supervisory board. How will the Minister avoid choosing the "usual suspects" in the context of the sectors? We are dealing with a major transition issue, but I can imagine that the CEOs of large multinationals, for example, from energy companies, are being looked at almost automatically. How does the Minister anchor the diversity when it comes to the transition challenge in that supervisory board, for example by asking an entrepreneur or a sector that represents the real sustainable corner, such as solar energy storage and other forms of renewable energy? How's he gonna make that happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u160	This is in line with my previous answer: by having a very explicit dialogue with the chairman of the Management Board and the chairman of the Supervisory Board on the great importance of diversity. And also by looking into whether those parts are part of the profile sketch. Just look at the vacancies for all President-in-Office Commissioners of state participations and presidents of board of directors over the last few years. It always mentions such criteria. And rightly so, because we have been getting more and more attention for the last ten years. That's a good thing. Ms Karimi asked about the CSR standards and whether they should be imposed with a measure of governance. I don't think that's the most appropriate way. In my view, Mrs Karimi has read well what I have exchanged with the House of Representatives, specifically with regard to this state participation. I therefore see no reason at present to impose it on AMvB. I have promised the House of Representatives, precisely because we think it is all such an important subject, to look at the equity policy in the broader policy review we are going to do, at the level of the CSR that is anchored in various state participations. So that's wider than just Invest-NL. We'll see if that still requires policy adjustment. Then, the first evaluation of the Invest-NL Act after three years, as Minister Wiebes has just said, offers an opportunity to consider it specifically. Moreover, my observation is that state participations are very aware of this and are doing a lot in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u161	It's fine that it's being looked at in a general sense. The draft agreement between Invest-NL and the State states that the actual CSR policy is determined by Invest-NL itself. But we already have many international agreements and standards for this. The EU guiding principles are not appointed, the OECD rules are not appointed. In this respect, I think it is very vaguely formulated and really inadequate at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u162	What was your question, Mrs Karimi?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u163	I'd like the Minister to tighten that up. My first question is: do you want that tightening to take place in an AMvB?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u164	Mrs. Karimi will have looked at the recent legal history, I think. I do not think it is wise, precisely because I want to give a state participation the opportunity to take the first steps. Frankly, state participations have often surprised us positively with what they have done in this area in recent years. Invest-NL is currently in the process of doing so. That was the reason why the House of Representatives decided not to accept Mrs Karimi's amendment, but to give Invest-NL the chance to do it itself. Should it still fail, we will soon find out in an evaluation. But I don't have that expectation at all. If we had imposed this earlier, we would have had a soil where most of the state's holdings in my view are far above that. So we actually didn't have enough of those state participations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u165	Much of this progress has been made by the enormous pressure of civil society organisations, including towards state participation. But you can beat it to it. My question is whether you would at least like to tighten it up in that agreement. Precisely these international guiding principles and OECD rules should be guiding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u166	Why do I think that's less sensible than the alternative? Because CSR is a very specific part of the dialogue that we, as ministries, have very intensively engaged in with state participations. It was also very strongly part of the discussion with the intended chairman of the board, before the examination of the bill in the House of Representatives began. My observation is that these debates are also well followed by the intended director. This means that there too we will realise how important this is to be found in the States-General. To say in this state participation alone that we are going to prescribe in advance exactly how this should be done, I think it would affect the self-resolving capacity of this state participation. I would also like to give them the opportunity to be creative in that and perhaps to surprise Mrs Karimi and myself positively.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u167	I suggest we give the Minister a chance to finish this little block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u168	This block was finished, Mr. Chairman. I'm a long way too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u169	We will see if we can go to dinner, otherwise we will lose it, but I will give Mrs Van Huffelen a chance to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u170	On the topic of corporate social responsibility. You say that you do not want to commit it in the agreement, specifically for this state participation. It says that these are broad-based CSR criteria. In my contribution, I asked for the most ambitious CSR criteria. Could you make a commitment about the importance that you attach to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u171	Apparently with little success, but this whole first term is an attempt to underline the enormous importance that the cabinet and Minister Wiebes and I in particular attach to it. The way in which I am trying to take the Chamber is that we are all going to fall short of the state's participations, but also of these, in particular, if we are going to dictate how we now think it would fit best. I'm afraid we'll be tying them in in a way that just doesn't make sense. We have also been asked if we can update on Invest-NL internationally. In order to complicate it a little further, the Minister of BuHa-OS is responsible for policy. It is working on an authorisation law establishing the international branch, and that will appeal to Mr Otten. Then there were two questions in the category of reward. Mrs. Gerkens asked about the WNT. In fact, Mrs Sent has already answered that. Indeed, the WNT does not apply to State participations, nor to any of them. I would like to emphasise that if you put the state's participations together, you would immediately notice that the reward at Invest-NL is on the very sober side. Mrs Gerkens also asked how we would avoid hiring outsiders. That's really up to Invest-NL. That is the prerogative of state participations. Subsequently, financial performance is reported. There is always an opportunity to have the dialogue on this, but it is also wise that we do not send there directly. We do not do that in front of NS, TenneT, Schiphol, or any of the other state participations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u172	I think that the Minister's answer disappoints me a little, also because he doesn't say very clearly that he thinks that Invest-NL should not have an excessive number of external hires, at extremely high rates. The Minister, of course, knows that my group colleague across the street has asked for the Roemer standard to be applied. Unfortunately, that amendment did not succeed. But I don't see how the Secretary of State is gonna give up on this either. He also gives free space to Invest-NL on this point. I wish he could say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u173	I would like to respond to Mrs Gerkens where this can be done, but the reality is that the government has a different view on state participation policy than the SP group in this house and also on the other side, for example in the area of the WNT. The WNT does not apply to State participations. That is a very conscious choice of various cabinets. With regard to external hiring, very specific agreements have also been made on state participations. This does not alter the fact that there is occasional discussion about it, in ministries, but also with the House of Representatives. This may be the case, but the Cabinet and the House of Representatives have come to the conclusion that it would not be sensible or appropriate to declare the so-called Roemer standard applicable, because that also applies in a way that we do not consider appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u174	I understand the Minister and the SP disagree. That is why the Minister is also a member of another party, unfortunately, because otherwise he would be a member of ours. I would like to remind the Minister that today we are considering whether this is a legislative proposal that we can support. I ask him once again to be a little more critical of it. My question would be what he thinks of these amounts of external hire, because we will soon have a waterhead on everything that is being hired, in order to judge whether or not projects are being adopted. Precisely because the bill is so broad and so little framed, that is an inherent risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u175	I'm very much in favour of hypothesis-driven work, but now a link is being made with restraint to prescribe something. That can range from zero to a little bit to a little bit more. That can always be part of the debate and is often so, as I have just said. With regard to this link that it is not prescribed and that it will therefore become a waterhead, I do not see what interest it would have served for the investors of Invest-NL to do so. My observation is that hiring outsiders for organisations and ministries is often an emergency grip that is born in complicated times. A solution must then be sought either because someone is leaving or because specific knowledge is not available. It is not something that public institutions or state participations aim at in isolation. Again, I think it prudent and prudent not to prescribe in detail all State participations, but also these. I understand what Mrs Gerkens is saying, but I think we need to suppress a little bit of the tendency here to sit on the intended driver's seat, no matter how tempting that may be. If we really wanted to do that, we should apply for a position at Invest-NL, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u176	Mrs Gerkens, your third interruption on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u177	Mr President, I believe that the Minister is still looking for women, I say through you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u178	I must say to Mrs Gerkens that I do not know whether these two things can be reconciled; the membership of this house and of Invest-NL.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u179	That's right, I know. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'd like to say that the Minister doesn't understand what I mean. He says I want to shut everything down, that I'm asking for little rules, but that's not what I'm asking. I notice that the Minister is going into the details of the debate, while I ask him to give an order to Invest-NL to deal with them prudently. Of course, I also understand that there will be external hiring. With every good organization you have moments when external hiring must take place. We know that we have no control whatsoever over Invest-NL, as has been said several times. I would have liked it if the Minister had said here that he would also send the message to Invest-NL to deal with external hiring and the amounts paid for it, and he does not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u180	The question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u181	This may also have to do with it, I say in all courtesy, that in the dialogue with all state participations, the Ministry and also the administrators on the other hand are obviously very attentive to what is prudent in terms of investment, salary, gender and wider diversity. These are all very specific issues of dialogue. Something like external hiring is also an explicit part of that dialogue, should it be necessary. It is precisely for this reason that I am confident to follow the logic that we already follow in the case of state participations, not to decide that with each other at the moment. Mr. Chairman. I have a few final questions, including those of Mrs Faber, but I hope I have given some of the answer. To reassure you: although on the one hand I am far more remote than the ministers responsible for policy, I am very strongly questioned by the House of Representatives on all the issues that have come along here today, but that is a bit out of sight of the First Chamber. It also regularly provides me with motions which will then be followed up, think of the recent debate on the Volksbank. This has recently happened in the Political Reviews. This is about a large palette of subjects and a cabinet has to be aware of that. Certainly in the case of State participations which are largely in the hands of the government, the possibilities of intervention, if needed by the Cabinet or by the States-General, are of course very broad. Of course, a State participation such as Air France-KLM, with a 14% stake and with a different state and other actors, is of a different order than the Dutch Railways, where the State is 100% shareholder. But even in the case of state participations where we do not have 100%, not only in perception, but also in reality, there are a lot of opportunities to engage in an intrusive conversation, and if necessary to do more than that. Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Sent was still asking about...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u182	Mrs Faber, a brief interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u183	I'll be brief. We cannot ignore the fact that power ultimately rests with the two ministers rather than with the Chamber. Because the Chamber can turn upside down, but if the ministers, in consultation, do not want to, then the House of Representatives has just checked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u184	Then we're really failing the House of Representatives. In the end, Parliament is coming to the end, and that is how it should be in a democracy. Not for nothing there is dialogue on many of these kinds of issues. Take, for example, corporate social responsibility. Then I come into dialogue with the House of Representatives to a formula that we all think would work. There are, of course, subjects on which I may be of different opinion, but where the States-General, in the form of the House of Representatives, is absolutely the longest. That's the way it should be in a democracy. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Sent asked about confidentiality, business data and transparency. I think she's hitting the nail on the head. There is almost automatically a tension between many of our state participations, because on the one hand they are private companies, operate in a market and serve customers, while those customer data cannot all go out as easily as things happen in ministries, for example. But on the other hand, fortunately, they have a very high degree of openness. See also many of the recent discussions the House of Representatives has had on confidential reports for example in the State participation NS. In fact, there is no legal title to enforce this, but then the state participation and the minister responsible say that we are making that available. I can see the natural tension. I guess the soup in practice isn't usually eaten so hot. Mr. Chairman. Mr Atsma asked whether the cabinet felt that the AFM should also be able to judge Invest-NL's decisions. No, because Invest-NL is not a financial institution. There is also no need for a banking licence and no banking supervision will apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u185	I didn't ask about the AFM, but I asked about the role of the ACM, also in relation to the internal procedure at Invest-NL.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u186	Well, that depends on my hearing. I am looking at the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, who is responsible for the ACM. I'm just going over the AFM.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u187	This can be done in the government's second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u188	Mr Otten had a few final practical questions. He asked if the housing couldn't be more sober. In my opinion, state participations are always very much in search of austerity. That is also reported on, so we can discuss it, where necessary. Mr Otten had the impression that a very long-term IT contract would have been concluded. I didn't know the details, but I understand that that contract has a notice period of 12 months and can be terminated at the earliest after two years. If there is more to be exchanged, then I have to come back to that in the second term. Mrs Van Huffelen asked a very logical question, given what has already been exchanged with the Minister for Economic Affairs, namely: can Invest-NL potentially build up with pension funds? I think that's absolutely possible. I do not want to interfere, of course, with what that should look like and who should do what, but if there is any doubt, that can certainly be done. The last question is from Mrs Teunissen. She asked if I could indicate that projects by Invest-NL do not harm health, animal health and the environment. I believe that the agreement stipulates that Invest-NL will draw up an exclusion list and will not cooperate with companies covered by these exclusions. I am not sure whether Mrs Teunissen's bar will be completely met, but I think it is really an important step in the right direction. Mr President, that brings me to the end of my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u189	One question of mine has remained, about the international branch.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u190	I believe that I have removed it with a reference to Mr Kaag, who is still coming up with an agreement law. I could not fail to refer to one of your members, who is particularly interested in such agreements. I also referred to Minister Kaag, who has a role to play here as Dritte im Bunde. She's gonna come up with her own law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u191	Thank you. We walked a little bit. The intended end time of the dinner break was 19.15 hours. Is there any objection to us holding that time? Shall we hold on to that? Then I'll suspend until 7:15.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u192	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the legislative proposal Authorisation to establish the Dutch financing and development institution Invest-NL. We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Van der Linden.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u193	Mr. Chairman. I would like to address three issues in the second term: the uncertainties and comments that have been exchanged here, the question of cherrypicking and the opportunities it offers for EU money. Then I'll finish. A number of parties have identified some uncertainties and commented on them. An investment vehicle is being rigged, of which it is unclear which areas and which transitions Invest-NL are actually going to pick up and how exactly the steering is going to take place. Transitions and the need for them are political choices. At least that is the opinion of our group. Just look at the field of sustainability. Are windmills sustainable and necessary for transition, or is thorium necessary for sustainable transition? Transitions are predominantly political and are politically controlled. So this is a political fund. I'll get to that in a minute. It is also unclear how the efficiency requirements will be dealt with. Several groups have made a point of this. That is only considered a little after three years, we heard in the answer. It is not clear how the rack of market failure implementation will unfold and how the success or lack of market failure will be filled in. That's the first thing. Second, cherrypicking. Everyone here knows their pappenheimers. I also hear various parties tonight saying what they think this fund should be used for and in which it should be invested. These are, of course, themes in their own vein. That makes sense, too. The result is that everyone sees opportunities for this, not only here, but also in the papers on the other side. The PVV saw the fund there as a little support for SMEs. That's what we heard today. GroenLinks sees Invest-NL primarily as the green investment bank. By the way, they already exist: ASN and Triodos market themselves as a green investment bank. At least on the other side, the SP mentioned an impetus for social housing and energy transition. The VVD insists on the combination of market failures, business principles and positive returns. The Minister for Economic Affairs said: public money is fraternizing. Of course that's true, but the result is: "a jack of all trades is a master of none." Then you get a craft fund, a transition man-of-all, an all-man friend, I hear D66 say. I'm sure I'll warn you of disappointment, because all of this will not be done by the fund. That's the second thing. Thirdly, there is a claim to subsidies from Brussels. Well, not subsidies, but can participate in money from Brussels. The Minister said something about it in his contribution and it is also in the documents. With the creation of this fund, the special pot of gold in Brussels is also ready for us. We have not yet been able to make use of it. The Forum for Democracy sees this differently: it is a bit of a reversal. That pot's right there. Let's use it. No, the Netherlands is one of the largest net contributors to the EU. That pot is a cigar from its own box, both in terms of subsidies and funding. Let us now do our best to do something about this grant in Brussels. So don't join in and join us out of that rifle, but get the hell out of here. Let us argue for this rather than now in all those funds that are a cigar out of our own box. So an appeal to the cabinet: visit Mrs Von der Leyen and plead to stop instead of eating with her. Then the net contribution of the Netherlands may also be reduced. Well, let's finish. I indicated in the first term why the Forum for Democracy is against this proposal. I'll name three parts. This has been tried and failed many times in the past. Two. To tackle market failures, there are already instruments, both from the public authorities and in the market. There are constant developments that allow new sources of funding. Think of crowdfunding when the banks don't do it anymore. Three. Most importantly, there is not really a problem that this fund is going to solve. Those arguments stand. It is also clear from the legal history that there are hardly any criteria that can be established. So the risk of feelgood projects is real. The government's gonna take action. If we agree to this proposal, we will leave a silver fleet of EUR 2.5 billion in water, but whether it is seaworthy? Time will tell. As far as we are concerned, the past is not hopeful.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u194	Thank you, Mr. Van der Linden. I call Mrs Karimi.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the directors for their first reply. Some of these answers have increased our enthusiasm. I have noted a number of commitments and hope that they will be confirmed. Invest-NL should not make investments that may conflict with societal transition declarations. Ask the Minister of EZK how he intends to shape this. I was pleased with his answers, but now I would like to know how he intends to shape them. In what way will the Chamber be informed? The second point I have noted is that the development task of Invest-NL will focus on coordination in relation to the social transition challenge. This is not a development task in a broad sense, but rather a social transition task. I'm happy about that, too. The third point, which was also an important point in my contribution in the first term, was about the fossil sector. I noted that the Minister said there would be no investment in fossil projects, and no investment that could put us in a fossil energy situation. This, plus the first commitment, gives me sufficient confidence for now. Then I come to the point of diversity. The Minister of Finance is determined to make this a priority, for which at least we support it. Can I ask the Minister to inform us at least when the board of directors and the supervisory board are fully appointed about its composition and to justify how diversity has taken shape? My last, but not least important, point is social responsibility. To be honest, I am the least satisfied with that. That is why I am giving the following points for consideration to the directors. First of all: can Invest-NL sign the Climate Agreement? That would, of course, be a first step in realising that. The second point is an additional agreement on what we have now received as a concept, which, in the final version, at least mentions the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the OECD guidelines as basic standards for corporate social responsibility. Knowledge needs to be developed at Invest-NL. It concerns not only Invest-NL itself, but also, above all, the SMEs who will make use of the investment. They must be helped to implement CSR policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u196	Thank you, Mrs Karimi. Then I give the floor to Mrs Van Huffelen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u197	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks to both ministers for their answers in the first term, and certainly for the passion with which they spoke about the societal transitions they want to achieve with Invest-NL. What I like and like about this debate is that a concern that I mentioned in my first term has been taken away. That is because there would be a kind of double investment option: on the one hand, in CO reduction and on the other hand in the fossil industry. You have made it clear that that cannot be the purpose of this fund and that it must also be excluded. I'm glad you want to make a strong commitment to diversity. I am therefore going to make sure that this will apply not only to the fund itself but also to the organisations in which it will be invested. The same applies to corporate social responsibility. You have indicated that you have strong intentions in this regard. You have also indicated that this is being monitored. I will continue to follow that in the evaluations we will get in our Chamber. One point I still have concerns about is the diversity of the fund in relation to various projects. It may be that, while encouraging the various projects from these different sectors, good investment is being made in individual companies, they do not in themselves achieve a transition. I would therefore ask you to give Invest-NL to look at how they contribute to a transition, beyond just one's own business, when selecting investments. On the subject of the threshold for the Minister of Finance. The Minister indicated that he would be coming to talk about the level of the border for investments that would end up on his plate. In particular, I would encourage him not to set it too low, if only because it would also enable the Minister of Finance to take part in the assessment of individual projects. Finally. Based on the answers I have received so far, I am going to advise my group to vote for Invest-NL.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u198	Thank you, Mrs Van Huffelen. Then I give the floor to Mrs Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank both ministers for their answers. My first question is actually addressed to the spokesperson of the PvdA. In an interruption, she said she did not know why she should deviate from the rule that state participations should not comply with the WNT. You may have noticed that I was equally surprised by that answer. I thought, "It can't be that the PvdA thinks that way, can it?" I checked that again, and it's true. On the website of the PvdA itself, it really says: "That is why we bring everyone who is paid tax money under the Standards Act top incomes." The fact that the PvdA is working on this can be seen, for example, in parliamentary questions she asked about the top incomes of NS officials, an example which has been cited several times today by the Minister of Finance. In fact, the Code of Conduct of the PvdA also states: "PvdA employees working in administrative positions in the (semi) public sector and in state participations therefore comply with the Law on Standards of Top Incomes and, as a rule, earn no more than the so-called standard income of the Prime Minister." The reasons for this departure seem clear to me. My question to the PvdA group is why it does not do so here. Mr. Chairman. The same applies to the Minister's reply on the WNT. That law lays down a number of criteria for what applies to the semi-public sector. When I read it, I can really put a cross in every box. I wonder, therefore, whether the Minister is not walking away too easily from this point of view, saying that this is a state participation. I'd like to hear that from him. Mr. Chairman. In fact, I haven't gotten any happier with this debate. Frankly, I'm very disappointed. There is a bill here that has received broad support from the House of Representatives. It was adopted unanimously. It's a bill I started by saying it met a long-cherished desire of the SP. Of course, we are asking a few critical questions here, precisely because it is our role to look at the enforcement and feasibility of this bill. And then there will be no movement or understanding from the Minister of Finance. Honestly, I don't understand. This Minister could have responded to our wishes with a few comments, but he chose a rigid position. That's too bad. That makes me have to go back to my group with questions, when I came up with the idea that we could support this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u200	Thank you, Mrs Gerkens. I call Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u201	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Ministers for their reply. The Animal Party welcomes the tightening up of the exclusion of fossil projects. As far as we are concerned, that is not the end of the matter. When it comes to the protection of animal welfare, public health and climate, nothing is regulated in this legislative proposal. However, the government refers to the policy on corporate social responsibility in the agreement concluded between Invest-NL and the State. It states that existing standards for corporate social responsibility and the list of exclusions are drawn up by Invest-NL. My group believes that there should be more guidance from the Minister and Parliament in this respect. That's why I'm coming up with the next motion. The President shall: Mr Teunissen, Mr Nicolaï, Mr Gerkens, Mr Karimi and Mr Gerbrandy proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the recital in the preamble to the agreement between the State and Invest-NL underlines the importance of a policy for corporate social responsibility;]] [[Whereas Article 4.2 (a), (b) and (c) of this Agreement provides that standards are to be established as well as a list of exclusions from matters contrary to corporate social responsibility;]] [[Calls on the Government to add to Article 4 of this Agreement a paragraph stating that the standards referred to in points (a), (b) and (c) of Article 4.2 and the list of exclusions shall be approved by the Minister;]] [[invites the Government to inform the States General of the intended approval before the decision is taken,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35123-I]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u202	I look forward to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u203	Thank you, Mrs Teunissen. I call Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u204	Mr. Chairman. I asked for this debate because I did not feel very good about the Invest-NL Authorisation Act. Another toy for politicians to hand out money, I thought. We've seen at the Wadden Fund how that works. I also found the quick appointment of Wouter Bos a sign on the wall. Mr. Chairman. I was shocked by this debate today. The situation is much worse than I thought. Recommendations of the Council of State are simply not being followed. We have not heard a clear definition of "market failure" from the cabinet today. Audit by the Court of Auditors is not adequately regulated. This law is in fact a free pass for the board of Invest-NL to do what it feels like. The most shocked is our group of the draft agreement between the State and Invest-NL. In the past, I have been involved in the creation of such agreements between the State and State participations, and I was really shocked when I saw what was produced here. 2.5 billion taxpayers' money is invested on the basis of a vague A4 with investment criteria that apparently were devised after noon somewhere. It really freaked me out. It hasn't been shown before; at least I haven't seen it that often. I was reminded of Mr Rosenmöller, who raised a right point during the General Reviews. He asked, "Where was the First Chamber under PAS legislation?" How did all this get through the Upper Chamber? I thought that was a good question from Mr Rosenmöller at the time. I also wonder why politics does not learn from its mistakes. I see that the same mistakes are now being made. The quality of this authorisation law, and in particular the additional agreement, cannot pass the test of criticism. It is clear that as a group we are opposed to the Invest-NL Authorisation Act. I am realistic enough to see that groups will nevertheless vote for it. That's why I'm filing two motions. The first motion is aimed at repealing the Act of Permission. If that is not possible, I have a motion to hold the vote until a good, sound and sound supplementary agreement between the State and Invest-NL has been concluded. I'll hand over the motions to the chairman. The President shall: Mr Otten, Mr De Vries and Mr Rookmaker proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Council of State has recommended that the instrument of an Additional Agreement is not an appropriate instrument for further defining the tasks of Investment NL;]] [[Whereas the current concept of the Supplementary Agreement for the regulation of the tasks of Invest-NL is legally totally inadequate and contains far too short general vague investment criteria, which does not reflect the planned investment of EUR 2.5 billion;]] [[Whereas the democratic control of Invest-NL is also not adequately regulated;]] [[Whereas the powers of control of the General Court of Auditors are not adequately regulated by the Enquiry Act;]] [[calls on the Government to repeal the Authorisation Act on the Establishment of the Invest-NL,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] Mr Otten, Mr De Vries and Mr Rookmaker proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the quality of the current legislation of the Invest-NL Authorisation Act has proved insufficient in the debate with the Minister of EZK and the Minister of Finance;]] [[Whereas the Council of State has recommended that an additional agreement is not an appropriate instrument for further defining the tasks of Invest-NL;]] [[Whereas the current concept of the Supplementary Agreement "Designing a State-Invest-NL Agreement" does not provide a sufficient basis for an investment of EUR 2.5 billion of tax money in Invest-NL;]] [[calls on the Government first to draft an acceptable additional agreement and to agree with Invest NL and to maintain the treatment of the Ivest-NL Authorization Act in the First Chamber until a satisfactory additional agreement has been concluded in the Court's opinion,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35123-J]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35123-K]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u205	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both directors for their pleasant answers to the questions from our Chamber. With the Minister of Finance, I keep good memories of the debate on the gradual phasing out of the double tax reduction in the reference minimum wage. We both made our maiden speech about that. The market and the government are often confronted. However, market and government cannot live without each other. In fact, the government is the biggest venture capitalist. For example, Mariana Mazzucato's research shows convincingly. This courage is urgently needed for societal transition challenges in areas such as energy and sustainability and in areas such as care and education. This boldness requires attention to both market failure and government failure, as I indicated in the first term. Mr. Chairman. I am very pleased that the Minister for Economic Affairs supports our analysis of government failure and embraces our proposed solution. Political supervision is essential, but at a general level and not at a project level. My group would like to leave the evaluation of projects to an institute at some distance. We wholeheartedly support Senator Karimi's request on diversity, because we welcome the fact that the Minister of Finance is a feminist, but in a sense he also mentioned the importance of quality. Research shows that we often judge quality by sex glasses. Hence support for Senator Karimi's request. With regard to the WNT, I can repeat my previous reply. The WNT does not apply to State participations. An extension of the WNT is certainly negotiable for the Labour Party, but that requires a change of law and that is not the issue right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u206	I am pleased that the PvdA wants at least a legislative amendment to that effect. But I also referred to the views of the PvdA and the code of conduct. How does she judge it now? She says: in this case, does the code of conduct not have to count?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u207	What matters in this Chamber is compliance with legislation. In this case, legislation does not call for a WNT in State participations. That is why I would very much like to think about a legislative amendment to open up that possibility. But that's not the issue right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u208	That's a little too easy. The PvdA has a very comprehensive code of conduct, in which this is described in detail and which states that former PvdA politicians, if they are given a position in business or elsewhere, still have an exemplary role and that they must comply with the beaming standard. One would almost expect the PvdA to support such a motion, or at least to support the call, or at least, when a former PvdA's chairman becomes chairman, to comply with that standard. How does she feel that this is not happening now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u209	I didn't see a motion. However, I have argued about what the current legislation and regulations are. We very much like to think along with the SP about extending the Top Income Standards Act, in order to make it applicable to state participations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u210	Then the whole code of conduct of the PvdA is just a wash nose.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u211	Of course, I do not share that conclusion. Mr President, I will conclude. My group supports the aim of Invest-NL and eight Invest-NL are also the right instrument for achieving the goal. This fits perfectly with the ideas of Jan Tinbergen, whose Nobel Prize we honor this year, 50 years after the ceremony. However, in memory of Tinbergen, we would like to ensure that this one instrument is not used for multiple purposes. But we are happy to do so at an appropriate distance in line with our input. That is why the proposal before us today can count on our support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u212	Thank you, Mrs. Sent. I am happy to give the floor to Mr Van Ballekom.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u213	Mr. Chairman. The VVD Group would like to thank the rulers for answering the questions. My group also hopes that Invest-NL may become a very successful institution, which, by the way, does not distribute taxpayers' money but lends it. A successful institution, because then we are dealing with a win-win-win situation. We can realize projects that fit in with the transition statement "That's huge" we can lighten the budget and we can still make a profit. What more do you want? For these reasons, my group will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u214	Thank you, Mr. Van Ballekom. Mr Atsma has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u215	Mr President, thank you. I would also like to thank the two heads of government for the appropriate response we have given. We welcome the commitment of both ministers that the House of Representatives is informed not only of the Lower House, but also of the First Chamber of Representatives on an annual basis and that we do not have to look into the future on the basis of a seven-yearly evaluation whether Invest-NL is doing what it is being set up for. I made a few comments and asked a few questions. The Minister did not address the question concerning the ACM. I do not need to repeat it; I think he has enough of this abbreviation. What will be the role of the ACM when it comes to the assessment, the review of the applications? I have dealt with the social added value and I have said that perhaps we should be careful whether, for example, the extremely important nitrogen transition for the Dutch economy can be taken into account in the whole. The Minister didn't go into that. However, I saw in the annex, for which I thank you, that AI, the artificial intelligence, is indeed one of the domains that can be supported. All this means that if we look at the questions for which we have been hired as the First Chamber, namely whether a legislative proposal is legally, enforceable, enforceable and effective in the direction of Mr Van der Linden, our answer is 'yes'. I will therefore advise the group to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u216	Thank you, Mr. Atsma. Gentlemen, will you be able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? That's the case. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u217	Mr. Chairman. The first question that is really addressed to me as a question is Mrs Karimi's question. She asks me to explain how I want to ensure that there will be no investments contrary to the transition. My intention, and at the same time a commitment, is to lay that down in the supplementary agreement. Here's the promise. At the same time, I will talk to Invest-NL's management about the fact that it is important to avoid lock-in in ways that suit that project. Here's to it. Mrs Van Huffelen asks me to tell Invest-NL that projects should not only contribute to their own business, but really contribute to the transition. That's nuanced. For goal number one, the transition paths, the company is not at all central, but the project, so the goal. So that is the case automatically. Serving the interests of a company is not a priority, but serving the importance of the transition, in a way that does revolve. On target number two, the scale-ups and SMEs, we have established that this should not be contradictory. That is the way I want to put it. Mr Otten continued to look for a definition of market failures. For that I will have to refer him to the explanatory statement, because it contains a rather detailed argument. He's filed two motions. The first motion, the motion on letter J, calls for the authorisation law to be repealed because democratic control is not adequately regulated. That seems to me to be a vote of no confidence at his own address, because this is not justified. I therefore advise against this motion. The second motion, the motion in part No. K, requests that proceedings be held in the First Chamber until a satisfactory additional agreement has been concluded. I have only heard from one Member that the agreement is unsatisfactory. So you could say that the motion has been complied with. I could leave the judgment to the Chamber, but in all honesty I think that is nonsense, because the additional agreement is not at all related to an authorisation law establishing it, because an additional agreement can still be revised during the journey. This is not so much about the creation. Perhaps that is a piece that will be revised over the years, after changes in social perceptions. That is why I do not think the link is correct and I do not recommend this second motion. Then I owe Mr Atsma two more answers. I had to look and think about it, but in the assessment of projects I see no role for the ACM. The ACM is a market supervisor and this is a financing institution. If cartels are created, the ACM has a role to play. But unlike that, I see no role for the ACM in investment paths in the process. He also asked whether the nitrogen transition could also be eligible for projects by Invest-NL. Essentially, it could. I am a little concerned that for the time being I do not see a conclusive wage model in the reduction of nitrogen. But there could be. Nothing's out of the question. By the time sensible earning models come up, this can be adapted to the goals and this transition can somehow play a role in them. But that does not seem to me to be the issue at the moment. Mr President, so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u218	I had asked the Minister what he would come back to when he answered the first question. I asked him if he was aware that there have been applications that have been rejected by Invest-NL.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u219	I didn't get a formal rejection report. That's right. Apologies. I owed Mr Atsma that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u220	Thank you, Minister. I shall then give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u221	Thank you, Mr President. I shall begin with an answer that I still owe to Mr Otten. I already thought I had resolved with the PVV Group that the Court of Auditors is not a supervisor, but can simply do research. The supervisor of Invest-NL is the Supervisory Board, where I am the supervisor of the Supervisory Board, your Chamber that belongs to me and the electorate that belongs to your Chamber. But what was still open was the observation made earlier by the Court of Auditors on the legislative proposal. He primarily observed the passage that was about the international side. I think that, because we divorced it, we solved that problem. Moreover, some other points have been raised in the explanatory memorandum. In doing so, we have tried to clarify what the Court of Auditors still saw as unclear. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mrs Karimi for her comments. I would like to inform the Chamber of the composition of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board. I report once a year anyway about the diversity of all state participations, primarily to the House of Representatives, but this point has the sincere attention of me and of the entire cabinet. She also asked me whether I would like to include the OECD directives and the UN directives in the agreement. I do not think that is useful at the moment, because we are also going to try to include it in the CSR policy and therefore apply it directly to all state participations. I really do think that I will just reflect on the conversations I have with them that the State participations themselves want to set the bar higher than at the level given to us internationally. Mr. Chairman. Then I am with Mrs Van Huffelen, who once again specifically asked me if I would not want to lower the threshold. Apparently, the worst thing could happen is that those thresholds would be so low that I would then be in a position to assess projects. That, of course, should be prevented at all costs, I understood from her second term. I'd like to avoid that, too, so I won't put them too low. Mr. Chairman. I'll be with Mrs. Gerkens. She still had a small fitty which I think was not so much addressed to me as to the Labour Party. The exegesis of what's on that website, I think they solved it together. That's not up to me either. Then I come to the WNT, but at least let me say one thing first. I would have liked to have done this in the first place, but I forgot about it in the first place. The cabinet is extremely contented that we have found the intended chairman of the board willing to take on this complicated job. We believe that he is particularly suitable for this. Then I come to Mrs Gerkens' point about the WNT. That WNT is just a stand-alone policy for state participations. It is true that the SP Group, at least on the other side, feels differently, but this is not something that is happening now only with Invest-NL. Quite the contrary. Frankly, most of the state's participations are more generous than Invest-NL. Mrs Gerkens, of course, dared me to be even more courteous in her direction. I think she's referring to the WNT and the hiring of third parties. Of course, I want to be flexible in this and I understand that she is performing the Roemernorm again, but these are all elements which are part of the state participation policy and which are also exchanged and agreed with the House of Representatives in this way. So I would like to content her, but that is really not possible in this debate. But I understood that she was going to make a law with the Labour Party, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u222	What strikes me is that the Minister again puts words in my mouth that I do not take in my mouth. That is also a bit why I have just made this remark. The Minister is addressing the Chamber with a number of concerns which at least my party has about the possibility that it could get out of hand with the external hire, either in the amount of the external hire, or in the amount of what is paid for it. Surely the Minister could have said that he understands that this concern lives with our party and that he will try to monitor that it will not come to that? But he immediately fired into the defense in a certain way, which I wonder whether that reassures me or not. That's exactly why I just made the point that I didn't make it better when it comes to how positive I am about this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u223	I very much hope, of course, that the SP Group will also be able to see the fine parts of this bill on further reflection. I have simply tried, with all sincerity, to point out to Mrs Gerkens that all those issues that we consider important to each other, the cabinet really does, like the award of remuneration, that is to say, the remuneration of the people under the board of directors, which the WNT often does not apply to, because they deserve a lower salary, the diversity, the hiring of externals and corporate social responsibility, are part of that dialogue very clearly, administratively and politically. I have therefore particularly wanted to say to Mrs Gerkens that I very much agree with that. It's part of the dialogue. Wherever necessary, I'll feed it myself. Mrs Gerkens asked me if the Roemer standard could be applied. In addition, I have tried to distinguish between my... She shakes her head, because apparently she didn't mean to, but that's how I understood it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u224	No, I didn't mean that. The Minister has already put words in my mouth a number of times, to which he replied, while he has not responded to the questions I have asked. But I am glad to hear that he is now trying to say a little more generously that this is something that is taking place in the dialogue. I will take it to my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u225	In order to avoid misunderstandings, that was, is and remains part of the dialogue, not only in this state participation but in all state participations. Perhaps that is so self-evident to me because I regularly exchange views with the House of Representatives on what we think we can expect from each other in terms of diversity, management and social participation. And really, I say to all Members, the bar is considerably higher there than in business and much of the rest of society.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u226	It is a good thing that the Minister makes the comparison with the bar in business, because I must support Mrs Gerkens in this. I've been calculating a little bit over the last few days to see what Invest-NL has been spending around. I come to something of EUR 16 million that has already been committed, if I add up all the amounts. I've also asked questions about sobriety. I know the Minister of Finance as a sober minister. That's the way it's supposed to be. If I compare it with the business community, I get the feeling that at the moment money is being treated with a lot of skill at Invest-NL. It could be a little less. We don't need three offices and 20-year-old IT contracts and so on. Moreover, I have not yet received an answer as to whether it was a cheaper or more expensive contract. That question is still open. But in general, how are you going to get this whole vehicle rolled out a little sober?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u227	For the record, we are, of course, trying to make that clear in all State participations. This means that all kinds of fairly practical aspects of business management, partly at official level, are very strongly discussed. Then it's about renovations, about a potential move or about what kind of contracts people are offered on the work floor. That is a very specific part of the dialogue. I just honestly don't recognize the idea that Invest-NL would have spent an unreasonable amount of money up to now or would be about to commit it. I don't recognize that. I very much agree with Mr Otten that austerity is also a virtue for state participation. It was an implicit compliment in my direction, but I thank him for that. I would like to thank Mrs Sent very much for taking up the forgetfulness of the debate on the double tax rebate. In that respect, this debate is about just a little bit bigger. She also referred to Tinbergen, which I liked in the context of this debate and the issues that came through in this debate. She also made a comment about quality and diversity in appointments. I totally agree with her that these things go hand in hand. I just wanted to mention that they're both important. The talented women in my environment always insist on paying attention to the fact that they want to be appointed in a certain place because of their quality. I understand that very well. That's why you have to bring both these subjects with you very strongly. Mr. Chairman. Then all I have left is Mrs Teunissen's motion. It is a bit along the lines of the debate we have had. Much of what Mrs Teunissen has said about it is quite sympathetic, but precisely given the dialogue I had with Mrs Karimi and given what we are going to do, I find it uncomfortable to treat Invest-NL differently from the other state participations. I really think there's an element of superfluousness in it. I might ask her to have some more faith in me, but at least in Invest-NL, because I think that her expectations will be fulfilled. If she doesn't want to take that entirely for face value, she might want to hold the motion for a long time, because if we don't feel comfortable about it with each other, then we can always take such a subject off the shelf again. But if Mrs Teunissen maintains the motion in this form, then I must dissuade her at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u228	Of course, I want to give confidence to the Minister of Finance, but it is not a question of trust. This motion offers an additional means of steering to ensure that there really are no issues that are contrary, for example, to our environmental objectives. I would ask the Minister to look at the motion with that look and not just on the basis of confidence, because that is not at all the issue here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u229	I and my colleague, Mr Wiebes, both wanted to emphasise how important we are to this type of objective, which we have in our cabinet. There is no question that Invest-Nederland will follow a path that would be counterproductive, apart from my observation that the Party for Animals bar is often even higher than the average of the Chamber. But the intention of Invest-NL is crystal clear. That is also evident from this debate. The question concerns him precisely, as Mrs Teunissen herself says, options for steering. I think, on the contrary, that, given the way in which we in the Netherlands deal with state participations, we should give a number of frameworks to state participations, but also a certain degree of freedom. In addition, the broader CSR policy for all State participations is once again mentioned. In any case, I am convinced of this, but I hope that much wider in this Chamber is the case of Invest-NL's intentions to do this con amore and do more than what is necessary. I would really like to give that to this new state participation, Invest-Netherlands, and not to add it to the front here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u230	Mr. Atsma. Oh, Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u231	Mr President, I would like to make one final point. We must not forget that this additional agreement is a policy instrument. Then it is also logical that a State-General, a minister, should supervise that policy, but also have the power to control it. If, according to this proposal, we can only evaluate after three years, then we will not be able to adjust at all in the meantime. I think that's very undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u232	Then maybe in abundance. For all State-owned They can fill that in to a large extent, but as I have just exchanged with Mrs Karimi, it is very often taken into account what is coming for us, for example, from the United Nations and from the OECD. There is typically a higher bar. For example, in the area of diversity, the bar is often raised. On top of that, when we had a similar dialogue, the House of Representatives and I reached the following conclusion. Why do we not take a full look at what we expect from all State participations in the area of CSR? If we are to lay a foundation, let us do so for all state participations. That's logical and reasonable, too. I would also like to ask Mrs Teunissen, however well I think I understand her intentions, to go down that road and to shape the CSR policy for the government as a whole, rather than providing for this state participation in formation, because it happens to be passing by now. I think we really should do it on the royal route.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u233	I'm trying to add another argument. Maybe that'll convince the minister. Other state participations that must follow CSR policy are also sometimes included in the media because of situations where CSR policy has not been fully respected. Just critical projects. I think it is important for both the Cabinet and the Chamber, given the support that is needed for all the transitions we have to go through, that Invest-NL should not be confronted with negative situations right from the start. The Minister should therefore seize every opportunity to get CSR high on the agenda at Invest-NL with both hands. Is the Minister prepared to go one step further and not just wait for the general CSR policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u234	I understand very well that Mrs Karimi has a particular interest in this too. Let's do it like this. As soon as Invest-NL has developed its own CSR policy, I will share this with the Chamber. I would also be happy to discuss this in writing or orally. What are we trying to reconcile here? I believe that this is the burning wish on the part of the Chamber, but also on the part of the Cabinet, to ensure that we take social responsibility to a higher level, including in this state participation. On the other hand, I am trying to keep the integrity of the policy whole. We cannot, in this state participation, and in the next, and later in the next, generate exceptions on a large number of subjects. After all, we have a very beautiful and rich basket of state participations, of great diversity. I think it will help to apply some uniformity on this point. So I want to agree to share it with the Chamber as soon as Invest-NL is ready. If the Chamber then says that it is far too little and that it calls for a written or oral exchange of views with the Minister, I am of course happy to be able to do so. But I think we will never reach this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u235	We're almost on slippery ice right now. Does the Minister agree with us that the lower limit must always be the national laws and regulations to which everyone must comply? Above all, let us be careful that Invest-NL will soon put its own benefits on legislation and regulation. The framework must be completely clear. I do not think there should be any ambiguity about this, by suggesting in a few last sentences that we should have less or less. We know the laws and regulations. That's the lower limit. That must be absolutely clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u236	I agree with Mr Atsma. His comment gives me the opportunity to clarify it. The lower layer, which applies to each company and to each state participation, is of course the law. Most companies, at least all state participations, impose a low level on them. That low is called policy. This policy often includes corporate social responsibility. In any case, all State participations have laid that layer on it. That is self-chosen, but that is a standard that we can then hold a state participation to. In politics, there is broad support for state participation to be kept to that extra low. Mr Atsma is absolutely right that this is something other than a enforceable law, but politically it is relevant. I would therefore like to agree with the House as follows: in that additional layer, the piece of CSR is being revised in dialogue with the House of Representatives. That is why I am in favour of doing that uniform in order to prevent one state participation from being conceived with five things, the next with three things and the next with other things. I do not think that is wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u237	I agree. As long as it is absolutely clear which framework one should reflect on. It should not be the case in the future that Invest-NL itself will decide which pluses are placed on laws and regulations. It is fine if the framework outlined by the Minister goes to the Chambers, as long as it is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u238	Yes. Just because I agree with Mr Atsma's basic idea, my response was towards Mrs Karimi as it was.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u239	I still have a supplementary question on it, also in support of Mrs Teunissen. There is a difference in CSR between Invest-NL and the other State participations. The agreement shows that the CSR policy directly determines the projects in which Invest-NL will invest. Of course, that is different from the CSR policy of the NS, for example, because the NS does not invest in participations, start-ups, scale-ups and so on. Then why is the Minister making that comparison?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u240	We are dealing here with two categories. Firstly, the category where the State participation has to hold itself. That is where the state's participation, inspired by politics, lays the cesorship itself. In Invest-NL there is a category: who do you invest in? Most of the State's participations relate to a wide range of suppliers, co-producers and business partners. Invest-NL examines to what extent these are parties with which it seems appropriate to participate in business. Invest-NL's mission is therefore a different one, but in my opinion the domain is the same, namely: do you keep to certain self-imposed agreements and do you expect the same from the person you do business with?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u241	Well, that's not quite upsetting, is it? If the NS has a CSR policy, it may determine which supplier it purchases the chassis from, but not whether NS lets trains run. At Invest-NL, CSR policy directly determines its core activity, namely financing and investing in companies. That's a real difference, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u242	Yeah, but I think I just turned that in. Of course it's a difference. But this is precisely what this is all about, and according to Invest-NL, this is also the intention of Invest-NL to involve this not only narrowly in itself, but also in order to involve it more broadly. I believe that the comparison with many other State participations is relevant there, because we once started the debate on corporate social responsibility with the company or the state participation itself. Then that is expanded to include the question: who are you doing business with? I am thinking of the recent debate in this Chamber on child labour. If you go one step further, you'll also talk about the banks that you might still have on your balance sheet. I would like to draw attention to the socially very relevant debate on grey and green assets. You can see that expanding. You can see that Invest-NL has a specific scoop and therefore also assesses its business partners and the parts in which it invests. To be honest, I would say to Mr van der Linden, that is very desirable, because if you were only to do the narrow thing, you would leave a huge opportunity. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u243	Thank you, Minister. I'm going to see Mrs. Karimi.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u244	A question from me has not been answered. I think the Minister of EZK should answer that. It is my request that Invest-NL also sign the Climate Agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u245	Then I will give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, if he is prepared to take it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u246	Invest-NL is involved in the climate commitment of the financial sector, but individual companies such as Invest-NL do not sign a climate agreement. They have been involved in the preparation, because we do not want to take irreversible steps, in the further development and in concrete projects. Invest-NL will simply participate, but has not been at the table as an individual party so that it now owes a signature. That's not how it works. Everyone sits at the table and comes back to the table; it becomes a bit of an influx from the side. But this party doesn't have to flow in sideways and just sits in the middle, because she's gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u247	Thank you, Minister. I'll look around and see if there are any further questions from the Chamber. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u248	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote on the bill next week. I see no objection to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u249	Mr. Otten?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u250	I would like to see my motions put to the vote before the vote on the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-10.u251	That is what you can request and that request is also being accepted. If I'm right, you should do it next week. We'll see about that. Finally, I propose that at least next week we vote on the motions that have been tabled. I see no objection to that either.
