ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is the copy of the legislative proposal for a temporary legislative adjustment of the discount rate of Mr Van Rooijen, Section 34606. The second term of office took place on 22 May 2018. This is therefore the final document, in which the initiator and the Minister are given the opportunity to respond to the Court's contribution in the second term. Again a warm word of welcome to the initiator and his staff behind him, and also to the minister. Thank you for joining us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr Van Rooijen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-9.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Here we are: the second deadline for a temporary interest rate of 2%. The demolition bullet of the ECB buy-out programme has carried out its murderous executioner's work. Draghi was the executioner and delivered the verdict on our pension benefits and even shaken the most beautiful pension system in the world. After all, trust has fallen as much as interest. With his €2,600 billion buy-back programme, he has set Southern Europe, and especially Italy, on fire, but he has set our pensions on fire. 50PLUS has opposed this by all means. Mr Van Kent of the SP and Mr De Jong of the PVV have also clearly opposed it. GroenLinks went a long way, but ultimately does not support this initiative, at least that is what we understood at the time. But it seems that all the other parties in this Chamber are literally abandoning pensioners and active pension fund participants in the context of this debate. These parties apparently do not attach any value to the prevention of discounts. I understand that the representatives of the political groups who are opposed to my proposal can sympathise with our arguments, but do not consider the solution of a temporary basis in the calculation rate acceptable. Many follow the policy of the European Central Bank, when they disagree with it. Then why don't they want to fix the consequences with us? Moreover, interest rate manipulation has not changed in principle since 1 January 2019. Although net purchases of bonds have stopped, there is still a policy of maintaining an amount spent on the buy-in. The ECB continues to reduce interest rates on a large scale. That's what the bank does against the background of dark clouds gathering over our global economy. With what instrument will the European Central Bank respond to an economic downturn in the near future? This can only be done with extraordinary instruments. The end of the extreme monetary policy for which Dutch pensions pay a huge price is therefore not yet in sight. On the contrary. I wonder when this destructive policy will become too much for VVDs and CDAs in this Chamber. When did you guys get really mad? When does "whatever-it-takes" become too much for you? Mr. Chairman. I've learned that you have to listen to your opponents carefully if you want to get your way in politics. You may disagree with their arguments, but even if you're convinced of your own right, you won't get it if you stick stubbornly to your own starting points. My group has therefore considered other ways of achieving our objective, without temporarily adjusting the rate of calculation. We have therefore tabled a second initiative proposal which is now before the Council of State. It proposes to extend the five-year recovery period for discounts to seven years. That's our plan B. This gives at least two years of rest to pensioners and pension fund members, for both young and old. It also gives time, which is necessary to agree on some adjustments to our pension system. I said it before: if it can't be done as it should be, then it has to be done as it can be. I am, of course, pleased that GroenLinks, following the example of 50PLUS, has come up with the same overall proposal. After the votes next week, of course, I would like to discuss with Mr Smeulders how we proceed on this point. Mr. Chairman. An additional complication is that the cabinet is now threatening a massive redistribution operation: a problem of EUR 60 to 100 billion as a result of the abolition of the average system. This is now being thrown over the fence with pension funds and has enormous consequences for pensioners, so there will be no indexing in the next five years. 50PLUS and the trade union movement demand full compensation, but the cabinet is in no way prepared to do so. The minister literally said: that is philosophically impossible. In other words, this redistribution will be extended to pensioners. I will, of course, leave that issue today for what it is, but you will encounter a shock wave of resistance if this miserable plan is maintained. I thought the Minister's choice of words was ridiculous, but do you know what I find philosophically impossible? A non-cost-covering contribution for workers, for which the elderly are responsible. It is 10 billion too low premiums, every year, for pensions. In order to fix this, either the premiums should be increased by 10 billion or the construction of the workforce should be reduced by 30%. Both alternatives do not consider 50PLUS feasible. The adjustment of the calculation rate is the only correct solution for the Netherlands. Then the premium is just cost-covering again. What I would like to point out today is, of course, that this bill is linked to the round table that 50PLUS is organising together with GroenLinks, the Labour Party and the SP, next Monday at 10 a.m. Come see that, I'd say! Minister Koolmees and the President of De Nederlandsche Bank, Klaas Knot, believe that the current risk-free interest rate should also remain if pensions are made less secure and become softer. That position looks like an incredible political twist to the detriment of pensioners and contributors. I would therefore like to remind colleagues and viewers of this forthcoming round table with the social partners and a number of pension experts, because it will be an interesting confrontation of views on Monday, we hope. The next day, we're going to vote on this initiative law. I would also like to say quite clearly and clearly that there will be another vote on my legislative proposal. It's on March 20th. On that day the voters vote on the composition of the Provincial States and thus on the composition of the Upper Chamber. Parties voting against the 50PLUS legislative proposal will be billed by many voters. You will not be given an explanation of your vote against, so I say here. The voters have the right, and fortunately also the right, to know whether they voted for or against the 50PLUS proposal before the elections on 20 March. The vote will therefore be taken by roll call next week. I'll make the request for that. Before the vote on Tuesday, Monday, I have already said that the round table, initiated by 50PLUS, on the calculation rate for softer claims, will be held. In addition to the debate today, therefore, you still have a chance to gain better insights. For today, I want to end with a political statement. It's about the people in the Netherlands who choose us to work for them. They see what's happening. The richest people are getting richer and richer. For multinationals, the tax burden is falling. For the common man the costs increase and there is little left net. AOW'ers with a small pension are getting worse. They are the only group that will be in the minus in January, according to the government figures. Over the last eight years, the burden burden in the Netherlands has increased by 4% to 40% by chance. That increase in charges has fallen more than proportionally with the common man and woman. You read or hear it every day: the elderly are standing behind in the queue, threatening pension discounts and indexing is becoming increasingly out of sight. Surely that cannot be right if we know that after the crisis the pension fund doubled from 700 to 1,400 billion and that the yields were on average 7%? This cannot be the case in the case of an economic development in which large companies have been bouncing their money against plinths and the government has been showing surpluses in the budget for some years now. Public debt is already less than 50%, with extremely low interest rates. The turn of the year is so recent. The cabinet presented nice purchasing power cards. There is more in the wallet, but it flies out even harder, and all the more so with pensioners. Do you understand that there is no support for climate policy at all? From society come desperate noises. People can't handle all the cost increases anymore. A climate policy with a tsunami of charges increases cannot be achieved after more than 50 billion in cuts and tax increases in recent years. The scare is good, because all the small improvements are already taken away by the increase in municipal charges, care premiums, energy bills and rents. But what can we do about it, people wonder. The answer is simple: in the upcoming elections for the Provincial States, remove this cabinet from its majority. So vote 50PLUS and do not flee to parties that are a suit in terms of purchasing power for the citizen of the same sheet. Then we will see again whether that threat of draconian costs and burden increases can count on a majority in the First Chamber. The voting behaviour of the parties in the Lower House on this bill to prevent discounts is a first test. You can assume that millions of people will see and hear how each of you voted before the elections. 50PLUS has the following priorities: more purchasing power for the citizen, the AOW age down, the pension discounts off the table and the indexation on the table. That is the price we are asking for. Then we will guard as a goat on the oat chest that what is given with the right hand is not taken away with the left hand. We ask a government that stands alongside the citizen and not against the citizen, but we see no stretch, no flexibility and no outstretched hand. The coalition parties have joined forces with steel wire and you know what happens to steel that doesn't move: it breaks. Voices on the PVV or Forum for Democracy will not help either, because these two parties have been sidelined by CDA and VVD. For the sake of clarity, you can of course choose who you blame for that, I leave that in the middle, but the fact is that a vote at the PVV or Forum for Democracy strengthens the political position of GroenLinks in particular. 50PLUS can make a difference. 50PLUS wants to see confidence and optimism in society again. The commitment of 50PLUS is to restore confidence in a future that goes beyond the next few years. 50PLUS has made a reasonable proposal; we are a reasonable party. We expected an open attitude, at least with part of the coalition. We look at the people, young and old. We look at the 5 to 10 million participants for whom discounts on their pensions threaten. We are looking at the metal worker who has already been cut by 7%, definitely, and who can now again face a significant reduction. Then we are talking about 1.5 million participants in the two pension funds in the metal sector, where there are major final discounts at the end of this year. I am also thinking of these 1.5 million people for whom I have put in several solutions. We are also looking at the retired nurse or the retired fireman or policeman who could finally stop after a lifetime of hard work. Ordinary people who only see things become more expensive. Who can they expect help from? We can be clear about that. 50PLUS will always fight for them. We fight for workers and no longer workers, for young and old. I do not happen to know at all by chance that the CDA's First Parliamentary Group at the time advised the CDA's Lower Parliamentary Group to support or even co-sign our initiative. I told you before. Of course, I offered this to Mr Omtzigt, but this group did not want it. We have also discussed this in the first period. Unfortunately, it is no longer a secret that Prime Minister Rutte has come to the stalled negotiations on a new pension system at night to get the threatening discounts off the table. But because he didn't get his way, he took that offer off the table again and so the discounts are back on the table. If that had been any different, I might not have to stand here anymore. This Chamber will have to decide whether or not to accept the present legislative proposal. A vote against the 50PLUS bill is a vote for pension reductions. A vote for the 50PLUS bill is a vote against pension reductions. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank all those who have advised me and have supported this bill, especially those who are behind me from the 50PLUS party. I call Rob the Brouwer. I mention Erik Lutjens, who unfortunately could not be there at the last moment, Thomas van Kuijk and David van den Brink. I also mention my personal collaborator, Mrs Van Egmond. I thank them for their wisdom and commitment and, above all, for their patience with me. Not least, I would like to thank the House's Bureau for its legislation, without whose opinion this draft law would not have met all the requirements. I can't stress that enough. Nor can I fail to thank the other external advisers. They have urged me to submit this proposal and to continue to defend it to the bitter end against all criticism. Those were also people from various other large parties, also parties larger than 50PLUS. This good proposal has not been awarded 50PLUS. Finally, I should like to make one final point. This fruitless discussion to make only a very small and temporary correction on this point......................................................................................................................................................................................... If the coalition groups were able to step over their shadow here, we could do business quickly with each other. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-9.u4	Thank you. The Mission Time for Political Parties just came out of trade-K today. I am happy to give the floor to the Minister after I have established that there are no interruptions and that there are no questions to the initiator. I'd be happy to give the Minister the floor to respond. I will see, for example, whether he accepts Mr Van Rooijen's opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-9.u5	No, Mr. Chairman, but I'll tell you the end of it. Thank you, Mr President. Nearly eight months after the second term of the Chamber, we continued to deal with Mr Van Rooijen's own-initiative proposal today. Once again, I would like to thank Mr Van Rooijen and his support for the great work they have done. An initiative proposal requires a lot of work; I know that as a former chamber member. It also has a noble purpose, namely: how do we avoid reductions in pensions? In the first term, during the plenary session on 27 March 2018, I have already explained in detail why I cannot support this initiative law. The essence of this is as follows. The bill introduces a button to determine the conditions under which the calculation rate should be increased and to what extent. Politics then determines to what extent pension assets are shifted between generations. In other words, it opens the door to subjective changes in the calculation rate for pension funds, leading the financial interests of subgroups within the system. The cabinet is not in favour of this direction. The calculation rate becomes a game of conflicting interests within the system, which further undermines confidence in the system. I argued that last year, and I should like to say for sure that I still feel the same about this a little later. The second-term contribution of your Chamber also showed that a large majority of the Chamber cannot support this proposal. In addition, two more motions have been tabled, which I would like to respond to. The first motion is from former member Grashoff van GroenLinks. He proposed that the FK should be further evaluated by experts and social partners, and that options should be provided for possible adjustments to the FK. In response to this, I would like to say that this motion was actually carried out before it was tabled, because in March 2018 I sent a comprehensive evaluation of the ftk to the Chamber. This evaluation was carried out by an independent agency, with input from several scientists. I don't think it makes much sense to re-evaluate the ftk now that it just happened. That's why I advise against this motion. Mr Van Kent has proposed to have an examination of the possible changes in the rate of calculation and to assess the consequences of these changes. The Pension Act states that risk-free interest is the starting point in assessing the liabilities in the Dutch pension system. And there is no reliable market interest rate for long-term liabilities. Then it's about the UFR, the Ultimate Forward Rate. That is why the UFR is being used. It is adopted every five years by DNB, on the basis of an opinion of an independent committee, the Parameters Commission. From 1 January 2020, the UFR and other relevant parameters should be re-established. This committee, which includes independent scientists, will be set up in the very near future. It will deliver an opinion before the summer. In doing so, the Committee will also advise on the calculation rate for liabilities with a longer duration. In that context, I also advise against this motion. Mr President, that is it, as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-9.u6	Mr. Van Kent?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-9.u7	The Minister explains how the law is now in place, and how he is implementing the law as it is now. But that's not what the motion is asking for. The motion calls for alternatives to be explored and the consequences of the introduction of these alternatives, in addition to the rate of calculation as we know them today, and for them to be shared with the Chamber. That is a completely different request.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-9.u8	That's right. Of course, this discussion is not new. I believe that there was a hearing in your Chamber in the Social Affairs Committee a few months ago, including the debate on the interest rate, where scientists were invited and experts were consulted. This is also in line with the reasoning I explained last year in March in the first term. The starting point is risk-free interest rates. And again, for the longer term, i.e. for 20 years and beyond, there is no market interest rate. That is why we depend on the opinions of an independent committee, such as the Parameters Committee. But given this discussion and given the debate that has been held many times in Parliament with those scientists, I do not think it would be very useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-9.u9	The Minister insists on explaining the current situation, but the motion does not ask for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-9.u10	I have replied that there has been a lot of debate on this. Your Chamber has also recently held a hearing in which this question has also been raised. I see no reason to deviate from the current system. I would merely point out that a Commission Parameters will soon be set up to advise on the parameters of the system. I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-9.u11	Then I have to say that the Minister continues to persevere in the rate of calculation as we know it now, which leads directly to the reduction of pensions, and that the Minister is not prepared to look at other avenues that might also lead to Rome. That disappoints me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-9.u12	Mr Van Kent cannot be surprised, because after the summer I also sent a copy to the Chamber of Parliament of a letter from Mr Knot, the President of De Nederlandsche Bank, in response to a question from Mr Van Rooijen. It also contained my personal view, or rather the view of the cabinet. I also explained these views of the cabinet in detail in March last year when I examined the initiative proposal in the first place. So I stand by my judgment on this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-9.u13	I have two questions. I would like to start with this question. Mr Van Rooijen mentioned it earlier: in the negotiations on the pension contract, the Prime Minister proposed that the discounts be withdrawn. The cabinet therefore sees opportunities for this. I would like to leave this room in a hurry. Maybe this minister can just say so, because then the problem will be solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-9.u14	We discussed this issue at length in the debate on the collapse of the pension negotiations. At that time, Mr Van Rooijen, as spokesman for the 50PLUS Group, also put this question to me and to the Prime Minister. At that time, we explained that it was part of the overall package of reform of the system, which would move away from nominal collateral, which is now the starting point of the financial review framework, and which would also include buffer requirements and limits for when abbreviated. In the context of that broader review, it was indeed part of the package that discounts on pension funds with coverage rates between 100% and 104.2%, the minimum required equity, would not take place. But that was in the broader discussion about the overall system. I have already argued that, if you take one element out of that, the whole framework will be overturned. Then it becomes unbalanced, even between generations. That is why I am not in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-9.u15	The conclusion is: it could be, but you don't want to. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-9.u16	That's right. I find it unwise to keep one part of the financial review framework, because then you will have a direct discussion about the distribution of accounts between generations. We already have a problem with this in our pension system; there is already a problem of trust in our pension system, precisely on this point. It is not for nothing that my predecessor, Mrs Klijnsma, made a whole structure in the revision of the Ftk "I think that was in 2015. Under the 90% coverage rate there is a hard cut; from 110% coverage rate there is partial indexing. It's all connected. That's symmetrical. If you're gonna pull one piece out of that, you're gonna tear the whole structure around. So I don't think that's wise. Apart from that, I still think it is necessary for the whole system to be reformed. That is also the discussion we have had, and I think it was in December, but I honestly don't remember exactly when it was; it was weird weeks when we were talking about the collapse of the pension negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-9.u17	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-9.u18	Mrs Van Brenn had a second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-9.u19	Pensioners now know what the minister stands for. I did have a second question. We were very pleased with the motion by GroenLinks, because the trade union movement also asked whether the assessment of the financial review framework could take a broader view than the mandate given to the minister. The question is: would that still be possible? Or are you saying that that has already happened, that is limited and that was more than enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-9.u20	This follows on from Mr Van Kent's question. That's what I was talking about back then. During the introduction of the Nftk, the new ftk, an evaluation on that part of the legislative amendment was announced. I sent it to the Chamber last March. In the meantime, this has also been the subject of a debate. At the same time, in the previous period, 2014, we had given advice to the Parameters Committee and the UFR Committee. At that time, I also mentioned that the evaluation of the ftk is really about the legislative changes made by Mrs Klijnsma to the financial review framework. The UFR Committee and the Parameters Committee are set up once every five years to give an opinion on the accounting rules in the pension system. In response to Mr Van Kent's motion, I have just indicated that I will be presenting it shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-9.u21	Very good. So much for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-9.u22	Mr President, may I ask one more question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-9.u23	This is the fourth piece of your interruption. That's a long time. But let's go.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-9.u24	Thank you, Mr President. My question is whether next time the issues that social partners are asking for, such as broader exploration, will also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-9.u25	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, but I'm gonna need Mrs. Van Brenn to give me a hand. The starting point is that an independent committee of scientists advises on the calculation rules, the expected returns as well as the technical composition of the Ultimate Forward Rate. It's in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-9.u26	Very good. Thank you to the Minister for his presence today. Thank you to Mr Van Rooijen and his staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-9.u27	We are voting on Tuesday on the legislative initiative, I understand, jointly and severally. And we are voting on the two motions that go with that. I shall suspend until 6 p.m. clock and then we will have the Foreign Affairs Council. That's what we're going to vote on.
