ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the debate on the Ihbti monitor 2018 and the Nashville statement. I warmly welcome the Minister for Education, Culture and Science and the Minister for Justice and Security and I am the first to give the floor to Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. Tomorrow, May 17th, is the international day against homophobia, biphobia and transphobia, a day that symbolizes equality, no matter who you love. The Netherlands once took the lead in terms of Ihbti rights. We would be the most tolerant country in the world, but recently we hear that preachers and imams who preach gay hatred get a stage, the 4 mayor of an Ihbti organization in Amsterdam Nieuw-West was destroyed and the Netherlands has fallen to the twelfth place on the international ranking for lhbti-friendly countries. Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks stands for a country in which everyone can safely be themselves. Intolerance towards people with a different sexual preference or people who want to live in a different body than they were born in is appalling. That the Nashville Declaration was signed and embraced by thousands of people in our country is sad. According to that statement one should not be a transgender and marriage would not be for two people of equal sex. What that statement says is discriminatory and homophobic. It is right that there was a lot of fuss about it, because the statement was signed by people in public positions, by a member of the Chamber, by a school director and by university staff. Does the Minister of Emancipation want to speak firmly against everything in the Nashville Declaration? Mr. Chairman. Men who love men and women who love women feel relatively unsafe, concludes the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. They face violence because of their identity. With bisexual people, this is much worse. The position of transgender people in our country is completely poor, let alone the position of intersex individuals. They are virtually invisible in society because of the stigma and shame that arise from how we deal with this as a society. Of course, we see that this cabinet is working to combat discrimination and hatred against lhbtis. Nevertheless, the cabinet can do much more. We would have liked to see the police, the judiciary and the cabinet working to seize everything within the scope of improving Ihbti security. The COC and other representatives ask for firm measures, measures needed to improve safety. However, the Minister rejects these concrete measures. Why? Mr. Chairman. Due to the generic approach of this cabinet, too much anti-lhbti violence disappears from the picture, especially because victims lose confidence in its adequate fight against it. The Minister writes that the action plan will make a well-balanced contribution to the safety of IHBTIs. If that's the case, what can we charge him for? What concrete results does he expect? How many more returns and more convictions are we gonna see? I'd like a response. GroenLinks believes that a specific approach to combat lhbti violence is indeed necessary. For example, setting up specialist detectives for discrimination cases against lhbti individuals can increase reporting readiness, better solutions and better detection. Why don't we set up detectives like this? In his action plan, the Minister announces attention in police academies for lhbti individuals and discrimination, but what does that mean in concrete terms? The minister says he appreciates the Pink in Blue network, but why does he refuse to give the network a stronger position, both internally and externally, the police? The criminal justice chain should be more alert to the issue of discrimination in community crimes involving CODIS facts and discrimination should be a major indicator of alerting, tracking and prosecution. How's the Minister gonna take care of that? There must be a higher penalty requirement for hate crimes, such as anti-lhbti violence. My colleague Buitenweg is working on an initiative law on this issue. Above all, there is an adequate level of enforcement. How's the Minister gonna improve that? Finally, a few questions, Mr President. The SCP's lhbti monitor does not pay attention to the social position of intersex persons in the Netherlands. There is also no demand for transgender background and gender identity, leaving much knowledge underexplored. Can the SCP and the CBS also ask about transgender background and gender identity in the future? Can they also pay attention to the social position of intersex individuals and will there be further research into visibility? The results on the well-being of transgender young people are shocking. Assault and emotional neglect prevail. Can more research be done on these young people outside the monitor? My group is curious about the impact of the Green Left vote that calls for lhbti acceptance to be a mandatory part of teacher training. Finally, Mr President. Is the Minister prepared to take a serious look and investigate the criminalisation of discrimination against trans- and inter-sex individuals in criminal law? Then it becomes clear once and for all that we in the Netherlands stand for the freedom to love who you love and to be yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u3	Thank you, Mrs Özütok. I now give the floor to Mrs Bergkamp on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. These are exciting times. Where the Netherlands has always been a frontrunner, a forerunner, when it comes to the Ihbti rights, it seems that we have been taking a step back lately. Conservative forces are gaining ground and the Nashville Declaration is an example of this. I've got it right here. Every time I read the text, I shudder: sinful desires must be killed. Another quote from the Nashville Declaration: wanting to see and position consciously as persons with a homosexual or transgender identity. In other words, you must renounce your homosexuality, your orientation and your identity. Mr. Chairman. This statement has been signed by a colleague of mine, Mr Van der Staaij, who is also present here, professors of VU, a school director and a spiritual caretaker of Defence. This is about public functions. My question to the Minister is: where is the border for her? Mr. Chairman. It also gave rise to optimism that so many rainbow flags were fluttering and that so many people have distanced themselves from the explanation. 52,000 people signed the Declaration of Love. Mr. Chairman. I am holding my heart now that the Nashville initiativers have announced that there will be a special version for young people. I would like to ask: leave our young people alone. We see that there are many young people struggling with their mode, with their identity. They are often raised in an environment where there are no role models, sometimes come into a church where they don't have to themselves, and then there's a group of grown-up gentlemen who also say they have to give up and kill their feelings. I say to the initiators, leave our young people alone. I ask the Minister whether she wants to monitor this development properly and whether she will intervene when she sees that it affects the social safety and health of young people. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the European Conservative forces, for example Slovakia, Hungary and Romania, who have amended their constitution to establish that marriage can only exist between women and men, just now that there has been a ruling from the European Court protecting the position of rainbugs and ensuring that if someone marries an American in Belgium, they can also move to Romania and that those rights continue to apply. D66 calls for European legislation to be clarified on this, that if it says "partner," it can be about equal sex couples and that rights are recognised in other countries, even if children are involved. It is extremely important that the Coman judgment, the judgment of the European Court, be implemented in all Member States. I would therefore like to ask the directors whether they wish to do so. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to one of the most important issues, safety: being yourself, being able to walk hand in hand, physical safety and social security. We see in the SCP monitor that it actually seems to be taking off. Our question is whether the Minister would like to be included in the next monitor or whether that is because people simply do not dare to be visible themselves anymore. Does she also want to take the position of intersex people specifically in the monitor? I agree with Mr Özütok's questions on bisexuals. They don't look good in the monitor. I think it is very good that they should also be given specific attention. My question to the Minister is what she can do for them. About the action plan. There are a number of new things in it, but also a lot of repetition and a lot of local policy. In my view, the most important priority is that people report it and that it makes sense. We are therefore in favour of specialist detectives when it comes to discrimination in the broad sense, with the focus on Ihbti but also on anti-Semitism. We would like this cabinet to start with pilots. There are good experiences abroad. Let us do that, so that people think: it makes sense to report discrimination. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the Ihbti Action Plan. We can see it's still pretty common. It seems very good to us that when it comes to discrimination, standards are agreed and objectives are set, so that we can follow what is happening now with the whole of discrimination. Mr President, concluding. We have always been a precursor in the Netherlands when it comes to the Ihbti rights. It seems to me that it must be the ambition of this cabinet to remain so. If, for example, we look at the action plan, I hope that they will be able to add more to what is in it and that we will really try out a number of things so that everyone in the Netherlands can be visible themselves. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u5	Thank you, Mrs Bergkamp. I now give the floor to Mrs Van den Hul on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u6	Mr. Chairman. We thank the ministers for the first Safety Action Plan LGBTI 2019-2022, which they developed on the occasion of my and my colleague Sjoerdsma's motion. It is an action plan that we would like not to need, but unfortunately it is. Seven out of ten lhbti'ers are victims of violence, seven out of ten, and many lhbti'ers still do not feel safe and many young people still doubt whether they can openly be themselves, at school, on the street or at home. One in five students think you shouldn't say you're gay or gay at school. Mr. Chairman. One would hope that emancipation goes hand in hand with progress, yet sometimes the opposite seems to be the case. We see this worldwide, including in Brazil, Russia, Brunei and the US, where great steps are taken back when it comes to the rights of lhtbi and gender equality, but also closer to home, the acceptance of sexual and gender diversity is far from ready. The Nashville Declaration was a painful example of this recently: an extremely offensive, harmful and, as far as we are concerned, reprehensible document which has led to very great social unrest, not least because some of the signatories have already referred to it as fulfilling public functions. I therefore agree with my predecessor's question: where is the border? And I'm not even talking about the American homophobic preacher who recently wanted to visit the Netherlands or the concerns that are currently taking place around a speaker in the Blue Mosque. Mr. Chairman. We are particularly concerned about the vulnerable position of Ihbti young people, now and in the future. Yesterday I asked with my colleague Bergkamp for a study on conversion therapy. For every young man who is told that she or he may not be as she or he is, there is too much. Being a Lhbti'er isn't a disease, so you can't cure it. It's you. Being yourself is a human right that we must never torment in our rule of law. However, we are getting signals that such dangerous and harmful practices are also taking place in our country. Do the ministers share our concern and do they agree with us that investigations, including the SCP monitor, still have too little regard for the well-being of transgender and intersex individuals in particular? More is needed to ensure the safety of lhbti'ers, because everyone needs to be sure of themselves. This means, first and foremost, life without violence, but also without verbal aggression or harassment. This means that we have to follow two tracks: the path of an effective rule of law that works for everyone and tackles discrimination and hate crimes and the path of emancipation and acceptance. The criticism of the action plan by interest groups is not easy and I have to say that I share their concerns. Ministers write in their letter that there is no place in the rule of law for violence and discrimination on the basis of orientation, gender characteristics, gender identity or gender expression, but how do we explain that the number of sentences based on lhbti discrimination is far from proportional to the number of incidents? What opportunities does this cabinet see for improving that discriminatory aspect in our security chain and in our legal system to ensure that the number of convictions increases, starting with more reports leading to further prosecutions? Honestly, I get that a lot of victims hesitate to report when you see how often it doesn't come to a conviction. We know that Pink in Blue is effective and it is good that this action plan wants to further increase its awareness, but at the same time we are receiving reports that capacity is lagging behind, especially in view of the already high workload in the police. Can this cabinet guarantee that any lhbti can be sure that they or he can contact Pink in Blue when making a report or declaration? Does this cabinet share our view that the ultimate goal should be that lhbti'ers should feel heard and understood by all agents? Ministers indicate that diverse craftsmanship is an integral part of primary police education. Can the Minister indicate to what extent this also affects discrimination and hate crimes? I would like to see, as the curriculum is updated, more explicitly include hate crimes and lhbti discrimination. The minister wrote in his letter last Monday that he doesn't see anything in a hatecrime unit with specialized detectives. There is no need for any particular investigative expertise, the Minister says, but a few more sentences I really read that criminal prosecution of discrimination can be complex. If this is not the right reason to focus on specialised expertise, I ask the Minister. Mr. Chairman. As I said, emancipation and acceptance are equally important in the approach and, above all, the prevention of violence. That is why I look forward to the implementation of my recently adopted motion on the inclusion of sexual diversity in university and first-degree teacher education, as well as that of my earlier motion on sexual education, resilience and diversity at school. For although the key objectives are clear, we still hear from too many students that there is hardly any attention to this important issue. And here too: young learn is done old. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u7	Mr Jasper van Dijk has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u8	The Nashville Declaration is reprehensible, and I am deeply distancing myself from it. I actually think that a lot of colleagues are doing that, and Mrs van den Hul has just done that. Even the Cabinet has already done it. But question 7 of Mrs Van Den Hul's written questions of January did raise a question. That question is: What do you think of the fact that members of the States-General, who have sworn faithfully to the Constitution, have also signed the declaration? What is the underlying idea of this question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u9	I do not have this question very clearly on the retina, but I can imagine that the underlying reason for this question is that we do see a tension between the Nashville Declaration and our Article 1 of the Constitution. That article says very clearly that everyone in complete freedom has the right to be themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u10	I fully agree with you; there is certainly a field of tension. This, of course, refers to Mr Van der Staaij. He's gonna be talking later, and I expect he's gonna get a lot of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u11	It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u12	Who knows what the chairman's gonna say in there? The point is that you might conclude from this question that you find it very undesirable for a Member of Parliament to sign Nashville Declaration. I withdraw that statement and so do you, but I cannot forbid fellow chamber members to sign it. I believe that we should have the debate with those who support this objectionable statement...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u13	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u14	... instead of banning them from expressing such a thing. Do you share the view that the democratic debate is the way to deal with such statements?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u15	Of course, I fully share that view. That is why, together with a number of colleagues present in the Chamber today, I was also present last Tuesday at the presentation of a petition expressing support for this Nashville statement. We could have stayed away and said: we think it is a reprehensible statement that unnecessarily hurts a lot of people and that goes against the principles of equality, so we do not accept that petition. We did not do that; we stood there. In fact, hand in hand, shoulder to shoulder we stood there to start the conversation and to listen to each other. I think that is very important, and I hope that we can do it together in this debate today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u16	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Hul. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP. I think you are the chosen one for interruptions today, Mr Van der Staaij. That's what I'm guessing. That is why I would like to give Mr Van der Staaij the opportunity to make his contribution first, and then to give everyone who needs it the opportunity to interrupt. I call Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That the Nashville Declaration made a lot of difference, I understand. It's about something very personal. But I have often wondered over the past few months: why was this fuss so heavy? The violent storm that started hit me, but it also got me thinking. It could actually have been said: nothing new under the sun, because the statement contains well-known, classical-Christian notions. I call marriage a lifelong union between husband and wife, sexuality as a gift in the bed of marriage. Those are views that have been widely shared in our country for centuries and are still being interpreted by the SGP. Then why the heaviness of the reactions? Was it because the statement in the media was immediately called an "antihomopamphlet"? Indeed, that designation did not contribute to a benevolent reading. Granted, maybe I read myself mainly through pink glasses. It struck me precisely that in the Dutch epistle, unusually frank guilt is confessed about how churches failed to meet people with a homosexual orientation or people struggling with their husbands or wives. It's a good thing this is being said, I thought, and it's important that this gets a follow-up. Why so much fuss? Was it because the words are very American massive? Was it because the text was not clear enough here and there, so that the impression can be given, for example, that a homosexual orientation can be cured with a good approach? Was it because my alleged signature under this document inadvertently gave the piece a political charge? I am sure it has all played out, but rather than speculating on this, I have put the question to the people I invited to have a cup of coffee following the Nashville Declaration. Men and women, girls and boys of flesh and blood said, "This is about me." I have learned a lot from these conversations, for example that the people we are talking about are also different. It's not all cuckoo one singing. Some felt deeply hurt because they felt rejected. Others agreed with that statement and felt based on their own way of life. Those meetings were also valuable for another reason. I have learned that real self-acceptance, being there as you are, is a huge task for many, that the monster of self-hatred is constantly lurking, how threatening it is to say that there are firm voices from outside that you cannot be there, and that the layer of social acceptance is sometimes flimsy and the feeling of insecurity is great. In short, why so much fuss? Because it's all so fragile. For me, that underlines once again and all the more that in such very personal matters it is very much necessary for everyone to always choose our words carefully. That's what I stand for. I'll add this to that. In the conversations I had, I for my part put in that this conversation for me is also about being who you are, namely as a Christian. As a Christian, I see every fellow human being without exception as my neighbor, someone I want to be there for. That is why, of course, I will never accept that "gay" is used as a swear word, that people are harassed, let alone that violence is used. At the same time, as a Christian, I want to follow, personally and politically, the path that our Creator in His word tells us, even in the somewhat relentless field of marriage and sexuality, even if that goes against the spirit of the time. I also stand for that in the realization that we are all going our way with falling and rising, and we must all have it from God's grace. Why so much fuss? Also because there is less and less understanding of that message and less recognition of that message. This also gives vulnerability: the feeling that there is less room for a deeply rooted belief. Madam President, I'm finishing up. Declarations, debates; it's all part of it, but let's not forget in our society to have good conversations about who we are, to remain curious about what drives and concerns the other. My experience is that such a conversation reduces the distance between people, even if views do not change in substance. Even when thick wood planks are cut, there are probably boards between which you can lay over a gorge. For those good conversations, I would very much like to continue to make myself strong. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u18	I told you, I find that Nashville statement objectionable. But it is Mr Van der Staaij's right to support that statement. I think it is something else when a school director does that, because he has an exemplary role towards students, but I will say something about that later. What struck me was that Mr Van der Staaij said at the beginning of this year: "I am not going to be complicated about it now, just now that there is swell. Normally I would say: I see these kind of theological explanations more as something for predecessors and theologians." Is Mr Van der Staaij behind this Nashville statement or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u19	Mr Van Dijk asks the question "What's the matter with you? You're gonna be complicated about it." I meant to say the following. I didn't get the question "Would you sign that statement?', after which I said yes. There had already been a lot of discussion. In my e-mail a year earlier about whether it was a good idea to have that statement translated into Dutch, I responded positively, so as to "yes, it seems to me an interesting idea to do so." I said at that time that I agree with the spirit of that statement. I repeated that in January. I have just explained in my text what I mean by that. I myself explained in detail in the Chamber why we voted against the gay marriage bill in those same biblical notions. Yeah, I feel like I'm related to that, and, yeah, that's what I'm standing for. Does that mean I support every phrase? No. I have also seen that there were certain passages that raised uncertainty, for example the question of whether you can come out with your feelings. There must be no ambiguity about that. That is what you have to say: yes, that is what you can do, and that is what you must do, above all, in terms of understanding, acceptance and support. That is one important point where there has been a misunderstanding. Or take that healing issue. There was a misunderstanding about that, too. This was also recognised by the initiators of that statement and further clarified in the press release.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u20	Mr Van der Staaij rightly said that there has been a great deal of fuss about this statement. For me, it's the question why that statement suddenly needed to be made. You rightly said that we have known for a long time that the SGP has this opinion. So why suddenly sign a statement? Certainly when you said 'I actually thought it was something for theologians', I thought: well, that would be a way out for Mr Van der Staaij to say 'I'm not going to sign, I'm going to leave this statement to the church, so to speak'. Then people don't have to feel hurt by you because of the views expressed in the statement. Because then you wouldn't have signed that statement. Wouldn't that have been wiser?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u21	I indicated that the initiators said immediately in their press release: the list of signatories was drawn up and published in a careless manner; it should not have happened that there were people on it who had not explicitly authorised it. That's why they then waived publishing a list of names. That is what they themselves said. So that also applies to me. Why didn't I say "my signature was wrongly underneath it, I don't want anything to do with it"? I thought that was a cowardly thing, and I still think that is a cowardly thing, because I stand for what I said then and put forward here in the Chamber. When people say "what a terrible thing that people think marriage is a man and a woman," my reaction is: no, those are just opinions that the SGP also brings forward and I subscribe to. I don't want to run away from that by saying "no, it's all a mistake and I have nothing to do with it." I thought it was too cheap, and I still think it is. But I'm doing my best to take away some of the... some of the... some of the... some of the... some of the... some of the... some of the... some of the... some of I would also say: don't make that statement too important. I mean, the fuss has made it even more important. It was just a piece in the Reformatorisch Dagblad of a number of predecessors, but the fuss has made it bigger and bigger.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u22	This last remark leads me to a frowned eyebrow or two. Did all this have to get so much fuss? I would like to invite Mr Van der Staaij once again to talk to people who are involved in this to hear why this has caused so much fuss. This has touched people to the depths of their souls, because it denies their existence. That's why there was so much fuss. I still do not understand why Mr Van der Staaij signed this declaration after answering my predecessor's very legitimate questions, nor why it was necessary to transport and translate this American declaration to the Netherlands. I would like to hear a further explanation of that. But most of all, I want to talk about the young people. I was talking about it in my speech too. No less than one in five students think you better not say you're gay or gay when you're in high school. I would like to ask Mr Van der Staaij whether he can imagine that reading such an explanation for these young people means an additional threshold to be met by who they really are.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u23	Anyone who knows this carefully will be able to say: it is not a threshold to come out in this way. In fact, it has been said in a press release that the recognition or pronunciation of homosexuality is not something that should be understood as sin or as something you should not do. In fact, it is also said in the postscript of the Dutch version: it is very good that these people also have a full place in the Christian church. I think I know that circle very well. I belong to it myself. I'm from there myself. That is why I saw this Dutch explanatory statement very clearly as well. I have also heard from young people that they have experienced this as support in this way, but that is different. Others don't. Others have experienced that as hurtful. Then I say to Mrs van den Hul: on that I think we can find each other, including in those talks, by saying: no, it is not meant to say that you should not be who you are, or that you should keep your feelings to yourself and that you should not come out with them. Once again, I say this in response to a few points of substance which she raises. Why did all this have to come to the Netherlands? Why did you have to sign that? I have indicated that it was an initiative of a number of predecessors, who also differed in the churches on this issue, to put forward such an international statement as a substance for a previous conference. It's a very theological document. I have indicated that my signature has fallen under because of a communication failure and that that has not been my intention. I then wanted to bring the debate back to its content and I did not want to dwell solely on the question of'signing or not'. I would almost say: I do not know what more I can do to make that clear at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u24	In my opinion, Mr Bergkamp has just quoted a number of passages in her speech which, as far as I am concerned, clearly underline why I understand very well that there are young people who are going to think three more times before they dare to stand up for who they are. I would like to go through that point of 'healing', because Mr Van der Staaij is getting over that very easily now, but that is, of course, a logical conclusion of the quote that Mrs Bergkamp just read. We have recently seen extensive reports in the media showing that it is also quite scary easy to access this so-called conversion therapy in the Netherlands. I would like to ask Mr van der Staaij whether he agrees with us that these are very worrying images and that this can have very damaging consequences for a whole lifetime.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u25	On the point of healing, the initiators also say in their explanatory statement: "Some have read the document as if a homosexual orientation can be "healed" with the right approach. That was and is not our intention." So that is clearly a distance from it. I am also completely unaware of the fact that it is being discussed and thought about in this way. Practice of "this can be cured for a while" I never met. So let us not raise any problems that are not here as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u26	First of all, I can really confirm to Mr van der Staaij that such practices really do occur. When I was the editor-in-chief of the Gaykrant, even one of our editors responded to such an invitation to see how that happened. But that's not what my question is about. I listened back to the radio broadcast with Tijs van den Brink in which you said it was not a deliberate action, that it was an unintentional signature, that there were misunderstandings about it and that you mainly regretted the political charge it received. The fact that you are not running away from it, even today, is truly worth a compliment. I think it's very brave that you're standing here. But there are a lot of people who feel immensely hurt by what happened. Some are sitting here in the public gallery, and many more are watching at home. Would Mr Van der Staaij say directly to those people how he looks back on that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u27	I've spoken to those people myself, and I've answered endless e-mails about this. I think that is part of our task, so that is nothing special. It's just part of my job that when something's loosed, you also say to those people: it's absolutely not my intention to hurt people in their personal feelings, and I'll do my best to express everything here and take away everything that can contribute to that unnecessary hurt. So once again, in my speech I also mentioned this: I am very sorry if people are hurt by this. That's how I started the conversation. At the same time, I said that I do not think it should go so far as to say, for example, that I do not think you should be against a gay marriage, because otherwise I am terribly hurt. It is also the question that something can belong to another person's identity, and that you say: it is my honest and sincere views, which I also stand for. We should not use this way of hurting ourselves, which we must take seriously, and which we must avoid, to silence people who are expressing opinions on this which I believe should be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u28	I would like to make a few brief observations on what Mr Van der Staaij has to say. He's been messed up a bit; he didn't mean to put his name underneath it. He also indicates that a number of passages do not add up, in terms of interpretation, so some people don't understand. I don't think it's a clear story. So I'd like to go into the depths before we move on to practice. The big problem is that in the United States, for example, where the statement comes from, it is said: you cannot be and you cannot do it. It is now the case in the Netherlands: you can be it. What a win. But does Mr Van der Staaij agree with me that you can also live as a homosexual and that as a transgender you can also say that you are transgender?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u29	When it comes to whether or not you can come forward and whether or not you can come out with it, I agree. No one has to hide who he is here. If it means that you are also in favour of it and that according to your ethical beliefs you do not find it objectionable if people also enter into a sexual relationship, then I do believe on the basis of the Bible that that is not the way God is pointing. That is right; that is also the view we have always expressed. And I'm sticking with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u30	So that's the crux. We can talk here about pastoral care and how sorry we are when people are hurt, and we can apologize for the fact that it has caused so much commotion. But this is the essence. The message of the SGP, by Mr Van der Staaij, is: you cannot live and act according to who you are, you cannot express your sexuality, your identity. That's exactly what's so hurtful and so damaging to young people. 'Cause you're basically saying you can't be who you are. The message is, you can't live according to your sexuality. I'm gonna change the frame. Mr Van der Staaij may be a Christian. We're gonna stand around him, we're gonna talk to him, and he can't be called names. But we must not see him as a Christian, and he must not live as a Christian. Then Mr Van der Staaij would also say to me: I cannot do that at all. That is the message that Mr Van der Staaij gives to young people, to people. It's a message that can't be done at all, that's damaging. That, I believe, is at the heart of the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u31	I personally do not find that offensive and damaging. I can understand that it is a difficult message, especially in our time and given the way in which sexuality is thought of. But from the Christian point of view, I am familiar with an approach in which sexuality is not your deepest identity, in which your deepest identity is your relationship with God. It also asks people who are heterosexually married or who are heterosexually single, that they also do not simply fulfill their sexual needs. So also in Christian life it has been a familiarity for centuries that it is indeed not good to realize those sexual tendencies or desires and desires that you may have. And no, that's not an easy message, that's not a nice message, but I reject the approach that would be damaging or hurtful. I disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u32	The suicide rates among young people struggling with their lhbti-ship are four times higher. For young people with a Christian background, this percentage is even higher. Why is that? The message that is given is that you are not accepted in your being and in your life and you get the prospect that you actually have to shed your sins. My question to Mr Van der Staaij is as follows. You may believe or you may not believe, but why don't you just leave the Ihbti youths or people alone? You don't have to marry a gay man yourself, I'm just saying. You don't have to have a rainbow family of your own. But leave those other people alone, just as other people leave you alone. You may read in your Bible, you may pray for the food and you may name it all, but leave those people alone for once.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u33	What I do is also express my opinion in the public domain about opinions on sexuality. That opinion is not, like the one of D66 and many other parties, that each may do what is right in his own eyes. That is a certain vision that indeed has a very strong spirit of time, but I have a different view, as I have put it. I also disagree with and do not think it is fair to link this approach one-on-one with suicide rates. Yes, I know that a lot of young people and elderly people, including Ihbti, have to do with high suicide rates. But when you look at those tests, you can see that it also reveals loneliness, that there is sexual abuse, that there is drug use. So yes, understanding, acceptance and support are always important, but to link this one-on-one to suicide rates is really too easy. Then all single people in Christian circles would also have a high suicide rate. That's not the point. I take the message "it's a fragile subject and they're vulnerable people; make sure that you understand, accept, support', but not the message "bring in your whole view, otherwise people will get hurt and what's not worse'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u34	Article 1 of our Constitution makes it clear that no discrimination on grounds of religion, belief, political orientation, race, gender or on any ground is allowed. Article 10 of the Nashville Declaration states: "We confirm that it is sinful to approve homosexual uncleanness or transgenderism." I know Mr Van der Staaij as a man of great importance to the rule of law. How could he have missed this article in that statement? And he has promised allegiance to the Constitution here as a representative of the people. How many times have you done that, Mr. Van der Staaij? Four, five, six times? I don't know how long you've been here. So I can't rhyme those two. You are trying to get rid of it easily by saying that there is a difference of interpretation, but Article 10 is clear!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u35	Indeed, Article 1 of the Constitution says that all those who are in the Netherlands are treated equally. It is the principle of anti-discrimination. And yes, it is true that through my oath to the Constitution, I have said that I will not advocate anything that contradicts that. If I disagree with Constitutional Articles, I will argue that they should be amended. That's okay, too. This is also part of the freedom of expression that we have in our country. I do not think there is any conflict with Article 1. In the past, both the Supreme Court and the European Court of Human Rights have dealt with cases in court, which cannot be deduced from the principle of equality that there must necessarily be something like a gay marriage. This really is a question of theological vision, which I do not think is contrary to Article 1 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u36	There's no doubt about that. I welcome and welcome the fact that the prosecution is investigating this statement. It is very clear that you are excluding a certain group after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u37	That's more of a conclusion than a question. But do you know what you actually do when you finally say "send the criminal on, because people can't find this"? Then you say to everyone: go underground with your views and make sure you only bring out politically correct things, because then it's good. I think that is a much better way forward, and so I am standing here today in order to express honestly the views that I have expressed earlier on behalf of the SGP, views that also exist in part of our society and that have been expressed in other countries. Let us openly cross swords on this and not send the criminal justice to it. I think that's a weakness offer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u38	I hear Mr Van der Staaij say a number of times: that is your vision and I have my vision. I would like to inform Mr van der Staaij that we are talking about equal rights in this country. That's not a vision. It is about freedom of the individual, that everyone has the right to organise his or her life as he or she wishes. That is not a vision, it is fundamental rights. As we are defending Mr Van der Staaij's fundamental rights in order to find out what he thinks, we also expect to be defended here that other people can live their lives as they wish. The beauty of freedom of expression is that it is almost absolute, as far as I am concerned, but it does not exonerate you from resistance and contradiction. I think that Mr Van der Staaij is trying to get out of here very easily. I'm really having trouble with his speech. He says: yes, I have signed a statement; that was a misunderstanding; it may not have been quite the intention, but it has happened. That is an explanation. We have just heard it from colleagues, which has caused many people to be hurt, excluded and discriminated against. Then Mr Van der Staaij says: then I entered into the conversation with them and I started building bridges; how beautiful that is. Yeah, how did that rift get there? That's one. What I then find difficult in Mr Van der Staaij's speech is that he says he is very sorry that people are hurt. He just answered questions from Mrs Bergkamp: but I do not agree that they are hurt. But that's the thing! So what Mr Van der Staaij is doing is putting it completely outside of himself. He says: I have done something and that you have been touched by it or that there has been a fuss, I do not understand, but I have entered into the conversation and I recommend it to everyone. I am very, very sorry that it is being put down this way now. If you sign it, stand by it, defend it, and say, "This is just what I think." Mr. Chairman. My final comment. I wonder what Mr Van der Staaij thinks of my speech. Let me put that as a question. Look, a biblical view of marriage that denies or excludes homosexuality is by definition anti-gay. You can't surprise that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u39	I do not think it is an anti-gay statement at the moment when you make it quite clear in such a statement that people with a homosexual orientation may also know to have a full place in the Christian church, that it is precisely in this way that you encounter the tones that I have not always seen so clearly before. It is not a question of vision, but it is just about rights that people have when it comes to equal rights. I notice that when I entered the Chamber, the VVD Group was still completely divided as to whether we should have something like a gay marriage. Nowadays, if you're not applauding, you're about to be evicted. So these developments are going very sharply, very hard. I do advocate more space in that. I would almost say that if people agree with each other so widely, what are you really afraid of when there are people, and that is unfortunately a minority, as far as I am concerned, who say that they remain with the classical Christian views on this? We do feel obliged to put it in a good way in the pastoral sense and to go out with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u40	I am incredibly proud that both the VVD and all the other parties present here stand for the freedom and rights of everyone in the Netherlands. So if two men, two women or man and woman want to marry each other, we're right in front of that. I would like to invite Mr Van der Staaij to come over. He says he knows history so well. He says he sees such a development at the VVD. He says it went a lot faster and that there was a lot less diversity and that most people were very much for that. I invite him to come by. We'll help you. We'll tell you how this works. But this is 2019, it can't be that Mr Van der Staaij, as the political leader of a very relevant, substantial party, signs such a statement that we are having a debate here in the House of Representatives and that he says: boys, it was just theological; I don't mean it all so, I don't get that fuss, we're just with a few, let it go anyway? That is not possible if Mr Van der Staaij sees what this means in society. I really want to join Mrs Bergkamp's appeal. Where does his need come from to interfere with these people? Why doesn't he just leave them alone?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u41	If Mrs Yesilgöz thinks that I do not understand this fuss, then that is a pity, because then my text has not been clear enough. I have just said that I do understand this fuss, because I have come to realize myself, even more than before, however it affects people very personally. So I understand the fuss about that. That is precisely why I feel responsible for taking away anything that can cause unnecessary irritation or annoyance. At the same time, I think it is also my duty to express the views I represent fairly and openly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u42	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u43	Okay, Mr Van der Staaij says: you misunderstood me, I do regret the fuss. Would Mr Van der Staaij sign another declaration tomorrow?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u44	It's kind of a tough fight when it comes to the whole signing thing. I tried to explain that there was no signing ceremony during which I signed it. The only thing I have ever said in an e-mail is that it is a good idea to translate it into Dutch, because I can subscribe to its meaning. That's just what I said and what still stands for. But when it comes to whether such a statement should have a whole list of signatories, I have never been waiting for it and I am still not waiting for it. I would say: let such a statement just be part of a conversation between preachers and then also provide a good representation, an interpretation of it, also towards the Dutch public, a wider audience. We were also working on our own note about transgenders. Because of all the commotion we have kept it separate for a while, because now seems not the right time. In this way, we take our own responsibility. I do not tend, in the past and still not, to sign all kinds of statements from others. Above all, I want to choose my own words and keep my own story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u45	To be honest, this is making me very sad. I am not particularly happy about Mr Van der Staaij's reply either. Many questions have already been asked which I wholeheartedly agree with, but what I do want to make a point about is that Mr Van der Staaij says that this manifesto does not create a threshold for people to be open about their feelings, whether they are lhbti or what sex they have. This could even be supportive. But how is it possible that there is a manifesto that says that you are sinful when you stand up for who you are and when you openly stand up for who you want to be in the name of love? I am sorry, but I cannot believe that a person with common sense can support this and endorse it, whether Mr Van der Staaij has signed it or not. He says it's my opinion. But it doesn't say: this is the opinion of Mr. Van der Staaij and yours truly. No, it says: we confirm that the grace of God in Christ enables sinners to fight against a transgender self-understanding and deny this false self-understanding and, by His patience... et cetera, et cetera. It's written down as if God isn't love, but as if God is shutting people out. How does Mr Van der Staaij feel about the separation of children from their parents, because these parents feel obliged to support such a statement? And what does Mr Van der Staaij think about the fact that children who are indeed Ihbti, transgender et cetera, no longer have contact with their parents?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u46	To start with, I hate it when this is a split-up between parents and children or whatever. I hope that it is always possible to have a good conversation. My experience is right, after the commotion, that there has been intense talk in many places, about that notion that recognizing or pronouncing, for example, the homosexual orientation is not a sin and that there is room for expressing it. Of course, that fuss was very bad and has caused a lot of wounds, but I am always optimistic in character. So let's not make a point there. If there's a lot of fuss, it's also an opportunity, a chance to talk about what you really think. I have also seen many good discussions on this very subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u47	I realize it doesn't make much sense, but what chance is that to talk about it, if it's said beforehand: you can't be who you are, you can't come forward, you can't be it, but you can't do anything else with it, because then you're a sinner and you have to fight against it? How is that binding and how does it fit in the image that fortunately many people also think that God is love?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u48	That image that is God's love, I wholeheartedly agree with that, so I wouldn't like to see that as contrary to this argument. On the contrary. Just that God who is love has also shown ways where we people are happy, and has given us rules of living, for good. I also try to listen to that biblical message, not to bother people or to create obstacles, but to believe that we are doing well if we really want to follow that God of love in our lives.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u49	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u50	Mr. Chairman. Who could have thought 40, 50 years ago that we should have this debate in this Chamber today? The Netherlands was ideally a country where you can be yourself, the country leading the sexual revolution, where great celebrations were held in the RoXY and iT, where people from all over Europe came. I remember my first night in the iT. I loved that! Every weekend we celebrated our freedom, in our capital, as Gay Capital of Europe. We were proud of that and we remained proud; in the eighties when the gay monument was founded, in the nineties at the first Gay Pride and the Gay Games, and at the beginning of this century, at the conclusion of the first marriage between men of equal sex, in 2001. Yeah, that's what I say as a VVD guy. It is almost impossible to imagine that today or again it is still necessary to talk about freedom and security for IBTs. Worse still, the Minister of Justice and Security must be present at the debate, because 7 out of 10 people in their lives face physical or verbal violence because of their identity, purely because of who they are. That's unacceptable. In our country, everyone has the right to be who you want to be and to love who you want to love. Of course, it's very nice that things are getting better with the acceptance of lhbt'ers in our country. At the time of another terrible incident or such a ridiculous statement as that of Nashville being signed, many are in favour of the freedom of the lhbt community, but the fact is that two men in a city like Amsterdam still cannot go hand in hand without being harassed. The fact is that transgenders still experience a lot of opposition. A well-known diva from Amsterdam, Mayday, wrote on Facebook yesterday that her world of life is reduced every year by intimidation and swearing, and that is indigestible. Unfortunately, there are more examples. These are not fictional cases or abstract figures; these are people of flesh and blood, people like you and me, who are victims of hatred because of their identity. The representatives of the lhbt community in the public gallery once again make this very clear by wearing T-shirts with names of victims. Violence and intimidation about who you are, in fact, every day. Mr. Chairman. For a long time I have waited hopefully for the Safety LGBTI Action Plan. Now that it's there, to say the least, it doesn't satisfy me. Honestly, I just hate it. I expect the Minister to present an action plan with an own problem analysis, with an impact measurement of existing programmes and a proposal showing how things can be better and more effective, including concrete actions to do so. Maybe I missed them; I'd like to hear it from the minister. I see here in particular a collection of projects. That doesn't mean much to me, because I don't know what the effect is. I do not know what the coherence is, I do not know how they are judged, and I do not know what to call the ministers. Mr. Chairman. It is clear that I expect a great deal more from this cabinet on this issue. Otherwise, let me give you some concrete actions that are necessary as far as the VVD is concerned, such as the police. The VVD wants to see Pink in Blue structurally anchored in every police unit. We want to examine how more attention can be paid to discrimination in police education. We want agreements to be made with the VNG to address street harassment in entertainment areas following the example of Rotterdam and Amsterdam. And please, we live in 2019. The VVD wants a ban on homogeneity in Christian and Islamic-religious circles. I hope that the Minister will take all these points up, but I am also prepared to present his own action plan, his own note, if I do not get concrete commitments from the ministers here today. Many proposals have also been put forward by, for example, interest groups such as the COC. It is clear that the VVD is not happy with what is now going on. This could be a lot better. Finally, Mr President. In this way, I would like to thank Secretary of State Harbers, the cabinet that refused to allow hate preacher Steven Anderson access to our country. Greetings! Because there's no place in our country for hates like that. The VVD wants to see how we can prevent them from the Netherlands faster and more easily, preferably from all over Europe. We are also dealing with creeps who are already in the Netherlands. Take Bantvawala, who has been invited by De Blauwe Mosque in Amsterdam to come and speak. I don't want to stand in this room one by one and shout "shame" at every hate-monger who wants to spout his poison here. I want this to be dealt with in a structural manner. I want us to map out who's inviting these dangerous types to come and speak. I want to know how we can prevent hate-sowings, and I want to know what it does with the safety of the IBT community, as well as with women in the Jewish community - if such a dangerous man gets a stage again. Yesterday, the majority of the House did not wish to have a separate debate on this; I think that is a missed opportunity. I want the Minister to really take this up in an action plan and come back to the Chamber in no time. Mr. Chairman. I would very much like us to be as proud of our country as we were half a century ago when we were leading the way in accepting anyone. That's what I want to go back to. As long as lht'ers can no longer be in freedom and security themselves, I and the VVD will continue to defend their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u51	I hear Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius mention a number of points on which she considers the action plan to be inadequate. One of the points I do not hear from her concerns a plea that has already been made today by a number of colleagues, including myself, namely a plea to the specialist detectives. I would like to hear how Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius looks at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u52	I think that is a very important point, as well as the point raised by Mrs van den Hul in reply to the Minister's letter. It says that discrimination is actually very complex from criminal prosecution to conviction, but that it does not require specialism. I would have underlined that myself, because I found that confusing. I would also very much like to hear from the Minister how he sees it. I wonder if you can handle this with a specific team of detectives. In my view, this must be well anchored everywhere, from education to justice. Everywhere. I am very curious about the Minister's response, because I understand the direction of thought. I understand that very well. If that's gonna be the answer, I'd love to hear it. But that there really is a problem, that we have to deal with discrimination in this way, that it is very complex, that we all know stories, whether it is anti-Semitism, lht and you name it, that declarations are not recorded, that declarations are not followed and that incidents are not treated as discriminatory: I totally agree with that. So I am open to any solution, but I would like to know if this is the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u53	I would like to talk about this in more detail, but I would now like to challenge Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius to anticipate and reflect on that herself. We see that the number of reports of lhbt violence is disproportionate to the almost negligible number of convictions. How would Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius solve that herself? Then what suggestions does it make to promote the usefulness of reporting?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u54	It does, of course, start with increasing the willingness to report. You can't really do that until people see that something is done with it after that. That goes hand in hand. I think it is very important to structurally anchor the work of Pink in Blue in every unit. That is not the case now. That's what we hear from the field, from the cops. I believe that this is crucial. I see great added value in this: that this work is anchored. I would then like to have looked at how to bring discrimination to the attention of police education, in particular, in broad and focused attention to lhbt. I would also like to know from the Minister whether, for example, a reverse burden of proof could help here. It is very difficult to prove: this was discrimination, because that was the intention. Maybe we can reverse that burden of proof. For example, I have a lot of suggestions for things that I want sorted out and that I really want mapped out. But then what's the effect? If you set up a specific team of detectives in the police department, you'll be removing people from the existing capacity; I've heard that, too. Does that even add anything? Probably. Maybe not. I'm interested in what works, which is effective, and how we'll make sure that the perpetrator, if there's been a report, comes before the judge. That is what we want and that is simply not the case. I think we can agree on that. Three or four declarations are made a day, but we've just heard how few people are ultimately convicted, so it's a mega problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u55	I'd like to move on to the specialized detectives' point. It has always been the case with the police that a number of people acquire expertise, so that you can improve detection and detective work very specifically. This expertise will then be transferred to the rest of the team. That is how it has always worked, and that is how it could be done. So why are you really against the idea that special detectives should come here for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u56	This isn't about expertise, because there is. For example, he's with Pink in Blue. Those people are very expert. On the contrary, I want their expertise to be disseminated and embedded in each unit. This is about taking people away from regular police forces and saying, "These are specific detectives who are only gonna deal with this." That's how I heard it. I understand why this is being thought of, but I wonder if that adds anything and if that will achieve what we want to do with each other. I want everyone who makes a report to understand how this is done and who is opposite him, or at least understands that he has to involve someone else because he doesn't really understand what the report means. Now we hear far too often that people are being sent and that it is said: this was not discrimination; well, you have to be able to stand up to it; it is a swear word and everyone can get that thrown at his head, that has nothing to do with your orientation or your origin. That's where it goes wrong. So that expertise is there, but it is not anchored, not structural and not everywhere present. I'd like to take a swing at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u57	Thank you, Mrs Yeşilgöz. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen on behalf of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u58	Thank you, Mr President. During debates such as this, you only have to debate how we, as politicians, can improve the situation of people and drive emancipation in all its facets. Progress, as it should be in a civilized society. Unfortunately, we must conclude that we must defend our society against the decline, whether it is the freedom we women have to decide on what is happening in our belly, or about the freedom that lhbtis should have and should feel to be who they are: just, openly on the street, hand in hand, kissing, without shame, without thinking, without fear of disapproving reactions, without fear of much worse things, such as abuse. Openness must not be what you are, not after what a certain group says who you are, so not what the doctor says when he determines the sex at birth, and certainly not what religious institutions say who you should or should be. It is our responsibility, here in the House of Representatives, to ensure an inclusive society and to do everything in our power to achieve this. Lhbtis are not yet accepted at all, also COC Nederland says. The 2018 lhbti monitor of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau also shows that the situation of lhbti's still leaves much to be desired. One of the conclusions is that lhbtis still have more psychological and physical complaints against heterosexuals. They still feel unsafe, they have an unusual lifestyle and have problems in the workplace. Manifest hateful preachers and disapproval of these people will not help to reverse this for the better. The lhbti report shows that in particular one group is consistently lagging behind in all areas: transgenders. They often fall into a low income group, have more debts and less wealth. The most poignant thing is that bullying is twice as common. More emotional neglect is reported, lower self-esteem and more psychological problems. There is no area where transgenders aren't worse off. The Animal Party would like to hear how ministers want to catch up with these delays as quickly as possible. What measures are the ministers going to take? Then the Party for Animals means real measures; not weak bite, not empty words, but actions to enable emancipation, the full acceptance of lhbtis. It can't go on like this anymore! Do the ministers agree with me? Mr. Chairman. In the Safety LHBTI Action Plan, the Party for Animals, like the COC, is very disappointed. Sturdy measures are not in place. The cabinet is now coming up with an action plan full of preventive and largely existing measures, but perpetrators avoid their punishment for lack of evidence and the police do not send enough cases to the prosecution for the same reason. In police discrimination policy, the word "lhbti" does not even occur, not once! Even the UN calls on the Netherlands to tackle violence against Ihbtis more firmly and condemn the perpetrators. The Party for Animals is right behind the improvement points that the COC provides. Everyone has been able to read the COC fire letter, so I do not have to quote from that, but let it be clear: fighting violence against lhbtis must be a top priority in the 2019-2022 Safety Agenda, as in the previous security agenda and in police discrimination policy. I ask the ministers to accept all the points of improvement that the COC has to offer. Will the Ministers in their response discuss these points of improvement on a point-by-point basis and indicate whether and how they will turn them into policies? The Party for Animals is tired of it as well. Will the Ministers undertake to raise the rainbow flag next to the Dutch flag at least one day a year in the plenary of the House of Representatives? The flag should be raised tomorrow, on 17 May, because then it is International Day against Homophobia, Biphobia and Transphobia. Mr. Chairman. The Nashville Declaration. I really want to say as little as possible; too much attention has been paid to it. But if, among other things, a group leader of a unfortunately homophobic party in this Parliament supports such a deeply embarrassing manifesto, then something must be said about it. It's disgusting, intensely sad, and to be truly embarrassed. How can you believe that God shuts people out because of their love, love for another? What are the ministers going to do to protect Ihbtis from this kind of repulsive manifestation and from hatred? Above all, this society needs more love, much more love. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u59	Thank you, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. I now give the floor to Mrs Agema on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In view of the wide spread of the previous debate, my colleague Harm Bertema has been prevented from doing this debate and I will observe the honours. Mr. Chairman. We are holding a joint debate today on the Ihbti monitor 2018 and on the Nashville statement. First of all, I would like to say a few words about the monitor. We see that there is fortunately a lot going well in the Netherlands with regard to the lhbti. Unfortunately, a number of things are also going less well. I quote. "With regard to safety, we see that feelings of insecurity are higher among lbs. This applies to security feelings in general, but especially to specific locations such as nightlife and places where young people hang out." The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau does not specify exactly which groups of young people are involved. However, in a 2014 study, the same Social and Cultural Planning Agency writes "in particular Turkish and Moroccan students think negatively about homosexuality. The reactions to homosexuality in public are predominantly negative and a large part would not allow a homosexual to enter the circle of friends. Also, more than a third indicate having problems with a homosexual teacher or teacher." In a city like Rotterdam, 46% of young people have a non-Western background, and that is the fastest growing group. Do the Ministers also see this problem? Are they also concerned about the relationship between demographic developments and the views of certain groups in relation to the safety of Ibtis? What are the ministers doing to tackle this problem? If we really want to tackle this problem, we will first of all have to recognise that the influx of Islam that has been going on for decades, especially in the big cities, but more and more often in the province, is the most important cause of increasing violence against lhbtis and the growing fear of people not being able to enter public space. Mr. Chairman. That's too much for words. An emancipation struggle that was very successful will be nullified. I would like to say again loud and clear that the PVV has nothing, but nothing at all, with the content of the Nashville Declaration. At the same time, we think that a possible prosecution by the D.A. is going too far. Christians who reject homosexuality on the basis of their belief in life are not the Christians with whom I feel connected. But nowhere in those Christian communities is there any call for violence against Ihbtis. The statement is, as far as we are concerned, an insensitive, cold and distant statement, but it remains embedded in the Protestant-Christian tradition of reflection, conversation and dialogue. Moreover, we are reminded of what the exacts stand for. I would like to stress that a believer lhbti'er is free to leave his anti-community or to join a community where he or she finds a warm and loving welcome. That is possible and, fortunately, it is also possible to do so without social exclusion. Except in the circle of Jehovah's witnesses, and that's serious enough to think about it separately every time. For the suffering in that circle is very great. People who leave their church face no physical threat, intimidation and actual violence. The counter-reaction against the Nashville Declaration, also from the Protestant churches, was overwhelmingly large. You could also see this as a positive signal that we have come a long way in recent decades in this country where the acceptance of lhbti and gay marriage is concerned. It is an acceptance that is under attack at the same time, not from a relatively small group but from a large group. That's from Islam. Mr. Chairman. Here's our big annoyance. The fuss in the media and among politicians of D66, PvdA and GroenLinks around the Nashville Declaration was huge. But we generally miss that fuss when it comes to Islamic expressions that go against our views. This is apparently a lot more difficult and sensitive than criticism of Christianity. We clearly saw this when it became known that the objectionable hate preacher Steven Anderson wanted to come to the Netherlands. There has been rightly a united uproar in the media and among politicians and unprecedented consensus on the fact that this man should be denied access to our country. A call that was rightly followed up by the government. Right, because this preacher is right to call for Ihbtis to be killed. But what about all those Islamic hate preachers who are active in our country or who are brought in as guest speakers? Where was the fuss back then? Where's the fuss? Where was the call for expulsion or refusal of access? Where was the support for our proposals to tackle these hate preachers and these mosques? Yesterday, Tuesday, it was announced that De Blauwe Mosque in Amsterdam will present a stage next Friday to the Salafist preacher Umair Bantvawala, associated with the Cornelius Haga Lyceum and follower of the Haitham al-Haddad, a fanatical enemy of Jews and gays. To our great surprise, there were almost two parties here on Tuesday to join the invitation of the hate preacher in this debate. Now it's quiet. I have only heard Mrs Yeşilgöz very briefly about this. That's not a pretty sight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u61	Let me make a point of order. I think Mrs Agema had just gone outside when I made that point about the speaker in De Blauwe Moskee. We share those concerns. As far as we're concerned, hate, hate, whoever it is. Let's get back to the theme of hate. There has been an interesting debate in this Chamber this afternoon on the criminalisation of current criminal offences. Some of the participants took part. Some of it doesn't either. There, the Forum for Democracy has advocated the abolition of the articles of law which are now in particular about inciting hatred and discrimination against, for example, lhbtis, arguing that judges would already be very busy. I would very much like to hear from Mrs Agema how she would look at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u62	I was in another debate this morning, about foster care. But I am not the representative of the Forum for Democracy here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u63	I understand, but I'd like to hear it anyway. That amendment is coming and I am very curious, especially in the light of what Mrs Agema has just said about hatred and inciting hatred, whether she agrees with us that it is really important to make it legally possible to do so, precisely because we see that lhbtis are still not sure that they can be themselves everywhere and precisely because we see that there are many places in society where hatred is being called for. So does Mrs Agema agree with us that it is very important to ensure that this is done legally and to maintain that possibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u64	Again, I did not take part in that debate. I was in a debate about foster care. Again, I am not the spokesman for the Forum for Democracy here. So if they table a motion, I'll look into that motion, or the amendment. Then a colleague of mine will give an opinion on that. Let me say this: with us lies the border on inciting violence. But you must not provoke me to speak about a debate that I did not take part in and an amendment that I did not table. I look forward to the amendment and will then give an opinion on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u65	Then I'd like to rephrase my question, finally. Does Mrs Agema think it is important, like us, that inciting hatred and discrimination should continue to be punishable?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u66	Certainly, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u67	Thank you, Mrs Agema. You guys are a little slow walking to the interrupt microphone today. Mrs. Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u68	Sorry, Chairman. However, I would like to mention the other point. I get it. I'm at other debates sometimes. I understand the PVV joined us. For the debate, we are talking about hatred and preachers, I do like to hear a reaction from the PVV, otherwise in the second term, on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u69	Fine. Once again, I am not the spokesman for the Forum for Democracy and I have not tabled an amendment. I'll take a look at the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u70	I understood that another colleague of mine had the debate this morning and that the PVV was in favour of it. That is relevant to this debate. We're talking about hate preachers and punishment and stuff like that. So perhaps Mrs Agema can come back to it in the second term or the PVV has agreed to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u71	Fine, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u72	Thank you, Mrs Agema. I now give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u73	Mr. Chairman. "We deny that God meant marriage as a homosexual relationship." That's in Article 1 of the Nashville Declaration. Article 10 states that it is sinful to approve homosexual uncleanness. Article 12 states that the grace of God gives life-changing power and that this power enables a follower of Jesus to kill sinful desires. What is the government's opinion on this statement? Do you agree with me that this statement is reprehensible because homosexuality is rejected? I thought we put this kind of discrimination behind us a few decades ago. We fought the equality, and we'd like to keep it that way. Do you share the view that homosexuals in such a community have an incredibly difficult time, because their sexual preference is reduced to a sinful desire to be killed? I never understand the advocates of this kind of text. What are they getting into? Please let people choose their loved ones freely. Who could object to that? I thought God was like love, but apparently that doesn't apply to all love. The declaration was also signed by Dutch, by pastors, by the SGP, but also by schools, for example by a director of the Driestar College in Gouda. I think that is even more serious than a preacher or a politician, because these are children who are subject to compulsory education. How do you feel about the board of a school supporting a statement that rejects homosexuality? This driver has an exemplary function and is paid with public money. Do you think this is acceptable? I refer to the board of the Cornelius Haga Lyceum in Amsterdam, which is associated with antidemocratic education. As far as I am concerned, both administrations behave socially irresponsible, while the law requires them, at least those of higher education administrators, to behave socially responsibly. Unfortunately, this is not requested from secondary school administrators. Mr President, I do not hear myself very well from an animated conversation in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u74	It's good to listen to each other. That's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I couldn't agree more. Mr. Chairman. I ask the government to include the passage on social responsibility in the Higher Education Act in primary and secondary education. It is also known as the Law names and degrees in education. It concerns Article 1.3 (5). I'd like a response. I'm considering a motion. This is in line with my earlier motion of 14 March to be able to fire drivers. I tabled that motion in the debate on the Haga Lyceum. I'd like a response. How's that motion coming? It is precisely in order to combat lhbti discrimination that it is good to pay attention to this in education. Hence my motions to pay attention to sexual diversity in education, including in the MBO. Schools that do not comply must be sanctioned by the inspection. What's the progress on the implementation of that motion? Let's say the inspection finds that a school doesn't implement those core targets on sexual diversity. What's she doing with a school like that? Too often you get the impression that drivers get away with circumventing those rules. That is why we would like to see a reform of Article 23 of the Constitution, which allows schools to escape this kind of equality and sexual diversity rules. Everyone must feel safe and healthy in the Netherlands. Figures from the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau show that lhbti'ers feel less safe. Bisexuals show that more than one in four have mental problems and almost one in five have depression. These are alarming figures. What is the government doing about this? The legal protection of bisexuals, transgenders and intersex persons can also be improved. What about changing "homosexual or heterosexual orientation" into "sexual orientation" in the General Equal Treatment Act? That is why my motion for a resolution was adopted. Finally, the Safety LGBTI Action Plan. It is precisely at the point of so-called 'hatecrime' that we are lagging behind other countries. We must take a strong stand against discrimination, not just for the lbti group, but in broad terms. Everyone must be able to feel safe. That's why we've been pleading for more blue on the street for years. With extra police efforts, more attention will naturally be given to tackling discrimination. So not cutting back on the police, but investing. Finally, it was already a short while past, and I would like to comment on the reports about the arrival of the Salafist and radical preacher to De Blauwe Mosque, a man who is guilty of severe discrimination against women, gays and Jews. What means does the government have to prevent the spread of its equally reprehensible message?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u76	Thank you, Mr. Jasper van Dijk. I now give the floor to Mrs Geluk-Poortvliet on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u77	Mr. Chairman. This is the debate that you really would not like to have, and you can leave that 'actually' out. You wouldn't want to have it because this debate is about people who just want to be nice and good to other people, people who don't hurt a fly and in many cases take care of someone. Gays, lesbians and the Jewish community are all objectives of violence. Politics is the order of society, and that is why we need to have this debate, to try to combat or combat this disorder. Mr. Chairman. 92% of Dutch people believe that homosexual men and lesbian women should be able to live their lives as they wish. When it comes to positive views on homosexuality, the Netherlands is second in Europe. That is not an achievement of the government and that is not a result of government policy, but a result of developments in Dutch society itself. The 2018 LGBT monitor of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau shows that a number of things are going well and some things are not. The research shows that lb-persons experience less social cohesion in the neighbourhood, that they feel more often unsafe and that they have to deal more often with disrespectful behaviour and with all kinds of cyberbullying. At the same time, in the last five years, on average, the proportion of lesbians or homosexuals who have experienced violence has decreased. In 2017, there was no difference between lesbian, homosexual and heterosexual persons. It is striking, however, that a large part of the lhbti community experiences thresholds for making a notification or a declaration. As far as the CDA Group is concerned, there should be no such thresholds in a safe society. What action is the Minister taking is my question. The CDA Group supports the plea for a recognizable role of the Pink in Blue teams, also outwards. In this context, a compulsory learning line at the Police College is also useful. How does the Minister see that? The CDA Group is convinced that the confidence of the Ihbti community in the police can only be built up in personal contact. Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of this year there was a heated discussion about the Nashville Declaration. For the CDA Group, the Nashville Declaration mainly shows that the views on homosexuality are also in motion in Orthodox-protestant circles. The House of Representatives is not the place for a theological debate, but I want to say that every person must be able to decide for himself who he or she loves. As far as the CDA is concerned, no one should be excluded. Love is above all else. The Nashville Declaration goes against that in my view, in the eyes of the CDA. We can live together in freedom. For everyone there is a place of their own. There is room for differences and everyone gives life shape as he or she wants it to. I see that Mr Jasper van Dijk wants to ask a question. Shall I finish my speech first, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u78	Yeah, I'd like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u79	For the CDA there is no doubt that everyone in the Netherlands is equal. In the Netherlands you have the freedom to love whoever you want and to be visible to yourself. Freedom of speech must never be abused to glorify violence or to sow hatred. If you cross that line, it doesn't matter what faith you do it from. Emancipation requires dialogue and long life. That is what Kim Putters concluded in his Rainbow lecture for the province of South Holland. This dialogue can promote public authorities by supporting initiatives in society. The CDA Group is thinking of concrete examples I mentioned earlier, such as the work of the John Blankenstein Foundation in sport, the dialogue From the Castle in the Church, from the Dordts Churches, and the project Homo in the Class in Education. Mr. Chairman. The CDA represents a strong society where respect and solidarity are the norm, and community spirit is the most important value. For the diversity of that society, the rainbow remains a beautiful symbol.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u80	I see you're quiet about it, Mr. Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u81	Definitely; this was a nice plea. We had the debate earlier this year on the Haga Lyceum. At that time there was actually a Chamber-wide agreement that such a government, which deals with anti-democratic views and so on, should not really be there. We now have a school director who signed the Nashville Declaration rejecting homosexuality. Does the CDA find it acceptable that a school director, where children go, should have a compulsory education, so that the children at the school know "the board of my school doesn't approve of homosexuality"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u82	You've heard what I think of the Nashville Declaration. I do believe, however, that the parents choose a school which they consider to be appropriate to their views. I am absolutely opposed to hate being preached and sown anywhere. I also understand that the Minister for Education will look into how this can be addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u83	Parents have to choose their school, that's right...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u84	But I am absolutely opposed to the abolition of Article 23, as you have just said. That's what you asked, probably.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u85	No, I wasn't going to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u86	Oh.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u87	I was on a completely different track.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u88	Then you got an answer to a non-asked question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u89	Yeah, that's what I'm finding out. But now my question. Parents choose their school, that's right. But it's about those kids. Those kids often go to the school the parents choose. So we have to note that there are children going to a school whose board says 'we reject homosexuality'. Suppose one of the children is homosexual, does the CDA find it acceptable that a school board should have someone who openly rejects homosexuality?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u90	The CDA assumes the responsibility of the parents. Those who choose and know what's good for their children. That responsibility lies with the parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Geluk-Poortvliet. I now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gays, lesbians, bisexuals, transgenders and intersex subjects in our society don't always feel free to be themselves. This is also evident when we are debating the LGBT monitor 2018 today. When it comes to safety and safety experience, lhbtis are worse off, while the place where you live or work or where you go to school should be a safe place. When the Nashville Declaration came in the news at the beginning of this year, it made me sad. For many gays and Christians, the explanation felt like a door being slammed in your face just because of what I said before. The statement does not contribute to a sense of security and does not help to trigger the good conversation. Instead, the explanation fed polarization and misunderstanding. That hurts me. I stand here as a politician, not as a theologian, but I would like to speak as a member of the Christian community. The church hasn't always been a safe place for everyone. Gays have often felt locked up and haven't been given the space to start talking about what they feel and who they are. That is a painful observation. That's changing in a lot of places. Precisely churches and Christian schools are increasingly active in providing a safe place for everyone, whatever your mode. However, there is also a great diversity among Christians, even when it comes to understanding what being Christian and gay means for the choices you make in your personal life. Some people choose a relationship, others choose a celibate life. There must be freedom and openness to talk about it. That freedom to make choices in it, to find something for yourself, is essential. This also applies to the freedom of the people who signed the Nashville Declaration. And no, I didn't sign the statement myself. I don't think it's a shining example of starting an open conversation about homosexuality. But freedom of thought and of faith is a precious asset, and that is why I think we should say to each other that it is unacceptable that the signatories are threatened. Mr. Chairman. It is important that you can be yourself and that you can live your life in the way that suits you and your background. We don't want to dedicate to other people how they live. Then I also look at what happens in the sports canteens and at the street, where "gay" is still the most used swear word. The Christian Union chooses the freedom to be who you are, the freedom of thought and the freedom of faith. In it we give space to each other and space for the differences that exist. That also applies when someone makes choices where you can't imagine anything at all. It is one's own choice, as long as that choice is made in freedom and without coercion. People need to feel safe. I began with the observation that this safety and security experience in our country is insufficient. It is therefore a good thing that the Cabinet has come up with the Safety LGBTI Action Plan and that the government agreement is also firmly committed to tackling discrimination and promoting the sense of security of lhbti's people. The Human Rights College, I spoke to you yesterday, and called for the action plan to be linked to the general security and anti-discrimination policy and to ensure that the criminal justice chain is more alert to the discrimination aspect. Too often we see that this does not go well in the case of criminal and criminal charges. People do not always feel the freedom to press charges and people do not always feel taken seriously. Too often no request is made, so discrimination is not always registered. All forms of discrimination, i.e. discrimination linked to lhbti, but also discrimination based on one's skin colour or origin, should be a serious indication of alerting, tracking and prosecution by the police, prosecutors and the National Expertise Centre Discrimination. The punishment must also be appropriate. This is why, together with GroenLinks, the Christian Union has taken the initiative to punish hate crimes more severely. Crimes that have an impact on an entire group, such as violence against homosexuals, require a higher level of punishment. I would like to hear from the cabinet how it intends to give a strong follow-up to tackling discrimination and insecurity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u93	Mrs Bergkamp has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u94	Hopefully, I got there fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u95	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u96	Mrs Dik-Faber made a fine speech, just like Mrs Geluk-Poortvliet. I can also imagine you look at a Christian party differently from such a Nashville statement. So I also found it interesting to hear both speeches. Let me ask you about the police. A number of Members of Parliament have said: would it not be good if the police also had the specialization of discrimination in general? This includes anti-Semitism, but also Ihbti. We see that the D.A. is very strongly based on the police report. Discrimination is, of course, very complex. Is the Christian Union open to us starting with a pilot in which there will be those specialized detectives? There are also experiences with this abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u97	I understand this question very well. I can also imagine a pilot, because then we can see if that actually has the desired effect. I understand that when a report is made, when people report it, they are often not asked for. The background to discrimination is often unknown, when you actually want a flag to be put up immediately, such as "this is not just violence; this is based on discrimination', and that it goes along the entire chain of criminal law, so that appropriate punishment can also be given. If this helps to do that, I'd love to think about it. I honestly don't know, so maybe it's a good idea to figure that out with a pilot. That could be a good idea. I am also very interested in the Minister's response to this, but I am happy to think with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u98	Thanks for the positive response. The Minister has, of course, sent a letter about this in which he says more or less: I do not really want it, but the demonstration of discrimination is very complex. Yeah, that's why I think it's good we're gonna see what we can do. But I think that's where we'll find each other. Let's see if we can do something about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u99	Maybe the Minister does have an ear for a pilot that might still be possible; I am very curious to hear his reaction because then we can identify the advantages and disadvantages of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u100	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. Finally, Mr Krol, on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Almost every time equal rights of homosexuals are questioned, we see something beautiful happening. That's how I became active after statements by American gay hater Anita Bryant in 1977. And following the Nashville Declaration, Christians spoke out. They took it up for gays. The website Ikstanaastje.now went online. Such initiatives are an important support for lhbti'ers, simply homosexuals. Homophobia occurs in Christian faith communities, and perhaps even more so in Muslim faith communities; I refer to the plans of The Blue Mosque. But even within the Islamic community, more and more homo-imams, homo-friendly imams, dare to speak out. We saw that years ago, after the horrible statements of imam El-Moumni. And there was now a social fuss about the Nashville Declaration. We saw a huge demand for rainbow flags: churches, schools, municipalities and companies hoist that flag to show their support. The Nashville Declaration, like Mr Van der Staaij today, speaks of "gay marriage," but fortunately we do not know any gay marriage in the Netherlands. Instead, our civil marriage is open to all. And there was a lot ahead of that. I, too, was allowed to contribute to this. It all started in the municipality of Best, with the help of Mayor Hans de Widt. At the time, my fellow warrior, prosecutor Jan Wolter Wabeke, and I, as chief editor of the Gaykrant, spoke with representatives of the judiciary about a possible marriage for gay couples. We discovered that there was no law in the law that civil marriage would be confined to husband and wife. It was Mayor De Widt who first dared to stick his neck out. He was willing to approve a request for marriage between two men or two women. Eventually, Amsterdam got the scoop, with the help of various stakeholders. On 1 April 2001, the first four lesbian and gay couples married. I'll never forget that night. It was broadcasted by CNN and by hundreds of other news media internationally, worldwide. It wasn't just a scoop; it was a world premiere. And still many gay couples from abroad choose a honeymoon to the Netherlands, where it was all born. Madam President. I would like to see a national memento at the place where it all started, in Best. Does the Minister feel that way? Can we, as the Netherlands, not be absolutely proud of what I think is our most beautiful intangible export product? Madam President. I am opposed to Mr Van der Staaij in substance in this debate. Nevertheless, I would like to give him a heartfelt compliment. He stands up for his opinion and conducts the debate in this Chamber. I appreciate that. Nevertheless, I would like to beg him to reconsider the much-discussed turmoil he has caused. There's a huge difference between what he allows for feelings and actions. I hope he'll reconsider that. We, as representatives of the people, are co-legislators. If we regard our current laws here as being carved into marble, then we might as well quit. We are here to establish new boundaries with each other. We've agreed to do that when there's a majority. Fortunately, I can see that the Nashville Declaration cannot count on a majority. Civil marriage may be open to everyone, but we're not there yet. Unfortunately, we see that the acquired rights are under pressure, and also the acquired freedoms. In the lhbti monitor, it would appear that the violence has decreased. The researchers write: it may be that acceptance has increased, or that lesbian or homosexual persons may change their behaviour. Madam President, I can assure you that it is the last. Walking hand in hand isn't there anymore. The same monitor also concludes that homosexuals feel more unsafe than heterosexuals. Madam President. Finally, I would like to thank Mr Van der Staaij once again. For years I tried to move with the Gay Newspaper and with the COC schools, municipalities, churches and businesses to lift the rainbow flag as a sign of support on special days. It was only after a great deal of effort that we managed to do so at a handful of institutions, but after the signature of Mr Van der Staaij, the rainbow flags were suddenly no longer to be dragged on. He achieved much more with that one act than we did in years. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u102	Thank you, Mr. Krol. Then this brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm looking at the Minister of Justice to see if he can respond immediately, because that's... Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u103	Mr. Chairman. I would like to come back to the small-scale debate with Mrs Van den Hul. She asked me to delete 137d. That would be in an amendment. That is not in the amendment. That amendment concerns the transformation of 137d, as we want it to be. Then it's called for violence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u104	Okay, well, at least you corrected this point. You do not have to come back to that in the second term. I see the Minister of Education can answer directly. I now give the floor to the Minister for Education, Culture and Science.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u105	Thank you, Mr President. It is good that we are having this debate today, because a lot has been said outside this Chamber about the Nashville Declaration and the position of the Ihbti community. It is good that we have this debate here in the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I too voted on the Nashville Declaration because it takes a harsh and uncomfortable stance against homosexuals and transgenders. In the Netherlands, everyone can always and everywhere be visible themselves. That is the starting point of the cabinet. The Nashville Declaration is not in line with that. Its content runs counter to the core message of the cabinet and of the vast majority of church communities in the Netherlands, who seek the connection and dialogue to connect faith, sexual orientation and gender identity. A large number of spokesmen have already referred to this. For that reason, the cabinet has renounced the Nashville Declaration. Mr. Chairman. I told you, the cabinet thinks it's important that everyone can be themselves, without restrictions, and that you can express your identity. I would like to say here that identity is something other than a focus and something other than a disease that you can cure. Mr Van der Staaij has just said something about it, but I say it here because in one of the broadcasts following the Nashville Declaration, one of the signatories did speak about the possibilities of healing. I think it is important to say here that it is not about a focus, but about identity. There's no cure for that. As far as I am concerned, the lower limit is always respect for each other's identity, in all its facets, in his or her actions. Only when you are allowed to truly love the love of your life in your own community, you let each other in your value. That's also the essence of living together. If you don't, you're gonna sink somewhere. That's what I said in my Pink Ode at the Synod in the church in Dordrecht. I really liked the fact that the municipality of Dordrecht, together with a lot of church societies, organized a meeting in which many people could express their views. I was honored to speak there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u106	Just a little bit more about the homogeneous therapy. Yesterday I tabled two motions with Mrs van den Hul on this subject. One motion to conduct research, in-depth independent research to see if this occurs in the Netherlands and whether this is offered to young people. The second motion is about whether the cabinet, if it does, would like to come forward with a legislative proposal to prohibit the provision of this therapy to young people. I was rather disappointed yesterday, to be honest, that the cabinet was deceiving both motions. I also don't understand why you don't want to know if something like this happens in the Netherlands. I would ask the Minister to reconsider, from her responsibilities, looking at the motions, to discuss that. On Tuesday we are going to vote on it, and I am also curious whether she does not want to know whether these kinds of bad therapies are still being offered in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u107	The Cabinet always speaks with one mouth and we're going to see what your Chamber thinks of the motions next week. At least the Minister of VWS and I will be talking to the field, also in response to the request of youth doctors. We will talk to the COC and the Christian lhbti groups to hear what their experiences are and what picture they have. In this way we can also get a better picture of what is happening here. So that's what we're gonna do anyway. We are also waiting for the votes on the motions next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u108	I understand the Minister's response. In the general discussion we had yesterday a VAO about, I also asked the Minister to discuss it. But I noticed in that general consultation that there was actually very little mood. It was more like, "Yeah, if the Chamber thinks so, I'll go." Yesterday, also supported by Mrs Agema, we had a bit of annoying interrupting debate on this subject. If we find homogenization therapy so horrible, should we know whether it is being offered in this country at the moment? But I understand the Minister's reaction. We're gonna look at the Chamber address on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u109	Okay, continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u110	Sure, we're gonna see that next week. Mr. Chairman. One of the reasons why the cabinet and myself have also voted against the Nashville Declaration is the following. They asked earlier why there's so much fuss. That statement is called the Nashville Declaration for a reason. The declaration is an export product of a very conservative movement that is currently coming this way from the United States, and is committed to undoing achievements on the Ihbti site we have here. I think we should be alert about that. By the way, you see the same thing when restricting women's rights. When I read the newspaper today about what is happening in the area of abortion in the United States, it gives me chills. So I also really think we should be on this alert. Again, it's called the Nashville Declaration for a reason. Some of you, Mr Krol, mentioned it as well as Mr Krol, said that, fortunately, the lifting of the declaration also had a positive effect. The rainbow flag was indeed about sold out. Many city halls, churches, schools and associations have raised that flag and have spontaneously expressed their homage to love. Let me put it this way. And I thought that was a very nice gesture of solidarity to society. I hope it does something with the numbers we see in the monitor. As far as legislation is concerned, we have done well in this country. People also think you're allowed to be who you are, but there's still too much discomfort in there. I hope that this fuss and all that flag show have helped. I too, as Minister of Emancipation, remain in talks with organizations, especially in order to try to promote emancipation in Christian circles. I spoke with them after that statement, and I also noticed the touch there, because they also feel that we are all on the right track. There is a good dialogue in so many churches; please let us not take a step back. I will continue to support them in that. I mentioned the rainbow town of Dordrecht. That is a really good example of how this dialogue is conducted with the churches. I am hopeful that it will help us to take further steps. Mr. Chairman. A number of other questions were asked to me. Some of you rightly expressed concerns about the transgender youth. When you look at the studies, it's really worse than with other Ihbti young people. The SCP is coming up next year with a report on Ihbti youth. I am going to discuss with them how we can ensure that transgender young people are better monitored so that we can put our finger on the problem and take more targeted measures. In the monitors that are there now, we don't have enough visibility. Mrs Özütok was right to point that out. Mrs Bergkamp asked about the worse scores on well-being and health of bisexual men and women. There are indeed concerns about this too. Paradoxically, the vast majority of the population think positively of bisexual men and women, but according to research, belonging to a minority group gives them an increased risk of health problems: minority stress syndrome. By thinking dominantly, binaryly, you are now man or woman..................................................................................... I will talk to the COC to see, in the light of these findings, whether we should also take additional steps for that group. There's been an interesting Australian investigation in that field. I am going to see if we can translate that research into the Netherlands, so that we know more precisely what it is about and how we can improve it. Mrs Özütok and Mrs Bergkamp also asked about the gaps in the monitors for intersex persons. We see in those monitors that that's complicated, because it's a small group. In monitors about large groups in society, small groups appear poorly. I'm talking to the SCP and Rutgers about how we can measure that better. I will inform the Chamber about this at the next progress report. Mrs Bergkamp asked me to come back to the Nashville Declaration on what we are going to do if there is a youth version of that statement. What is that going to mean for the well-being of young people? I will certainly be alert to that, as I say to Mrs Bergkamp, because for all students and students there must be a socially safe environment at school and space to be themselves. Under the Safety at School Act, the school has to provide annual data on this matter to the inspection. If social security is insufficient, we will also intervene in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u111	I'm going to see Mrs Özütok in between.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u112	I just wanted to get back to those tests. Indeed, such a monitor is about larger groups. What is the specific problem of the small groups does not arise. I welcome the Minister's commitment that she wants to take a closer look at this and make a proposal for it. Thank you for that. My proposal is to include the NNID as well, because they have a lot of knowledge and experience with this. Is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u113	Yeah, I'm willing to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u114	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u115	Mr. Chairman. I believe that Mrs Özütok and Mrs Bergkamp, as well as Mr Van Dijk, asked about the school director who gave his opinion on the Nashville Declaration. Mr Slob and I have answered some of your questions. I say again that the entire cabinet has distanced itself from the Nashville Declaration. At the same time, however, the freedom of expression also applies to individuals in this society. Those are core values and fundamental rights in our society that can really wring. But we do attach great importance to the fact that an open and respectful conversation can take place in all schools about sexual diversity and, by the way, about religion. My officials have had a discussion with the Board of Driestar College and the school has indicated that it can guarantee a socially safe environment, including for Ihbti students. Moreover, surveys carried out by the school show that this is confirmed by parents and pupils. Mr Van Dijk asked whether the committee in the law on protection names and degrees of higher education and the committee on responsibility in higher education could look at the manifestations of higher education boards that we do not actually find compatible with our democratic legal order or the basic values in our society, and whether we could extend their operation. I'm exploring for the MBO myself. As far as primary and secondary education is concerned, Mr Slob and I have announced a letter, as you know, on tightening up the supervisory instruments. In the context of that letter, we shall return to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u116	A brief interruption, Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u117	Of course, I'd like to hear when that letter comes. Can I conclude from this reply from the Minister that she is in principle in favour of the direction of thought I have indicated, not only in higher education but also in the other types of school, that we can ask from administrators social responsibility? Isn't it crazy that this only applies to higher education?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u118	Yeah, I agree with that direction of thought. Not for nothing have I said: I am exploring it very concretely for the MBO. For p.o. And we're still looking at how appropriate it is in the instruments. I'll give you a letter on that before the summer. It deals more broadly with the monitoring tools and their tightening up. The Party for Animals asked for attention to be paid to the transgender person and what I actually do about it. A few things. We have the Alliance Shared Proud for five years, in which we work very concretely with organizations to improve the position of transgender persons. I also support GenderTalent, an organisation that focuses on coaching and work guidance for transgender people who, for example, are out of work for a longer period of time due to transition. At the moment we are exploring the improvement of transgender care and leave together with the ministries of VWS and SZW, so we are really working on concrete steps. It is not only monitoring but of course we also do a number of things. Mrs Agema asked if we do not have broader concerns about views on Ihbti individuals in certain groups. The SCP report shows that the social acceptance for lhbti individuals across society, among all groups, is increasing; also among Muslims and all religious groups, and that is profit. We are not yet here, but we are making progress and we must continue to do so, for example by ensuring good citizenship education in schools. I say to Mr Van Dijk that we are working on a very concrete strengthening of that citizenship mission, as he knows. The legislation on MBO and primary and secondary education is in preparation and we hope to be able to submit it to the Chamber as soon as possible. In this way, by integrating new generations into that acceptance of sexual diversity from a young age, we hope to continue to promote that acceptance in society. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Dijk asks me what the inspection does if schools do not show progress. I think he asks me every time we have a debate here. Once again, we are strengthening this citizenship mission, and I think that is important in this context. Mr Van Dijk, of course, had a point when he said that the mandate and the wording are sometimes vague, so that perhaps they got away with it a little too easily. "We did something about it," when you really do have questions: did they do the right thing? So that's why we're tightening up that assignment. If the inspection receives real signals and sees in the monitoring that this task is not being followed up in education, then the normal monitoring tools apply. I'm just gonna say it again. I hope and expect that the tightening of the core targets on this point will help the inspection to tighten up that monitoring.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u119	The Minister stepped over my input very easily. I quoted from the report of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. It states that Turkish and Moroccan pupils in particular think negatively about homosexuality, that the reactions to homosexuality are mostly negative in public and that a large proportion of homosexuals would not allow their own circle of friends. Also, more than a third indicate having problems with homosexual teachers. In addition, all violence against homosexuals in Amsterdam accounts for 36% of Moroccans. And then the Minister gives the only response here: yes, but I see the Ihbti acceptance rising among all groups. What kind of reaction is that to such a big problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u120	Wherever it comes from, violence against and discrimination against Ihbti individuals is always reprehensible or, if criminal offences are committed, even punishable. That goes no matter who it comes from. No matter who it comes from. I have just said that we still have a task to do with improving that acceptance. I just said that we also see in the SCP monitor that it is rising among all groups, and I think that is hopeful. But we're not there yet. That is also what I said. That is why, in education, in associations and wherever we can, we must continue to make a full commitment to promoting the acceptance of sexual diversity. But I do not think that we should make a distinction on the basis of who this non-acceptance or that violence comes from. Whoever does that, regardless of the background, it's equally reprehensible. However, we need to be fully committed to all the groups where there is still work to be done in terms of acceptance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u121	There's more to do than "some more work." Surely it is not possible for the Minister here to say that it is really just about acceptance and acceptance, whereas the real challenge lies in the fact that 36% of the perpetrators of violence against homosexuals in Amsterdam are Moroccans and that Turks and Moroccans indicate that they do not really want to allow homosexuals to enter their circle of friends and have problems with a teacher who is gay? I asked what the Minister will do about this. Then she can't say, "I see the acceptance increase"? What are the concrete plans? What is the Minister going to do about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u122	I believe that Mrs Agema knows very well what we are doing to promote the acceptance of Ihbti individuals, as this is also contained in all the plans in the Chamber. However, in the way we deal with this in education, for example, I do not distinguish between the religious background of individuals, for example. Because here too, I think everyone is equal. But I very much agree with you that we have another task there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u123	Mrs Agema, finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u124	What a disorderly response! Really, everyone's equal. 36% of those responsible for violence against homosexuals in Amsterdam are Moroccan. They're not Dutch, they're 36%.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u125	Most of those 36% are just Dutch, just like you and me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u126	But these Turks and Moroccans prefer not to be gay in their circle of friends, according to the report of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. They'd rather not have a gay teacher. That's cultural. That has to do with their origins. And then the Minister says here: yes, but I'm not going to make a distinction. How does she think she can solve the problem if she is not prepared to face the truth and make a distinction?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u127	Raising young people in a society in which we want to teach them that we do not distinguish by origin, nationality, cultural background or sexual orientation begins by giving a good example: that we do not distinguish where parents come from. A Dutchman is just a Dutchman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u128	Absolutely, a Dutchman is a Dutchman, where he was born. I am sorry that Mrs Agema did not make her own point, because I thought it was a good point and was here to support it. I think this is what this is about. At the moment when a particular group is overrepresented on the perpetrator's side, it is relevant to see what is behind it and what policy you could specifically pursue to formulate a targeted approach to it. On anti-Semitism, together with the Christian Union, we have stated in an initiative paper that we believe that the perpetrators are in extreme left-wing, extreme right-wing and part of the Muslim community. Why is that important to know? Because then you can formulate a targeted approach. If you see that a group is overrepresented, it might be good to draw specific attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u129	It could go through education. In schools, where the background of pupils is culturally very diverse, we see acceptance really increasing. So in education we work with an approach that works, because that acceptance is increasing. Fortunately, in many of those classes there are also students with a diverse background. If a specific approach works for a specific group, we will have to use it. The same applies, for example, to the question of what to do to increase acceptance in football associations. We look at which approach works where, but in education we just see that a firm approach to the core goals, good education at this point, is working, because that acceptance is increasing across the board. That we're not here yet, I'll tell you right away. If there's overrepresentation, you need to see if a specific approach is needed, yes. We see this in sport, for example. We still have a lot of work to do there. There too, you have to opt for a targeted approach. You can also see this in our policy plans: where necessary, we really choose a targeted approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u130	I think it is very good that the Minister also stresses where things are going well. That's what I see in my environment and that's my experience when I go to schools myself. The good thing is that education very often doesn't even have to do so anymore, because young people, wherever their parents were born, just learn from home that everyone is equal. So that movement is there, and I welcome it. I hope it only gets more. But I just heard the minister say, okay, if there's a group overrepresented and there's a need for special attention, then we'll look into that. We certainly do that in football too, fortunately, because that is a real problem. Can I interpret this as a commitment that we are going to see which groups are most affected by the IBT community, let me put it this way, and whether there is an overrepresentation in it and what we could do about it, can do extra if you look at what is going on now? Can we agree to that as a promise?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u131	The most important thing is that it actually starts in education. Schools have a core they have to get. How they get it is up to the schools themselves. The strength of what happens in education is that schools themselves usually know best how to achieve these goals with their students. I'm not gonna tell schools how to reach them. It seems to me very wrong, for example, to do so from education. What they must achieve is clear, how they must achieve it, is often a real task, for example, of education itself. Just as we are always in conversation with Christian groups and Sports about how to make alliances and how to take more steps forward within these groups, we are always in conversation with education and working with various approaches. I don't have to make a commitment about that anymore, because we already do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u132	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u133	I understand what the Minister is saying, but that's not how I see it. I also understand and think that in education you should not make a distinction between students and approaches. That's absolutely not what I'm saying. But of course it is not only in education and in that age group where there may be problems, it is about a lot of different things. I would very much like the Minister, perhaps with her colleague, to look at what is behind it and what groups are overrepresented on the perpetrator side, for example from violence against IBTs. Well, then, as far as I'm concerned, we're not really talking about education anymore. Is there still a need for specific attention and an approach? I can imagine that this portfolio is transcending, so I would like it very much if the ministers could give me a letter on that together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u134	Mr Grapperhaus will be addressing the issue of violence in a moment. When it comes to promoting acceptance, I know and you know that the policy plan contains emancipation that we work with very targeted alliances in certain areas to ensure that we do within certain groups what is necessary in those groups to promote acceptance, always in conversation with the target groups themselves. I am very keen to talk to groups themselves about what works best in their circle and what we can do best. Mr Grapperhaus will return to the fight against violence in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u135	Mrs. Bergkamp, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u136	The minister of course says "a Dutchman is a Dutchman," "we see a positive development" and "education is important." I agree with the Minister, but the strange thing is that I also recognize what my colleague from the VVD says about this. I also get a lot of reactions from friends, acquaintances and drags, which Mrs Yeşilgöz also mentioned, who just don't feel safe and that sometimes that's just because of Moroccan boys. My question is therefore whether both leaders want to see what is going on there, just from the point of view of equality and security, however important it is, of course, that everyone is equal. Do both rulers want to talk to a number of people who no longer feel safe, wherever they are, just to find out what that insecurity is about, when and if that's when they're going out? Do they also want to look at this problem with the parents of these guys, who are often looking at it a little more broadly and concretely, without wanting to throw everyone on a pile?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u137	Okay, you made your point. Then I'm going to... About the same point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u138	Yes. I think that's exactly what we're doing. In order to promote acceptance, we look at where further steps need to be taken and how we can address them in a good way with the target group concerned. As has already been said, Mr Grapperhaus is going to deal with violence immediately, because then it is really about security. We're working on long-term alliances because I understand very well and we've seen very well that this isn't something you do in a year. We always have these five-year alliances to ensure that we can talk with those groups themselves about the question: how, for example, can we promote acceptance in sport, in people with different cultural backgrounds?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u139	This is actually going to be a bit of a repetition of the same interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u140	I'm gonna keep going at this point. One characteristic has hardly been mentioned yet, which goes right through all these different groups of people. That's because they're all really men. Almost all of the perpetrators of violence against Ihbtis are men. I see the Minister shaking his head now, but the perpetrators of violence against Ihbtis are to a large extent men, and they are almost all of the same age group. They're mostly young men. I have often spoken with the Minister about the importance of paying attention to the emancipation of boys and men. Fortunately there are also some beautiful projects in the Netherlands that focus on this. I would like to ask the Minister: does she agree with me that it is precisely in the light of these statistics, those figures and those demographic data, that it is so very important to work with boys on acceptance and a broader interpretation of what gender stereotypes mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u141	That is what is needed widely in the population. So yes, also with boys and men. We must do more to improve acceptance and combat violence. And yes, emancipation is also a matter of boys and men.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u142	It's not everyone's business. That's exactly the point I want to make. When we look at the perpetrator profiles of violence against Ihbti, but also of other hate crimes, of gender based violin and of violence behind the front door, we see a heavy overrepresentation of young men in almost all violent crimes. That's the point I want to make here. That's a point we've had a lot of exchanges about. That is one point that I still miss in the broader emancipation policy. We will certainly be discussing this in greater detail shortly. But does the Minister agree with me that in the light of these figures it is very important to look at what they call "toxic masculinity" in English and at breaking gender stereotypes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u143	According to the Emancipation Paper, I also discussed in detail the importance of combating gender stereotypes across the board. So yes, there you have my support, because that is already in the Emancipation Note. And it's already in policy. Mr. Chairman. Finally, as far as my part of the answer is concerned. Mr Van Dijk asked for a number of motions, including the Cornelius Haga. What I am saying applies to all the motions adopted in that debate, including those tabled by Mr Van Dijk. The study of the education inspection is still ongoing. This is expected to be public on 1 July. Then Mr Slob will respond to all the motions that have been adopted. So I really have to ask for patience.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u144	And Mr Jasper van Dijk knows that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u145	That's right. I would therefore like to go back to the point that has been made. The minister said that the inspection checks the schools for sexual diversity. If this does not go well, the usual instruments will be used. My question is: can the Minister give us an overview of measures taken if schools have not complied with these core objectives? It doesn't have to be exhausting, but can we get a look at that? What did the inspection do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u146	I believe that the inspection produces an annual report every year. We shall therefore pay particular attention to this point in that annual report.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u147	I asked one more question...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u148	Yes, but if it's okay, your question will come.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u149	Then I'm gonna sit tight again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u150	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u151	I do have two more questions. That's Mrs. Geluk-Poortvliet's question about support for organizations like the John Blankenstein Foundation, From the Castle in the Church, Homo in the Class. Can we continue to support them in order to maintain good dialogue in society as well? Yes, we do, and yes, we continue to work with all these organisations to promote dialogue, because they can do so much good work in their own environment. Finally, Mr Krol's question on a national memento in Best. I will understand myself with the congregation, because I am a former alderman enough to know that a plaque somewhere in the municipality is often a matter of the municipality. I will understand with them to see what the possibilities are, so that all those tourists who come to the Netherlands because of that fantastic acquisition of gay marriage, will find out where that ever began. Mr President, that was it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u152	I asked another question about the rainbow flag in the plenary. I don't know if you're gonna answer that or your colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u153	That's what the room's about. If that's what you want, you'll have to file a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u154	I would certainly not dare to make a statement about the plenary sitting here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u155	Apologies, that's a matter for the Presidium, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u156	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u157	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about an important issue as far as I am concerned, especially the safety of our society and just ensuring that everyone in the Netherlands who is Ihbti can live well. Why do I start with this? Because, as far as I am concerned, this debate should not be clouded by the Nashville Declaration. The Nashville Declaration strikes me personally, precisely because it denies the identity of entire groups in our society, just like the homophobic and transphobic expressions of hate preachers, whether Islamic or Christian. I am a Christian myself, but I do feel the most touched by what Mrs Arissen said earlier: God is love for me. This also means: in relation to everyone in society. Enough has already been said about the cabinet's position. The fact that we cannot go into this further has also to do with the fact that the Public Prosecutor is currently conducting a criminal investigation in the context of the Nashville Declaration. Violence, but also hate-sowinging, I have said it earlier today in this Chamber in another debate. In a democratic rule of law, it is unacceptable. If, in many cases, such violence and hate-stowing are also directed against a particular group of people who are vulnerable to violence in society, additional efforts are needed to tackle this discriminatory violence. These additional efforts are described in the Safety LGBTI Action Plan. That plan contains a robust package of measures: 38. They come from my ministry and focus on everything related to the criminal law approach to these specific forms of discrimination. These measures have been presented in the midst of ongoing initiatives from the ministry of colleague Van Engelshoven and the four major cities. In addition, they are now also coming from my ministry. In addition to physical safety, this approach also focuses on social security. I understand that at the beginning of my speech I would like to stress very clearly that this approach is being considered critically. I also understand that on a number of points it is said: is this really enough? This is a 38-point plan, which we are working on. It's a plan of action that I'm going to talk about in the next few months. First with the chairman of the Human Rights College and then with the organisations that have criticized them in letters. However, as my colleague has already said, we must be aware that we have been doing a lot of work on this in recent years. As far as I am concerned, we are still in the early stages of a number of things that we need to achieve in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u158	And now the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u159	Yeah, the questions. Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with the police action plan, which Mrs Van den Hul and Mrs Geluk-Poortvliet asked for. What's happening? If you look at these 38 points, you will see that, above all, there is a build-up of threshold lowering measures to increase the willingness to report. I realize there's a big problem there. Only 10% to 15% of the lhbtis report. In the conversation I had with a group of transgenders on this subject, I was able to see how difficult that is for them in many cases. We need to work on this with that action plan, but also by the way. We need to increase that willingness to report. Those Pink in Blue employee networks are connected to their own group in society from a common background. The aim is to allow them to work threshold lowering in contacts with the police in particular. Mrs van den Hul asked: what are the improvements we can expect in dealing with commune offences with a discriminatory element in this particular area? I said all the necessary things about the police in my introduction and now again. The police have been reporting to the units every 14 days since this year about discrimination incidents in the unit. This gives the opportunity to react quickly and to intervene appropriately, but it also gives a very up-to-date overview. In the case of a Community discrimination offence, it is stated in the policy that a criminal offence is a criminal offence, which is translated into the claim. I have already written to the Chamber that I have an investigation at the WODC to ask whether we should not include this in the legislation. Anyway, that heavier requirement could go up to 100%. In doing so, the public prosecutor sends out a very clear signal of how seriously this is being taken up. Mrs Yeşilgöz had an important point: how do we measure? Let me say the following. I intend to do two things, in addition to and new to the plan. One. I want to run a quick scan to the report ready so I can at least see how it works now. What are the factors that have or have not affected that? Two. I want to do an independent, compact investigation around this time next year, and we should not be working for two years to see if there is any improvement in safety. Why do I want to do that? In these 38 points there are many difficult to quantify points. You have just debated with my colleague: do you have to look at young men? Mrs Agema mentioned the number of people from a particular population group, but 56% of the CODIS facts recorded are simply men of western origin. So that's the biggest group after all. All these elements really need to be looked at independently. How do you weigh that? It has to be said that measures 3.5, 7, 8 and 10 contribute and measures 12, 14, 16 and 17 do not help us enough. At least we are going to take these two measures together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u160	Mrs Van den Hul, I would like a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u161	I hear the Minister say: this is difficult to quantify. One thing that is highly quantifiable is the number of convictions. That number is currently in stark contrast to the number of reports and incidents. I said in my speech that I think there is certainly a link between the willingness to report and the low number of convictions. So what is the Minister going to do in concrete terms to ensure that, in the end, more often is convicted?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u162	I have a list of eight arguments or reasons why that number of convictions is so low. They have nothing to do with unwillingness or bad work by the Public Prosecutor's Office, the police or anyone else in the judiciary, but there are a lot of things to do with that. Among other things, at some point, many things are registered by the police themselves. An anti-gay cry on a wall is also seen as an incident, but it doesn't matter. Among other things, it is because it is often about polyplayers. Then there's only one case. There are still many reasons. This is one of the reasons why it is so difficult that it is always said: yes, there were 1,300 declarations, but they only led to seven convictions. That does not alter the fact that I also think that those two numbers are in stark contrast to each other. So that's what I care about. I'm going to have it independently measured in a year's time and examined by people looking at the whole package. What did help and what didn't help? I'll be right back with those specialist detectives.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u163	Mr. Chairman. I still haven't heard an answer to my question. What is the Minister going to do in concrete terms to increase the number of convictions? Doing an investigation is not a solution; that's just measuring.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u164	But...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u165	If I could just finish my question, Mr. Chairman? In his letter last Monday, the Minister writes in response to concerns expressed by interest groups that he sees nothing in a specialised hatecrime unit. In my speech, I pointed out that, as far as I am concerned, this actually contradicts what he says a few more sentences, namely that criminal prosecution of discrimination can be complex. Does the Minister not agree with us that precisely because of this complexity, a specialised investigative unit might contribute to the success rate, and ultimately to a higher number of convictions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u166	No, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van den Hul asks two questions. I had already answered the first question, but I repeat it again. What am I going to do to raise the number of convictions? I can't, because I'm not a judge. Whatever the judge or the state's attorney's office is doing, I really shouldn't interfere. What I can do is work on increasing the willingness to report; I have already said that. I would then like to give the police more and more the opportunity to bring those reports to the prosecution's office as well. Or that leads to convictions? You can assume that in cases where there is a good cause, which is well prepared, this leads to convictions. Above all, however, it is a matter of increasing the embarrassing percentage for our society from only 10% to 15% of the Libyans to make that declaration. I have to do everything I can to get that percentage up. People must feel safe to press charges and be protected. Then we must continue to do so. Then the detectives. No, we shouldn't. There's no contradiction in the letter. On page 2 of the letter, I have indeed explained in detail that tackling discrimination is not to the advantage of the phenomenon of specialised detectives. Because then you get very, very fragmented expertise. On the other hand, we put our bets on that Pink in Blue Network. By the way, this is represented in all units, by someone sitting there or by a direct contact person, with telephone numbers etc. What are you gonna do? So it's important that these victims file a report and that you lower the thresholds. Detectives need to be trained very well, especially at the Police Academy, so they can deal with these things. I believe that this was also the subject of a question from Mrs Luck. What's that line about that says it's hard? That's about that aspect of evidence: that's what it says. But that doesn't just play in cases of discrimination, because there are just a lot of cases that have to do with evidence being difficult. We can have another discussion about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u167	Mrs Yeşilgöz, a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u168	What I miss very much, and I think that is also why I was pretty upset about the action plan, is an analysis by the Minister. Do we have a big problem here, yes or no? I think so. Seven out of ten Ihbtis suffer from this. In November, another hundred people were at the door saying, "We will no longer accept this; we need your help." If the Minister agrees with those sounds, those figures and that tone, then I would like to hear: this is my analysis; this is what it is; and this is what I am going to do, and you can keep to this. Then I'd love it if we could measure it next year. I miss that whole thing. I see here a collection of projects at local level, national level, of everything. I miss the analysis. I like that we're gonna measure it next year. I also like that something concrete comes up, but I don't know what I'm measuring on. I don't know what the minister's basic analysis is, where we're going with each other and why it's not going well right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u169	It's a good thing this question is coming. I mentioned a few concrete things that I would like to highlight. That is: increasing the willingness to report and increasing the number of successful dossiers, if I may put it that way. That is where the measures must lead. One of your members said it's a circle. As the returns lead to success, you will also be more encouraged and have a flywheel effect. That is the point of that analysis which I draw to the extent that you can hear it from my voice and my use of words, and I think it is a very serious and worrying problem that people simply do not dare to express themselves in the sense of a declaration on the grounds of their sexual orientation or sex. We really need to work on that with each other. You're looking at me. First of all, I have to do that with the justice system. We have to do that, which is why I wanted to take up Yeşilgöz's criticism of measuring immediately in consultation with the officials and say 'that's how we have to measure it in a year's time'. But that analysis you're talking about... Let me assure you that after the meeting with the chairman of the college and the talks I want to have with the Transgender Network Netherlands and COC, I will come back to you again with a letter if we have everything in a row, to say something about that analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u170	Finally, Mrs Yeşilgöz.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u171	Very briefly. I take this commitment with both hands. I look forward to the moment when we are going to talk about it again. Seven out of ten people who are attacked, spit, intimidated and discriminated against. We can't solve that by increasing the willingness to report it. You're gonna get the perps to go to jail, but I'm gonna miss an analysis at different levels. That's the point I made. I would be delighted if the Minister would also have talks with COC and the transgender network with a few other interest groups who have written to us. They bring from their own specific supporters...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u172	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u173	I would like to see a broad discussion of the Minister and a broad analysis. Then we'll get back to that soon. Very much in the short term, because it took us two years to get here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u174	I'm also in favour of a broad analysis. We have, of course, discussed these issues before, sometimes in a smaller context, even in the Chambers. I'll run into other good faces. I think we can talk about this in a reasonable time, let me say soon after the summer recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u175	Still, about that specialized detective team. There were about 11,000 registered discrimination cases in the period 2010-2013. About 3,000 have gone to the D.A.'s office. From the research of the WODC we know that there are so few because there is a lack of evidence. The minister says you shouldn't specialize, because that's not convenient. But when it comes to cyber, financial-economic or vice, there are specialized detectives. So I don't understand that argument. The D.A. has it. We see abroad, for example in England, where experience has been gained, that it does work. If the Minister wants the declaration to go up, then it must make sense to report and then it must eventually lead to a conviction. So my question is: why doesn't the Minister just want to gain experience in a pilot, to see if it works or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u176	I told you before, we've been betting on that Pink in Blue. There's something else going on abroad. I am not going to explain all this in detail. I have also indicated that extra attention is paid to this in police education. The action plan also mentions a lot of actions to increase awareness, knowledge and so on in the police. The deployment of the corps leadership is aimed at combining good knowledge on the subject of discrimination and Pink in Blue. Thirdly, we say that it should be about the right detectives. That's why we don't want this fragmentation. If we conclude in a year's time on the basis of that independent research that Pink in Blue combined with these other two things is not the right solution, then I imagine you say: then perhaps we should go that other way. Once again, you must realise, of course, that this is also the final note of discrimination. Otherwise, that would be unequal treatment. I really think it's a good solution that from Pink in Blue, people with their personal experience lets you pass on that expertise, along with detective knowledge and along with knowledge of discrimination.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u177	We are also concerned about such a team of discrimination in general. It's about race, Ihbti, anti-Semitism. The minister says he wants to do research. He wants a quick scan to see if it works or not. So the Minister also states that he doesn't know whether it works or not. That's why I don't understand why such a pilot isn't being tried to draw the same conclusion, which is that it does or doesn't work?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u178	No, I said something else about Pink in Blue. I have said that the leadership is very positive about this, including on the basis of internal and external support. I also said that the commitment at the police academy, but also after police education on more expertise for all detectives in the field of discrimination, is also working very well. This is also reflected in the plan of action on a number of points. Then we have the third point about investigative knowledge in general, but you can assume that the police are at a high level if that is what this is all about. That's a choice we're making right now. There really is a conscious policy behind that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u179	If the Minister expects Pink in Blue to be able to perform some very specific functions when it comes to detective work, then I do not understand why the network is not getting a firmer position.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u180	All units have Pink in Blue at their disposal, either inside or through a direct contact 24/7 and directly accessible. Only in emergency situations should 112 be called, but then there is a 112 situation going on, as you will understand. This is, therefore, really secured in the rural infrastructure for tackling discrimination by the police. In doing so, the corps leadership has made a very clear commitment to this, also in the context of its diversity policy, the Force of the Difference. I do agree with your Chamber that in a year's time we should have an external review of whether it has actually produced results, particularly in the form of an increase in the willingness to report and the number of cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u181	But they are volunteers who work in such a network. They have no anchored function. That's what it's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u182	No, wait a minute. It's people who work in the police...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u183	Yeah, but they're willing to do that. It's not a formation. It is also not a position such as that of a member of the works council, or whatever.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u184	That's another discussion. Whether you would agree at any time that something should happen in the legal protection is another point to consider. But it is a network where at least the police department says: we are committed to it, it works and they are just paid police officers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u185	Finally, Mrs Özütok.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u186	Let me put the question differently: is the Minister prepared to look at that position of the people of Pink in Blue?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u187	Yeah, absolutely. It's not meant to get people to add a little, let's say, in the context of unpaid overtime. So I will promise you that, and I will come back to that in the letter we discussed earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u188	The Minister has gone into the specialist detectives. I am going to discuss this with my colleague at Justice in our group. What I have also mentioned in my contribution is that there is often no declaration. The Minister also addressed this: increasing the willingness to report. But discrimination is not always recognised; it is not always registered. At the time when there is an incident of violence, it is noted, but the background is not known, because no request is made. I see the Minister's leaves. Perhaps he would have come back to that in his reply; then I was too early. My question to the Minister is: how does he intend to improve that element?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u189	Mrs Dik-Faber is right to raise a point. What we have come across in the past is that we simply noticed that things, because there were more facts, did not come up in the registration well and clearly. I should look up exactly where that is in those 38 points, but that really needs to be improved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u190	I am glad to hear that the Minister says that this should be improved. Then, of course, my question remains: how are we going to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u191	By introducing a system, in which that aspect of discrimination also plays a part in a case. We also need this registration in the context of that other point, namely whether, for example, in the case of violence, you should bring into law the discriminatory factor that has played a role as a criminal aggravating ground. Right now, it's just in the D.A.'s policy. Mr. Chairman. I assume that I have answered Mrs Geluk-Poortvliet's question about the learning line on Ihbti discrimination. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen pointed out that fighting violence against the Ibti people should be a high priority in the Security Agenda. The Security Agenda has also been discussed with your Chamber. That was last year in November, I say memorized. It is, of course, composed with very close participation of the regional mayors and the National Security and Police Consultation. There, performance agreements are always made only on the main topics: undermining, trafficking in human beings, cybercrime, child pornography and execution. However, this includes the development agenda for Area-related police services, and that is where the link that agents need to have with a number of issues, including discrimination, is playing a role. But I will say out loud: I myself have seen reason to give personal priority to a number of issues, because they have not been selected as the top priorities in this Agenda for Security. This is one of them. Mrs Bergkamp asked to what extent you can take into the Safety Monitor that people do not dare to be visible themselves. The annual reporting has been broken down into these different orientations since 2013. But it is not yet specifically about lhb-related violence, but about the differences between lhb- and heterosexual citizens in experiencing general forms of violence and feelings of security. And to map out this anti-lhtb behavior in the Netherlands, in addition to the reporting figures, two more sources are used: studies of experience with negative responses to sexual orientation and general victim surveys. I agree to include the subject raised by Mrs Bergkamp in the discussions to see if we can take that with us. The next Safety Monitor is a little too early for that, but I say so. I'm almost through, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van den Hul asked about the legal frontier of freedom of expression. It's in the form of group swearing and inciting discrimination, hatred and violence. Of course, prosecutors and judges are judging that. The same applies to the assessment of the declarations made in connection with the Nashville Declaration. I told you, I'm not going into that. Is there any willingness to come up with an initiative to tackle street harassment? I'm talking to municipalities to see if we can come up with meaningful preventive actions. It is precisely when we, as a society, subscribe to the dignity of women and those living with them as a standard that we can guarantee much better in public space. The current initiative proposal from your Chamber aimed at criminalising sexual harassment is a very interesting and justified development, which I also support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u192	This was a question from Mrs Van den Hul. I really want one short question to be asked, because there is also a second deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u193	I still miss the Minister's response to my question about the curriculum of police training.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u194	I already told you what's in the curriculum of police training. I may be able to give more specific insight into this, but I do not know what I have not answered exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u195	I asked a question as to whether the Minister would be prepared to guarantee, in the light of the update of the police curriculum referred to in the letter, a much more robust guarantee of lhbt discrimination, with 'lhbt' in brackets as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u196	Yes, of discrimination, then. I am going to look at that and come back to you in concrete terms. I need to see how that's secured right now. I'll answer for that. If that is not sufficiently secured, I promise to do so. I'm gonna have to take a look at what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u197	Will you return to that in the second term or by letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u198	I wanted to return to that in the same letter which comes shortly after the summer recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u199	Mrs Yeşilgöz, also a very short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u200	I'm afraid I'm starting to feel like we're gonna delay a lot, investigate a lot and go check it out. The figures, which we have all just repeated, do show that acute action is needed. I asked a question about street harassment myself. I said, please, go talk to the VNG and see if you can get that into entertainment areas. Why the VNG? In the APV you can arrange this much faster than when you have to wait for a legal treatment in the Chamber. DOD's great, but you're gonna need a stick to punch when people don't want to listen. That is what a street harassment approach can serve in the entertainment areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u201	I have already said that we are already talking to the mayors about the street harassment. There must indeed be a united approach to this. I fully agree with Mrs Yeşilgöz. You can also see that the plan of action says above all that in a number of areas the approach as it is in Amsterdam and Rotterdam should be extended much more. I would briefly like to emphasise the following. In the end, it is in our system that we have to realize the local triangle that decides on that. I'd be happy to give you that meeting table. But before Mrs Yeşilgöz says, "Well, it all seems like things are gonna be..." I notice that I don't mean that. But I have to get the other parties involved. I'm gonna do my best to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u202	Will you report back on that in the same letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u203	All this is reported in the same letter, because that is what we are talking about right now. I'll be able to give you a break from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u204	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u205	Mr. Chairman. Then I actually only have to answer the question about conversion therapy. My colleague has already said something about this, but I would like to add that we must realise that our criminal law is a little richer than we sometimes think. For example, if there is a criminal coercion, the Public Prosecutor and the police can act against it. That's one. And two: apart from that, there is also the possibility that such actions, such courses or advertisements may involve discriminatory expressions. I told you, our criminal justice system is pretty rich. It has good descriptions of crimes that make it possible to successfully prosecute such a case if it is really discriminatory or coercive what is going on. Ms Yeşilgöz and Mr Van Dijk asked about the reactions to the extremist speakers. I sent you a very detailed letter yesterday. In that letter I also indicated that we are on top of that. You have seen this from the American preacher Anderson, whom Mr Harbers and I are speaking about, because the English TV has an important role in this area outside the Schengen area. We also keep a close eye on whether it's in The Blue Mosque or elsewhere, or there are hate preachers who might start to express themselves in a way that is contrary to our criminal law. I refer to yesterday's letter. Then I came to the end of my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u206	Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. And I give Mrs. Bergkamp...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Is it possible to suspend for five minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u208	Yes, very soon. Then that's what we'll do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u209	I give the floor to Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u210	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It has become clear in this debate that we want to cherish and protect ourselves, but also that many actions and measures are still needed to combat homophobia and violence in our society. I had prepared a motion on population research and to look specifically at transgender backgrounds and gender identity. Since the Minister made a commitment on that point, I shall not table the motion. However, I do have a motion regarding the Pink in Blue Network. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Pink in Blue Network as a safety net for lesbians, homosexuals and bisexuals and transgenders is of great value both inside and outside the police force;]] [[whereas Pink in Blue is now mainly an internal network and is seen as such within the national police;]] [[Whereas Pink in Blue could play a greater role in assisting victims of lhbti violence and discrimination by being familiar with and trusted by the target group;]] [[calls on the government to examine how Pink's position in Blue can be better secured in the police organisation, which also looks at the legal status of the network,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Özütok, Mr Van den Hul, Mr Krol and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30420-306]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u211	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for their response. I really liked that they were clear about what they found and that they shared it with the Chamber. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that transgender persons benefit from disability or assistance benefits twice as much as on average;]] [[Whereas prejudices about transgender persons among colleagues and employers and the increased mental and physical health problems among transgender persons may be possible explanations;]] [[calls on the Government to identify obstacles to transgendering in the labour market, to assess the extent to which there is a bottleneck with existing leave arrangements and to explore ways to improve the labour market position of this group,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the victim's willingness to report is low because of the low level of reporting;]] [[Whereas the designation of discrimination against the Public Prosecutor shows that the police report is of great importance for the possibility of prosecuting the perpetrator;]] [[Whereas specialized knowledge will enable the declaration to be better examined on discriminatory aspects which may lead to more convictions;]] [[Calls on the Government to investigate through a pilot whether the use of specialised detectives in discrimination could lead to more successful completion of cases and thereby increase the reporting willingness, and inform the Court of Justice of this by mid 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas reactionary forces in the EU want to restrict the rights of Libyas and appear to be gaining ground in several Member States;]] [[Whereas the Coman judgment has paved the way for married partners of equal sex to settle as married couples across borders;]] [[Whereas this is an important step in recognising the rights of rainbow families across borders;]] [[calls on the Government to give an appropriate decision in the EU on compliance with the Coman judgment in all EU Member States and to report on it to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bergkamp, Mr Van den Hul, Mr Özütok and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30420-307]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bergkamp, Mr Den Boer and Mr Özütok. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30420-308]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bergkamp and Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30420-309]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u212	I have a question about the second motion, which concerns the specialist detectives. What I think is the problem is that when people press charges, they don't ask for it. In fact, there should be a flag up at that time that there may also be discrimination and that this is the background to an incident, so that it is then taken into account throughout the process. How can specialist detectives help improve that process? I'd like an explanation of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u213	I couldn't have said it better than Mrs Dik-Faber. If there can be discrimination, if someone reports it, then it is often not dealt with. There is often no question as to whether there is evidence and what has happened specifically. So it is true that a flag has to go up and it is necessary to examine exactly what has happened when it comes to a possible form of discrimination. For that, we want a pilot, to try it out. There are good experiences abroad. It doesn't have to be a unit for us, but it does have to be a number of specialized detectives who can go through detectives in order to make it meaningful to file a report.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u214	Thank you. Then I will go to Mrs Van den Hul on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u215	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To give some more coloring and encouragement on the point of the curriculum I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is necessary to increase the reporting and reporting capacity of, inter alia, Lhbti individuals, on discrimination,]] [[Whereas explicit knowledge of (lhbti) discrimination in the police force contributes to the reporting and reporting capacity;]] [[calls on the Government to develop a learning line (lhbti) discrimination and to include it as an integral part of the police academy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul, Mr Özütok, Mr Krol, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen and Mr Bergkamp.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30420-310]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u216	Madam President. I would like to thank the rulers for their reactions and the colleagues for the first-term interruptions. I told you I was here in the special capacity of more or less defendant, by Mrs Bergkamp and others. They said you're in the media debate, so join the Chamber. Actually, I think that's fair. If you open your mouth in the media about something, it is good to also explain in the Chamber and to be open to questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u217	Is this a tip for Mr Baudet and Mr Rutte?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u218	I think that's a nice application.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u219	Isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u220	Oh, yeah. Maybe we can settle that debate here, too. I believe that we have had this debate extensively in the first term. I have no need to go into it again in the second term. I still have a question for the Minister for Justice and Security about the willingness to report violence and discrimination. You saw that there were also declarations made around the Nashville Declaration. We are months later and there is absolutely no clarity for all those people who have filed a complaint. Why does it have to take so long in this kind of business? Isn't that gonna affect the willingness to report it? It is half a day's work to determine whether or not there is criminality. Why not speed it up, just if you want to stimulate filings, that's my final question. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u221	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u222	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna read my motion first. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that journalistic research has shown that so-called "homogeneous singing" is offered and carried out in the Netherlands within different religious communities;]] [[Whereas these indigestible acts seem to be applied in particular to young people who are discovering their sexuality and are in a vulnerable position;]] [[Whereas such acts may lead to physical and psychological damage and are therefore already prohibited in several European countries;]] [[points out that in the Netherlands everyone must be free to be and love who he or she wants;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with a bill aimed at punishing anyone who tries to change, suppress or erase another person's sexual orientation or gender identity,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30420-311]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u223	I wondered how this motion relates to a similar motion tabled yesterday in this area. I do not think it would be very obvious to table the same motion every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u224	That's right. Two motions were tabled yesterday. One asks for research into this phenomenon. The other motion, from D66 and the PvdA, calls for a ban for 18-min if that does indeed occur. In our motion we say: we do not need an investigation; we want a ban for everyone in a broad sense. The motion therefore differs substantially from that. Mr President, thank you. That was also the explanation I wanted to give. I would like to thank the two ministers for their reply. I must say that I still have an unsatisfactory feeling. I know that we are still going to experience terrible incidents every day, and I cannot explain now what concrete, new actions we are going to take to prevent this. I'm glad the Minister has promised a letter. I hope that I can bring it up a little bit so that we may get it before the summer. I'd really like that. I understand that at least there will be more text on the problem analysis, with related concrete actions such as a perpetrator analysis and a structural anchoring of Pink in Blue. Motions have just been tabled on this subject. That text will also contain what we actually agree on now, so that we also know what a monitor would be for next year. But I believe that the Minister and I will be discussing this later. "To be prosecuted," I'll say, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u225	Thank you, Mrs Yeşilgöz. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen on behalf of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u226	Thank you, Mr President. On behalf of the Animal Party, too, I would like to thank both ministers for their reply. I would like to join what the VVD just said. Instead of constantly taking steps back and continuing to talk about what we are actually doing here, we would very much like to see more concrete measures and really decisive policies, so that the acceptance of lhbti'ers in the Netherlands can be raised to a higher level. The Animal Party is going to keep the ministers to their words and keep the finger firmly on the wrist. I have one motion. She's actually loosely based on another motion. Maybe the petitioner recognizes her. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the rainbow flag is an international symbol of equal rights for all regardless of orientation or identity;]] [[Considering that many institutions raised the rainbow flag in response to the Nashville Declaration as support for the Ihbti community;]] [[Considering that the rainbow flag deserves a place in the Chamber of Representatives;]] [[calls on the Presidium to take steps to ensure that the rainbow flag is made visible at an annual time in the Dutch Parliament's plenary session,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Özütok, Mr Van den Hul and Mr Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30420-312]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u227	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both directors for answering the questions. I thought it was a disappointing debate. When it comes to the exclusion and violence against gays and lhbti'ers, you must dare call it man and horse. Otherwise, you won't be able to solve the situation. Mr. Chairman. At the end of the first term, I mentioned the interruption of Mrs Van den Hul's microphone. I understand that there is no amendment at all. So, yeah, a bit of a shame to ask someone about an amendment that doesn't exist. So I'm sure we'll hear more about that at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u228	Thank you, Mrs Agema. Then it's your turn, Mr. Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u229	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister of Education for her commitment to ask the inspection what measures have been taken against schools that do not pay attention to sexual diversity as included in the core objectives. Just so we're clear, when can we see anything about that? Is that in the debate on the State of Education in June? Then there is the extension of the sense of social responsibility to primary education, secondary education and MBO. It's a good thing the government's working on it, but it's still unclear if it's really gonna happen. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Higher Education Act lays down that administrators of education show a sense of social responsibility and refrain from discriminatory statements;]] [[calls on the government to apply this passage on social responsibility to the other education sectors, such as primary and secondary education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30420-313]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u230	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both ministers for answering my questions. That went in a very good atmosphere, I think. I'm very grateful for that. Tolerance cannot be enforced or imposed from above. We're gonna have to fill it out with each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u231	Thank you, Mrs. Geluk-Poortvliet. There are no further speakers. We'll wait until the ministers have all the motions. I give the floor to the Minister for Education, Culture and Science.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u232	Mr. Chairman. Let me say something about the motions on items Nos. 307, 309 and 313. The rest are taken care of by Mr Grapperhaus. The motion in part No. 307 by Mrs Bergkamp to identify obstacles to transgendering on the labour market, I would like to give a ruling to the Chamber. We will take the necessary steps. Then the motion to part No. 309 by Ms Bergkamp and Ms Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, in which they call on the government to give its opinion on compliance with the Coman judgment on an appropriate occasion in the EU. It is just a matter of looking for and fitting the opportunity that is best for this and which Council is best suited to that. I would also like to give this motion a ruling on Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 313 by Mr Van Dijk. I'd like to ask him to hold that motion. After all, I have already promised to explore whether it should be for the MBO myself. You'll get a letter about that before the summer. At the moment we are also making an inventory of whether this is possible and desirable in primary and secondary education. We are going to give you a ruling on this in the letter which has been promised on the strengthening of the powers of inspection. Both parts of education, where it is not yet so, will be discussed in the near future. If you are not satisfied with the steps taken there, you can still put the motion to the vote. Mr. Chairman. Finally, because perhaps I have in addition to my first-term answer on the specific approach...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u233	For a moment about the motion in part No. 313.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u234	I ask Mr Van Dijk to hold on to them until the two letters arrive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u235	I'm gonna think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u236	If Mr Jasper van Dijk does not hold the motion, what is the verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u237	I would now like to advise against the motion, because we really want to explore whether such a committee for primary and secondary education is appropriate. I think the motion is too far ahead of the troops right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u238	Okay, go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u239	I would like to add to my response in the first period on the specific approaches. Since there were questions today about our specific approach to migrant groups, I would like to draw the House's attention to the Alliance Change from within. This is an alliance of Movision, migrant organisations and refugee organisations that focuses on the acceptance of gender equality and lhbti individuals in those circles. There is therefore a specific approach. We'll do it with the joint organizations. That's it for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u240	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u241	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the motion in part No. 306 by Mrs Özütok, Mrs Van den Hul, Mr Krol and Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. That's the one about Pink in Blue. If I may explain that motion in such a way that it says "the government requests to examine how the position of Pink in Blue is adequately secured' instead of "better secured', as it stands now, and, a little further down, that it says "to the legal status of the participants within the network', because that is what it is all about, then as far as I am concerned, it is the Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u242	I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u243	Then the motion to part No. 308, by Mrs Bergkamp, Mrs Den Boer and Mrs Özütok on the pilot or the use of detectives specialized in discrimination. I don't recommend that motion. I have already explained in detail what is being wagered on. I'll be on the motion in a minute. 310 on the lhbti discrimination learning line. Let me just say right away that I'm giving that motion judgment room. I am focusing on the considerable further embedding of the knowledge that I understand very well about this point and also on Pink in Blue. That's the explanation for dissuading this motion. Then there is the motion in part No. 311, by Mrs Yesilgöz. I'd advise against it. I have already said a few things about it in the debate. I've made it clear that there are just lawsuits in criminal law. In addition, there are anti-discrimination articles that already regulate this. We also need to look at how we really organise criminal law in a sharp, effective way at some point. Unfortunately, I have to advise against this motion, however sympathetic I am to strongly reject such methods; let me make that clear. Let's look forward to a court case together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u244	I appreciate that strongly rejecting it. We can't name that enough around here. Now that the motion is superfluous, I would like to know how many convictions there have already been and what article. Then I am reassured that this type of practice is also being addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u245	Then we must start by asking how often this occurs and whether this is being established. That was also the case in the Chamber yesterday. By the way, if we come up with such a bill, the Council of State would say: wait a minute, people, what are we doing? I have shown very clearly and convincingly this afternoon that the Council of State and the Council of Justice, so everyone, is very positive on the subject of hate-sowing, including in the context of lhbti. That is also because people say: yes, we see that as a social phenomenon. So I'm afraid I have to discourage the motion, but I'm certainly willing... Once there's such a court case, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u246	Finally, Mrs Yeşilgöz.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u247	Now that I see so much goodwill from this Minister, I would ask him to contact his colleague again, because the motion by my fellow Members on research has also been discouraged. So we hear from all sides: we're not going to do research, we're not going to ban it, we hope it doesn't happen, and if it does, we hope it will be addressed. And that's not a powerful signal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u248	And you're just gonna put the motion to the vote, Mrs Yeşilgöz?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u249	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u250	I just said that I want to do everything I can to increase the willingness to report. The same applies to these types of crimes, in which people are forced to disclose or change their sexual orientation or gender. In fact, I think that is quite flagrantly contrary to our existing criminal law principles.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u251	Please continue. The final motion, I think. Or have you had it too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u252	I'm through, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u253	You're through.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u254	There's another motion on the flag, but that's not up to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u255	That's right, that motion is addressed to the Presidium.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u256	Does the President already have an opinion on the motion on item No. 312 on the flag?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u257	Mr. Jasper van Dijk, it is customary for the Chamber to vote on the motion first, and that, should the motion be adopted, the Bureau then bows to such a motion. So you will be given an answer to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u258	Then we'll vote first, Mr. Chairman. I'm very curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u259	Me too. Thank you. That concludes this debate. I would like to thank the Minister for Education, Culture and Science and the Minister for Justice and Security, the people in the public gallery and the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u260	The motions tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday. I shall suspend the sitting until 8.05 p.m.
