ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the external trade and development cooperation budget (35300-XVII).
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u2	Today, we will continue with the government's responses. I welcome and give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Madam President. Let me begin by thanking the Chamber for the first-term questions and comments. Before I start the answer, I would like to clarify a number of key points in my policy. Two years after the start of the cabinet, I do so in the context of relevant international developments, which underline the need for this policy. After my opening speech, I will reply to the questions put. My oral answers are arranged according to ten cubes: the ODA budget; emergency aid, including irregular migration; young people, education and employment; root causes and geographical focus; gender equality, women's rights, sexual rights and health rights (SRGR); civil society; climate; support for business and the wider trade agenda; international corporate social responsibility policy (IMVO); Trade policy. And finally, since we are going to have a whole debate on this in the long term: CETA. Should I repeat the points again, Madam President? I hope everyone has the 10 cubes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u4	Yeah, it's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u5	There's 11 of them; that too. Thank you, there in the stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u6	Eleven. Very sharp!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u7	As every year, I would like to emphasise that the United Nations' sustainable development goals, or Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), are the framework for government policy in the area of foreign trade and development cooperation. It's the international agenda. These are the international agreements on the current issues: combating poverty, inequality and climate change and the pursuit of human rights. The SDGs are an inclusive agenda that requires everyone's efforts to leave no one behind; the principle of leave no one behind. Civic movements, young people, civil society organisations, scientists and businesses work together with local and national authorities. We have been working with all these partners for years. Apparently that effort is needed again, because it is storming in the world. The number of conflicts worldwide has tripled over the past decade. The number of refugees and internally displaced persons is part of this. We are now at approximately 70 million. Conflicts are, as you all know, even more complex and long-term in nature. This calls for our support and cooperation. Moreover, we see a number of trends that already play a huge role in fragile regions. Think in particular of the consequences of climate change. Droughts and floods no longer allow crops to be harvested or marketed, hampering access to safe and sufficient food for many people. And this is just the beginning of this century. Especially the poorest, for example in the Horn of Africa and the Sahel regions, are increasingly affected. We are also facing strong demographic growth, particularly on the continent of Africa. The economic growth of the continent is not expected to be able to keep up with these developments. This requires more international action and joint action. Currently, about three quarters of the African population are under 35. In an ageing Europe, it is difficult to imagine that three quarters of the population on a continent are younger than 35. It's good to think about this. In theory, this offers the opportunities of a demographic dividend, but it also increases the challenge of creating high-quality services, such as education and health care and sufficient jobs with perspective. Socio-economic inequality is also increasing worldwide. Where extreme poverty is falling worldwide, it is increasing in Africa. Poverty seems to be becoming an increasingly African phenomenon, as underlined in the recent World Bank report Accelerating Poverty Reduction in Africa, the need to accelerate our action to combat poverty. Global discontent over inequality is also increasing. It brings large groups of people to life. Rage about political marginalisation also contributes strongly to this. The images of the protests of course also enter our living rooms, via TV or internet. In a short time, we saw people in Lebanon, Iraq, Ecuador, Chile and Venezuela on the streets. The protests continue. From the point of view of stability, security and shared prosperity, it is important to be able to react wisely. What also causes unrest is that we see a hardening taking place worldwide. Human rights, specifically women's rights, sexual rights, health rights and the position of the Ihbti community are again under pressure in an increasing number of countries. At the same time, civil society space is declining in a growing number of countries. It is also messing around in the international trading system, and that is, of course, very worrying. We have often debated this with this Chamber, because an open and innovative economy such as the Netherlands benefits from a system of open markets, clear rules of the game that have been agreed internationally and as a level playing field as possible for business. The emerging protectionism and trade conflicts between the US and China, but also the tensions between the EU and the US, are therefore bad news. The Dutch economy needs an internationally functioning system. The dark clouds that linger up there give me cause for concern. I therefore continue to speak with my colleagues and in all discussions, with a long-term perspective, I advocate fair trade rules, a strong multilateral system, access to markets and the maintenance of open markets. But there is still a real danger that the decline of the open trading system will not be reversed and that the gloomy wind of state capitalism and protectionism will blow ever harder through this system. Madam President. We need adequate protection against this wind and we find it in Europe. Because in a world where old certainties seem to disappear, the EU remains necessary and offers new opportunities. We look forward to the plan of the new Commission, led by Ursula von der Leyen. In a world of great power blocks, where there is increasing access to geo-economic power, it is important that the Union not only remains a source of prosperity, stability and security, but also represents a power of values, even when we talk about issues such as sustainability, responsible business and above all respect for human rights. Madam President. We are talking today about the budget and therefore also about the ODA budget: the budget for Official Development Assistance. This cabinet invests in foreign policy. That is also visible in my budget. The complexity of the challenges I outlined earlier shows that a serious commitment remains necessary. That's not a luxury, it's a necessity. This also requires us to release the resources that match that level of ambition. That is why I was encouraged to hear that so many Members of Parliament returned to the 0.7% standard. I therefore take this request of the Chamber very seriously and will return to all the points raised in my oral reply. Mr. Chairman. In this third budget debate, I would like to emphasise that we are working hard at the Ministry on the implementation of the Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation Policy Paper, called Investing in Perspective. We carry out this work in very complex areas, where an explosive cocktail of crises and problems does not always take the efficient and effective implementation of policies for granted. But that is precisely why the work in these areas is necessary, including for the Netherlands. This work takes a long time and a lot of patience. The effective approach to root causes requires dedication, focus and consistency. There's also a risk of setback. We must not be naive about that. We must continue to realise that. Providing perspective to those who need it most is not easy, but it is the right thing to do. We should not only do this work to change things elsewhere in the world. It is also an agenda for the Netherlands. Indeed, the challenges I have just outlined for your Chamber do not have borders and therefore require a cross-border commitment, as you see in the integrated foreign policy or the government's migration agenda. That is why this cabinet stresses in the coalition agreement the importance of connections between the Netherlands and the rest of the world. Our work beyond the borders strengthens our country. It is not for nothing that my memo bears the subtitle Good for the world, good for the Netherlands. Finally, I am glad that we can debate freely in the Netherlands, even if we disagree. I look forward to continuing with the content of all the blocks I have appointed, and to sharing with each other the values we have here in the Netherlands, especially in this Chamber. Then I'm going to continue on the cubes, 11 to be exact.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u8	I see Mrs. Ouwehand. Good morning, fresh and fruity!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u9	Fresh, fruity and slightly wet, but I did get the Minister's introduction. That's how it can be in this digital age. I would like to ask the Minister what exactly is wrong with protecting your farmers, protecting your nature, protecting the climate and protecting people further away by making demands on your own economy and on production standards. What's wrong with saying at the border that countries that don't can't just sell their stuff here? What's wrong with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u10	I see this as more of a rhetorical question. First, I like to get into the cubes. When it comes to trade agreements such as CETA, civil society and the root cause of climate change, I come back to this very open question, which is actually a no-no question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u11	You have a second question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u12	Yes. This is a bad start, because the Minister is setting people up with her warm words about human rights, vulnerable people around the world and the concerns she is concerned about, and the SDG agenda. They're all super important. This Minister speaks warmly about it, which I share and would like to support, but they shrivel at the chilly reality she is laying down here. In her introduction I heard her say: the Dutch economy needs free trade. It looks away from all the disadvantages of free trade for the climate, nature, people worldwide and our own farmers. So those cold words and that cold reality are far more important than those warm words.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u13	Mrs. Ouwehand, the Minister has just begun. She hasn't actually said anything yet! The Court has asked its own questions and put its own contribution throughout the first period. Soon the Minister will answer all these questions. And you know me. I will give you later, if your questions are not answered or if you disagree with the Minister, all the room to interrupt. But the Minister has just begun, so I'd like to give her some space to address some of the issues. Then she can start the debate with you. Do you think that's a good idea of mine?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u14	I think it's a good idea in itself, Mr. Chairman, but I thought the beginning was so bad. On the first specific question, the Minister immediately said: I see it as rhetorical, so I am not going to go into it. I hope you'll help me if the Minister doesn't answer. I hope you will continue to give us interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u15	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u16	And I would like to invite the Minister to answer my question. Then she might be able to fix her initial error.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u17	You know, I find it very interesting how Mrs Ouwehand started now. It was good to be with the APB and to hear a number of group chairmen say that scoreboard policy was no longer used. I'm fine with answering all the questions, provided they're real questions. This was a rhetorical opening of the debate, while I wanted to go into the content. My sentence "I like to respect the content further" was deliberately chosen. That space must be given to the cabinet, because it is about its budget for external trade and development cooperation. Secondly, for the good form: this was not a specific question, but a concatenation of the statements and assumptions made by Mrs Ouwehand. She's asking me to respond to that. I have my entire time to respond to important elements, content, so with facts and from the perception or policy of the cabinet. In fact, I think it is correct that that space should be given. It seems to me that this is a completely different picture of things.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u18	Yes. Mrs. Ouwehand, I think the Minister is saying the same thing I just did. She asks to give her some space, then she goes into all those questions. Then you can still make your point about your own contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u19	Mr President, I will do that, but I must correct it here. I asked a specific question. The Minister spoke in her introduction about protectionism, which is very scary. I asked what's wrong with protecting your own farmers, for example. That was a specific question, so the Minister should not pretend it was a rhetorical question without a specific question to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u20	Good. I'm going to see Mr. Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u21	A justified appeal to talk about the content. I have a substantive question about the introduction. Could it be that there is a blind spot with the Minister and the Ministry about the outcome and the adverse effects of free trade in the Netherlands, and that is why she did not mention it in her introduction? Or was it a conscious choice not to say anything about it in the introduction? Then why did she make that choice? Why does she think that's so unimportant?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u22	First of all, this is interesting. It's an introduction, so we obviously don't have to read the rest of the book anymore. But apart from that, we come back to the issues of trade, trade and trade policy. That's the tenth block; I think that's a good time. And indeed, the Netherlands, this cabinet and previous cabinets attached free trade on the basis of the rules of the game. We also attach importance to quality standards and, for example, we also look at investment tests to protect sensitive sectors, etc., etc., etc. This is a complex debate. You can't take that off with the question of whether or not we're attached to it. This is a much broader story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u23	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u24	The first block, the ODA budget. Mr Bouali, Mr Voordewind, Mr Diks, Mr Alkaya, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Stoffer, Mr Van den Hul and Mr Kuik Of course, I am pleased with that; I said that I see that as support in the back. We have an ambitious agenda, stemming from the government agreement, but also, of course, the priorities set out in the Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation Memorandum. Mrs van den Hul said that the ODA performance under Rutte II was never below 0.6% of GNI. In fact that is true, but there is an important point that I think is also very well known to Mrs Van den Hul. This percentage was due to the high influx of asylum seekers and additional reception costs and could only be achieved by mortgaged on the future. During Rutte II, substantial money was brought out of the long-term budget. So it is true in percentage terms, but in fact it is not what budgetary resources were used for. This would have reduced the ODA rate to 0.48% of GNI by 2020 if policies were consistent. This was corrected by this cabinet by giving a strong boost to ODA, as stipulated in the government agreement. This brings the development cooperation budget for 2021 to 0.7% of gross national income minus 1.4 billion euros. To answer Mr Voordewind's question, this is indeed structural as long as nothing changes. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Weerdenburg of the PVV mentioned an ODA budget of 6 billion. This would mean that the Netherlands would be at the target of 0.7% of GNI. Unfortunately, that is not the case. The ODA budget is EUR 4.5 billion in 2020, and my budget, excluding, among other things, the EU and asylum allocation, has a total of EUR 3 billion. Those are the facts. However, I think that Mrs Van Weerdenburg referred to an addition of ODA and non-ODA from the HGIS note, which indeed amounts to 6 billion in 2020. But the BuHa-OS budget for development cooperation is 3 billion. I would then like to stress that this cabinet has released hundreds of millions more for development cooperation. This has broken the trend of a decrease in the ODA budget. I am almost at the end of this block, Madam President, because it was EUR 1.2 billion. The cabinet then intensifies another 1 billion in this cabinet period. So for the coming year, 2020, there is EUR 504 million more than was foreseen under the previous cabinet for 2020. So we are taking another step towards 0.7%, and the aim is also included in the note. I have heard very clearly from various representatives of your Chamber about the size of the ODA budget and the desire to take further steps towards 0.7%. I also attach great importance to this important international standard and to any follow-up that the cabinet can look at within the national priorities. I also take note of Mr Bouali's suggestion, which I also saw on Twitter..... to visit an OS country or a priority country together with the Minister of Finance. Fortunately, many fellow ministers are already visiting a number of countries in their own capacity. That's usually enriching. It gives new insights, including the role we can play.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u25	Is this the subject of ODA...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u26	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u27	The Minister is right: in Rutte II, we spent even a quarter of the budget on the reception of first-year asylum seekers in the Netherlands. Luckily, we don't have that anymore. You can double that, but I note that about 900 million had to be spent on the reception of first-year asylum seekers. That's pretty much shrunk now, I'm guessing up to 200 million. This means that we have a net 600 million to 700 million more to spend on development cooperation abroad. The Minister's commitment is clear. She wants to grow back to 0.7, just like her fellow Minister of Defense. But what steps does the Minister intend to take himself? We have given the signal that as a Chamber we must assume our own responsibilities. That's what we're gonna do. But what can the Minister do to take those steps to the 0.7? I understand that we will not achieve this 0.7, but we still have one and a half or two years. What can the Minister do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u28	I believe that this is a question that Mr Voordewind knows the answer to, but it is good to make it public. As I said, I will certainly discuss this with my colleagues. We've recorded the parallel with the Defense Department. That was a conscious choice. But there are government-wide agreements, there are government-wide priorities. When I look at everything that is going on in the Netherlands in terms of adjustments, the Climate Agreement, implementation, the dilemmas that many people are facing today, from care to education, I must of course take that into account. That will be the decision of the cabinet. But you can count on my commitment to emphasise the importance of this. For the needs, stability and shared security of the Netherlands, investments will also have to be made elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u29	If I may give the Minister a little help with her argument, I don't know if that's necessary. I'll give her the following. One of the priorities of this cabinet was the flow of migration. If the Minister wants to tackle the root causes of this migration, it is, of course, an argument to say, like the Minister of Defence, to colleagues: think about our security. This is about migratory flows, so this too must be a priority of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u30	I heard you right, Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u31	I believe even I can join the latter. We have already discussed the share of migration within the ODA budget in the discussion of previous budgets. I think that the position of GroenLinks is clear. The Minister states: in fact, the reasoning is that it could have been worse. In principle, she has indicated that she has done her best in her experience to at least raise the budget a little. However, that does not alter the fact that this budget is the lowest that we have seen in 40 or 50 years. That's what worries me. I can imagine something else when there are major cuts in the budget, but at the moment we have a billion surplus...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u32	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u33	I am concerned about how it is now possible that the Minister has not been able to make an additional donation to OS in this situation either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u34	If everything was up to individual bets, it would be a much easier game. But we have a coalition agreement. There's been a deal. We also know that within the coalition agreement, two parties are more inclined to increase the budget for development cooperation, while others may make a different assessment. It's a matter of balance. It is precisely the compromises that we can make with each other that are at stake. Not everything, especially in 2019, is ODA. We are also very committed to private sector financing, social impact financing. If you look at SDG 17, you can see that it is also about all the other possible funding flows. The ODA concept comes from a time when everything depended on a number of countries that did international cooperation. The world has changed completely now. Many of the low-income countries have become middle-income countries. It is precisely there that the opportunities for change and transformation lie, through a different commitment, such as access to knowledge technology and the private sector's commitment, and by stimulating the local economy. So ODA is important, but it's always catalytic; it's never the whole story. Far from it. It is now a very small percentage of total funding flows in the field of international cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u35	With the answer given by the Minister now, I would have expected you to have added another note indicating that you will now use the ODA budget as a kind of multiplier, so to ensure a multiplier effect. Then you should have a completely different view of development cooperation. I honestly don't even know if I'm against it. I might even like to think about that, but of course this is something other than what we have been going on with your letter Investing in Perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u36	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u37	I really see a different choice in that. If you want to leverage the ODA budget to detach other funding, I would like much more and more information on that. So I am really curious when the Minister will send new information to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u38	No, the note is very clear. In every AO and in every debate, including the note itself, I have said that ODA is catalytic. I fear that this has been the case in the development cooperation sector for many years. Emergency is one-on-one. Everything else you do happens together with other partnerships, with local governments, authorities, private sector funding. It's almost always a lever. That's Paris, Accra and Busan's agenda. About Busan, I've helped to negotiate with myself. This is really about aid effectiveness, i.e. the relevance and effectiveness of development cooperation. It's all about leveraging ODA, because otherwise we won't get there. From billions to trillions, it's really not gonna happen to ODA. It's everything else. That is the essence of SDG 17. My note has been hung from SDG 17. So there's no room at all, far from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u39	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u40	Then I move on to the second heading, emergency aid and irregular migration, Madam President. As a result of persistent conflicts, many people are living more often and also for a long time in humanitarian conditions. Some of your members, of course, referred to this. This is worrying. That is why this is a priority issue, including for this cabinet. We pay attention not only to reconstruction when possible, but also to new components, such as access to psychosocial assistance and mental health care in crisis situations. Through this attention to these aspects of care, we have managed to ensure that mental health and psychosocial support, i.e. mental health care and psychosocial assistance, are now internationally recognised as part of a basic package of emergency aid. This was the subject of the conference we held this year in October with the World Health Organisation, the International Red Cross, the Red Crescent, many other partners and, above all, experts. Thanks to the Netherlands, 100,000 people in the most vulnerable situations received access to justice in 2019. You may recall the conference we held in February on SDG 16, access to justice and the importance of the rule of law, the rule of law. By 2020, we will double the number to 200,000 people and we will strive to ensure that at least 50% of them are women or girls. In this context, the Netherlands also has a multi-annual partnership with UNHCR, UNICEF, the International Labour Organisation, the World Bank and the International Financing Corporation for reception in the region, aimed at Lebanon, Iraq, Jordan, Ethiopia, Uganda, Kenya, Sudan and Egypt. These are all forms where we also ask our partners to work together, to make choices and to provide the expertise in their field, depending on their mandate. So we are promoting cooperation and we hope that this will also produce efficiency, a better result and an ideal impact. Madam President. Mrs Kuik of the CDA gave concrete examples of how people have become victims of trafficking in human beings. These are confrontational and indeed poignant examples of people whose hopes for opportunities often end up after a long, difficult journey in disillusionment and often death. Like Mrs. Kuik, these stories affect me personally. Unfortunately, these are not exceptions. The International Organisation for Migration estimates that 80% of Nigerian women arriving in Italy via Libya are victims of trafficking in human beings. On the basis of what we know, therefore, the statistics are already so shocking that I fully understand and take on board Mrs Kuik's appeal. I also very much agree with the CDA that development efforts are useful in combating and preventing these crimes at different points of the migration route. This is also part of the government's commitment through BHOS in the framework of the Together Against Human Trafficking programme. In addition, in West Africa, the Horn of Africa, Iraq and Afghanistan, we sometimes also work together with returned migrants, who are unfortunately experienced experts, on the basis of their sad experience. So we are working to raise awareness of the risks that potential migrants face in order to fall into the hands of human traffickers. We also work with the countries of origin. Two weeks ago, for example, a Nigerian delegation visited to discuss this issue precisely, to exchange experiences and, of course, to promote cooperation. It is a good example of how the Netherlands works with a "source country" of trafficking in human beings to tackle this problem, including the use of development cooperation funds, but also, of course, through the investigation services, and with the main role of the Ministry of Justice and Security. Finally, Mr President. The Netherlands also pays attention to the victims of trafficking in human beings in its efforts. Re-integration projects by the International Organisation for Migration, IOM, in countries of origin, for example, also provide psychosocial assistance. You should not think of a luxury situation. It's often training those people's first shelter. That's how people know how to deal with someone who's traumatized so they can refer. So these aren't luxury situations. It's skills that are shared. This often appears in a "training of the trainers" programme. We support these projects. That side is of course extremely important, to get people to talk, to get them to talk, to make sure they can express themselves. Mr Weverling of the VVD asked for cooperation with the countries of origin of people who are not entitled to stay in the Netherlands. Insufficient or less than inadequate cooperation from a number of countries of origin on the readmission of their own nationals is, of course, worthy of our attention. The cabinet is very clear about that. But there are differences between countries and the quality of their cooperation. For example, there are countries of origin which have no fundamental objections or obstacles to the forced return of their own nationals. They cooperate in establishing identity and nationality. That is, of course, extremely important. That's actually the way it's supposed to be. Indeed, the broad bilateral relationship that the Netherlands has with a number of countries is being exploited to promote return. This is done along the lines of the integrated migration agenda. It is precisely by looking at this relationship with a country of origin that we are also looking at the possibilities of exerting pressure and making a difference in what we expect and can legitimately demand. For example, a number of bilateral and EU visits are planned over the next six months to some of the countries with which we clearly need to discuss the readmission of own nationals on an urgent basis. It is, of course, the case that the stakes cannot immediately be put at the same level as the result we can expect. That is why we have opted for more-for-more cooperation and thus a so-called less-for-less approach. We must then see what is customised and what the desired result is going to be. When you look at, for example, the sensitivities of countries and what they respond to most quickly, you see that it is often about visa measures, landing rights and access to finance, large funding. Unfortunately, in many countries, the government will not be alarmed if we say that there will be no ODA tomorrow. This will not lead to any policy change. In fact, we don't give money to countries like that. For example, we support organisations or civil society on certain issues, such as human rights or access to education. So, unfortunately, that is often not where the political sanction is. I must give that to Mr Weverling. So there are other measures, but we are looking at them and discussing them. Secretary of State Mrs Broekers-Knol, Mr Blok of Foreign Affairs and myself regularly look at what we want to achieve by country, how it can be done, and where our best resources are. Then I shall continue with Mr Bouali. He stressed the importance of the multilateral channel in the UN in a broad sense, but he also gave an example of the Middle East Peace Process, the deployment through UNRWA, which is still supported by this cabinet, education and care for Palestinian refugees. Mr Stoffer of the SGP also drew attention to Palestinians, but I do not know whether he said "Palestinian refugees" or "Palestinian civilian population." It was the civilian population, I hear him now. Among other things, Mr Stoffer said, if I am right, that he should not be the victim of the management failure of the management of UNRWA, the UN refugee organisation for Palestinian refugees. The cabinet is unanimous in its agreement with this. It is good to continue to recognise that UNRWA provides education and basic health care for Palestinian refugees in the five mandate areas of the organisation. As you know from the many cabinet responses, we still think so. The organization's financial need is acute. Salaries are not expected to be paid by the end of this month. The Secretary-General and the Tunisian Foreign Minister have written two separate letters to the Cabinet to underline the high need once again. As you know, I have held the payment to UNRWA for reports of abuses in senior management. Since August, the Netherlands has therefore played an exciting role in the UN's independent investigation and the necessary management improvements at UNRWA. In the meantime, on the basis of the initial conclusions of the study on the senior management of UNRWA, the Commissioner-General has resigned. The same goes for everyone else. One or two were fired. All those involved are no longer in the organization. The Secretary-General has also committed himself to reforms and has appointed an Acting Commissioner-General, who has developed an in-depth management improvement plan. This improvement plan, including hard monitoring arrangements, is the subject of this week's talks between donors and UNRWA at the half-yearly meeting of the organisation's advisory body. The Netherlands, together with similar donors, will study the results of this consultation at the end. When deciding on funding in 2019, I together with other donors and the EU weigh the improvement plan. I will inform you more about this in accordance with agreements. I would like to point out that the UNRWA cabinet treats the same thing as all other UN organisations. I refer to the environmental organisation UNEP and UNAIDS, where reports on abuses have also led to the retention of funding and a resumption when the situation itself was addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u41	Were you done with this part?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u42	Well, I was almost there. I have a point for Mr Voordewind on the situation in Lesbos, the Greek islands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u43	Can you finish that first?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u44	Yes, thank you. The cabinet shares the concerns expressed by Mr Voordewind about the distressing situation in the camps on the Greek islands. The Netherlands has repeatedly called on the Greek authorities to improve the reception situation both bilaterally and at European level. I believe that Mr Voordewind himself has been able to make a number of visits. We have, of course, also stressed every time that it is important that the EUR 2.4 billion in financial support granted to Greece through the EU is actually used. We have also provided Dutch expertise. My colleague, Secretary of State Broekers-Knol, has also recently been able to visit the Greek reception and identification service. She made blankets available. This, of course, shows how painful it is within the European border area. We welcome the measures taken by the new Greek cabinet. This will see how asylum and return procedures can be improved in order to run the whole asylum chain properly. It's too early to judge. We are in favour of these measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u45	I actually have two questions for the Minister on this subject. If you look at the financing of UNRWA, my first question is, in fact, what are the tough conditions for taking that step or not, if that step is taken in the near future. That was my first question. Shall I agree with the second, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u46	Well, you're busy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u47	I have also referred to alternatives, such as the Augusta Victoria Hospital in East Jerusalem, where the Palestinian people in particular are being helped. Of course, that offers a nice alternative. I am very curious whether the Minister is also looking at such alternatives, where at least there is the necessary aid for the Palestinian people. 'Cause I think we're agreed that it shouldn't be forgotten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u48	The first is that the conditions are very clear in the sense of a reaction. We want to know what happened to the follow-up to the investigation that took place. In the meantime, all those involved have quit. As part of the broad management culture that emerged from the organisation, we asked what the management improvement plan is. We're gonna monitor that plan. In principle, with the departure of those directly involved and a hard plan by the Secretary-General and his personal commitment, there is no other situation than UNEP or UNAIDS, for example. All successive Cabinets have supported UNRWA since it was founded. It is a mandated organisation in the context of the Middle East Peace Process that looks at access to education and basic health care for Palestinian refugees. It is not the entire population of the West Bank that you are talking about. The cabinet intends, in principle, to resume funding, as was also budgeted, depending on the outcome of this week's meeting, feedback and reporting. The Chamber will be informed of this. There are no new plans. Actually, you're asking for an alternative to UNRWA. That is a political decision and there is no support for it within the EU. The cabinet has chosen to continue to support UNRWA. But we have a demand that leadership should show the right example and that the money be used properly. As soon as there are abuses, we'll be the first to ring the bell. We are, by the way, the only country that has stopped the regular contribution. All the other EU countries had already paid or continued funding. We're the only country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u49	When I hear it like that, the Minister's assessment is that it's just getting started again. That would be nice in itself. If all kinds of good conditions are met, it can just progress. But of course you can also have a situation in which it is different, whether directly or perhaps later. It'll leave a population like that without any care. That's actually my question. Suppose it can't make any progress in the near future, or if it does in the future, is the Minister prepared to look at the alternatives that exist? And this is indeed in the West Bank, but we understood that people from Gaza, for example, are being helped there. They're just being taken there. Is the Minister also looking more broadly, to keep the leverage on it so that we can act properly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u50	Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, In any case, this applies to any organisation: bilateral, local, national. We have demands, expectations and a responsibility towards the taxpayer. That's very clear. Those organizations must feel the same way. Secondly, I think that the Dutch voice and very critical look have been heard very clearly. We expressed them at all levels, together with Prime Minister Rutte in the bilateral meeting with the Secretary-General when we were there in September. The plan must be measurable. However, 80% of UNRWA's funding is paid by teachers, doctors and nurses. The second is that UNRWA, I believe, partly bears the costs of Augusta Victoria, because many Palestinian refugees with that status go to Augusta Victoria precisely because there is a financing arrangement. I think your suggestion is very good, but it's not or-or. I'll take it with me in the wider weighting. It is indeed a special hospital in a very nice place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u51	It's a good thing the Minister stopped the aid. We are going to see how things are going to go on, because the people in Gaza and the West Bank naturally need education. It is a good thing that the Minister lays down firm conditions. My question is about Lesbos. The minister says that a lot of money has already gone to Greece, 2.4 billion. That is true, including in the context of debt relief. What can the Netherlands do, not from ODA funds, but from non-ODA funds, to give these people a little support for the winter?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u52	I welcome this question. We've been able to change this before. Indeed, the cabinet and I maintain that there is so much money available for Greece that it does not feel right that we should go after it with small jars. But I very much appreciate the gesture made by my colleague Mr Broekers-Knol to make blankets available, for example. It's gonna be a very cold winter. Those who can do that may all go there in the summer, but in winter it is very cold in those places, especially when you have to sleep in a tent. I'm going to look at a limited, almost symbolic contribution from the non-ODA funds. I have a very small pot. I'd be happy to make that commitment. My expectation is that it goes to something that is not construction, but for example to psychosocial aid. You have many beautiful organisations, NGOs, also from the Netherlands, who do good work with game therapy, music therapy and the like, which can make a huge difference with a very small amount of money. But as I say, it is a symbolic contribution towards the end of the year, because it is so important. It is a reaching hand of, I think, many people in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u53	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u54	Then this was my cup...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u55	First of all, Mr Weverling, who has just, I say, been awake. But you were awake a long time ago; I saw it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u56	Yeah, absolutely. Good morning!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u57	Good morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u58	I want to talk about CERF. You didn't make that specific. Will you come back to that later? You said you'd be talking in the next week or month. As far as you are concerned, this answer is satisfied?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u59	I have named CERF in the written questions, but I can also say it very briefly here. What is called "burden sharing" is a standard theme for us, so many more donors also have to do their part, in this case pecunia, money. We are indeed an important donor, but we also believe in the flexibility of CERF. It gives a lot of returns, because you can react immediately. The UN can be there and often also finance local organisations or NGOs. So it's some kind of first firefighter. That's what we pay for. But in all my travels I name this, and so do other rulers. For example, not only to the Gulf States, but to begin with, we say to the richer Gulf States: we do this and expect everyone to actually make a proportionate contribution. The alternative, which has also occurred in this debate, to do less because we do so much and others do less, is not an option for us. We believe in a broad, multilateral commitment. But I hear your point and we do it every day. It is true that, for example, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, if I remember correctly, I do not have it with me right now, but I can confirm that in the second term, through the UN, we are making an earmarked contribution which is many times higher than the Dutch. That's going to go up to half a billion dollars.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u60	I'm not saying there should be less money. I am concerned that we are the third donor in the world and that this is not entirely proportionate and that other countries simply need to bring in more money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u61	Yeah, once.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u62	I just want firm commitments on that. Anyway, I'm just gonna wait and see what you're gonna come back with in December when you have those conversations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u63	We have these conversations all the time. So there isn't one highlight. There is indeed a CERF advisory body, but there is not one moment you say: this is a great success. It is, of course, also up to the Secretary-General and the UN Deputy Secretary-General, Mark Lowcock, to continue to do so. We are contributing and we are participating, but the UN itself must continue to deliver this message very hard. That is also a demand, a message, which we always send to the UN.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u64	All right, then the point of the countries which refuse to take back nationals who are not entitled to asylum in the Netherlands. I have asked a lot of questions about them and they have not been answered in writing. These questions concern the budget available and the countries in which that budget has already been committed. You're talking about cabinet-wide deployment. I understand all that. You have a responsibility in it, too. When is it before you reach the border?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u65	I understand your question very well, but as far as many countries are concerned where the return is bad, I should like to discuss this with my colleague Mr Broekers-Knol in the second term so that we do not deteriorate diplomatic efforts by discussing a name and shame list here. I have a list in front of me, but with a number of countries where the return is poor, it's not even an OS relationship. So then the drug is also not usable. That is why I deliberately talked about customisation and a number of measures that are most effective. Governments with whom you already have a difficult conversation at all, I fear do not fear the withdrawal of 1 million ODA from a non-governmental organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u66	Okay, I'll just wait for the second term, where it's mainly about what budget is available and which countries are already committed. I understand your story about the ODA money, but the point is that it's a cabinet-wide commitment and that we need to make it clear where the border lies for us. It is not for nothing that we have put this together in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u67	The Minister will return to that in the second term. It's very sensible, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u68	I want to go back to Greece for a little while. We have just heard the Minister say that the cabinet is in favour of the announced measures of the new Greek Government. One of the measures recently announced and also approved by the Greek Parliament is the establishment of closed detention centres where migrants can also be detained for a longer period of time. I would very much like to hear from the Minister whether this is also part of the measures which the cabinet is looking forward to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u69	I would like to come back to this in the second term. This shift is very much in line with my colleague, Mr Broekers-Knol,'s field of principle. Looking at Libya, for example, we have followed the UNHCR's voice and have spoken out against detention as a form of migration management, but I really need to consult with my colleague on this and otherwise I will come back to this in writing. At least I understand the question. Mrs Van den Hul said that the budget for reception in the region accounted for 22% of the ODA budget. Our calculation is that the budget for reception in the region and migration cooperation 2020 is 162 million, which is about 5% of my budget and a smaller percentage of the ODA budget, but if there is anything else that needs to be answered in writing, I am happy to do so. In any case, we are not going to reach 22%. Then I come to talk about young people, education and employment. As we have changed many times, we are looking at improving the perspective for young people. As far as I am concerned, education and work are extremely important. Entrepreneurship is also part of this and getting the opportunity to develop yourself, build a life and provide for your own basic needs, but also to combat exclusion or social inequality, preventing young people from opting for alternatives such as crime or risky irregular migration. Mr Voordewind asked about the effects of the Challenge Fund on young people susceptible to migration. This fund is indeed putting forward a perspective by helping young people to earn a decent and stable income. In particular, it is a question of helping the group of young people between 15 and 35 to set up a business, with or without training, from the city or in rural areas, because it is precisely with the use of technology that rural areas offer a great deal of new opportunities. Of course, the Challenge Fund wants to focus on youth employment. In doing so, it will focus on the taking and investment of own resources in order to benefit from this fund. It's not about each individual transaction being the same. For interventions in difficult circumstances, a low own contribution can be accepted for compensation through a high contribution to initiatives elsewhere. The funds generated by private parties, financial institutions or philanthropists can also be contributed. The first call there was asked by Mr Voordewind is in Uganda and is in preparation. It focuses on ICT, tourism and agriculture. Those are the most promising sectors, I'm told, in Uganda. It is being opened up to natural women and men, of course also in view of the gender wish we have. The first call on these themes will be opened this year and we will get started in the first half of next year. Other countries in the focus region will also have the opportunity to participate in a call in the coming years. In any case, we are already thinking of Nigeria and Jordan before 2020. So you look at the broad optics again. The Addressing Root Causes, addressing the root cause programme ARC, which Mr Voordewind also requested, is aimed at addressing root causes of armed conflict, instability and irregular migration. The projects under this grant tender have a variable project duration with a small part ending in 2020/2021. I hope that Mr Voordewind will receive this. A large part of the 23 A midterm review will take place in early 2020. The findings will be taken into account in the decision-making of future programmes together with the findings and recommendations of the IOB evaluation Less Pretentious, More Realism, which we have recently discussed and which has been shared with the Chamber. So we are looking at the interfaces between ARC and the new Challenge Fund to offer as many young people as possible a perspective, but they each have their own perspective. Mrs Kuik also asked about the commitment for refugees in the region similar to the Challenge Fund. We are, of course, looking at improving reception in the region, job opportunities, education, and, of course, protection of women and children against sexual violence and exploitation and access to psychosocial aid. The programmes are running, but as you know from your work visits it is a very poor consolation. It remains very difficult to create access to employment in the host countries. There are a lot of legal measures, but most governments can hardly keep their heads above water. It's really hard to make that cover. Many refugees still work in the informal sector, which in turn causes a lot of tension with the host community. So we have to keep a close eye on that. But there is an opportunity for Dutch expertise. It's being deployed, too. Of course, you are all familiar with Wageningen's many programs. They are used in Jordan to promote the agricultural sector and they want to look at the balance between refugee and host community so that both parties can get to work. This is better for social cohesion, especially when you look at the long duration of care, which is often unfortunately expected due to the lack of political solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u70	Were you done with this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u71	I have one final point from Mrs Kuik; it is very short. She also rightly mentioned how we can introduce MBO students from the Netherlands and use their knowledge, also in order to create, track and promote the support base in the Netherlands. That interaction could be so beautiful. It is very obvious indeed. For years, universities and scientists, the knowledge institutions, both on trade and OS missions, have been able to find their way. We really want to look even more closely at how we can involve the professionals in our field of work, precisely because professionals are needed in the developing countries and there is a great lack of them. It has not been easy, as Mrs Kuik knows from our written reply. But I'm gonna take another look at it with the bet that something comes out. It is less direct on my territory and more on OCW's, but I really want to get to work on it, because I totally agree with the commitment of the question. It's a huge opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u72	I would like to come back to the previous point: stability in the region and helping host communities. My question was how we can support the stability of governance there. I gave the example that, if there is such a large group, you already have a very big problem with garbage. We are very useful logistics in this respect. To what extent can we focus on promoting our administrative expertise to that community?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u73	This actually runs very nicely through the Association of Dutch Municipalities. He offers that a lot. That also works very well, because a municipality would like to talk to a municipality. They often have the same problems: too little budget, too slow capital. It's very recognizable. It is therefore also credible and often more effective. So we do a number of programs through them, but these municipalities identify them themselves. That's the way it's supposed to be, I guess. Then you are indeed talking about various things, from garbage collection to electricity supply and so on. These are very good and concrete forms of cooperation. Then I move on to heading four: root causes and geographical focus. The geographical focus of Dutch development cooperation is indeed shifting to the fragile and nearby regions of the Sahel, the horn of Africa, the Middle East and North Africa. It happens for a reason. We see, of course, in the statistics that much of the remaining extreme poverty in the world is in these regions, even aggravated by the conflict situations. Where progress has been made, there is another massive relapse, with new children unable to go to school, new poverty and hunger. In doing so, we are going to spend a third more in the focus regions, a shift over the full breadth of the policy. Mr Weverling of the VVD and Mr Van Haga asked about this shift. I can say that the intended increase of a third in this cabinet period is within reach. We're always a little busy with an oil tanker. We've got the course now. We're adjusting. That is the direction in which we use all the instruments, but you don't do that overnight. We must also bring countries and partners. Care must be taken. It is not easy, for example, to set up programmes in the Sahel countries of Niger, Mali and Burkina Faso, where more than 2 million people have already been fleeing violent violence. You're following what's going on. I know that Mr Van Haga has experience in those countries. We all follow it. These are difficult working conditions. Even opening an embassy office is quite an investment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u74	You can finish this first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u75	Okay. I was impressed by Mr Weverling's arrival at the interrupting microphone. At the same time, I would also like to stress that bilateral development cooperation is not entirely limited to the focus regions. That's not the policy. Our thematic objectives require a strong commitment outside the focus regions. Private sector development, for example, is not limited to focus regions. This would decimate the involvement and opportunities for the Dutch private sector. I do not believe that that was the impression of the motion. Climate change is also an outstanding cross-border problem. So we focus on where the effect can be greatest, especially in the case of mitigation, but also in the case of adaptation. We discussed civil society extensively earlier this month. The scope for civil society is not limited to focus regions alone. We also finance regional or global programmes, with some of the funds falling down in other countries as well. I have also explicitly appointed this in the AO and the VAO. I say this in response to Mr Van Haga's question. He asked why the State's budget also uses human rights through human rights organisations in Chile and Mexico. That goes through the Human Rights Fund. That is ODA and non-ODA, both through Mr Blok and myself. So there are themes. Human rights are also something we naturally look at from a global perspective. Then it may be that the choice is made through the Human Rights Fund, in which the embassy is very much involved, to say that something else is happening on a small scale. But we're holding on to the direction of the shift. Of course, a UNICEF or a Gavi or a Global Partnership for Education, which we also finance, make independent choices. De facto, of course, you have a programme development in countries that are not necessarily focus regions. That's, I think, the very nice weighing. The same applies, of course, to the new framework published for civil society in early December. So we move and we focus. We are going to achieve the intention to spend one third of bilateral aid more in the focus regions. At least that's the stakes. The total number of countries will decrease, but this will not happen overnight. In doing so, we are implementing the motions tabled by Mr Bouali, Mrs Becker and Mr Van Haga. Finally, Mrs Diks made a passionate plea for the use of cash transfers. We're familiar with the benefits and the disadvantages. It is increasingly being used by multilateral organisations. There are also a number of programmes that we co-finance, but which are implemented by the World Bank, because they are technology and good monitoring. You need a hugely good system for it, but the results are bad. I recall the Productive Safety Net Programme in Ethiopia, which has good evaluations. I do not want to go further in the technique of cash transfers, but they are used and we support programmes according to our own priorities and what quality is offered. This is often done through World Bank, UNICEF or UNHCR, because it is difficult and because of course you also want to mitigate all the risks of abuse. This was point four.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u76	Mrs Diks is on the interrupting microphone, but I had previously sent Mr Weverling away, so he gets the floor first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u77	Let's talk about the focus. Are you saying that before the end of this period of government, you want the budget we spend to be a third instead of the 25% that it still comes to?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u78	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u79	So we're gonna see another 8% shift over the next year and a half?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u80	That's the bet, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u81	And money to China, our economic competitor, do you find explainable?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u82	What money, Madam President?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u83	Mr. Weverling?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u84	I asked you to do that. In the written reply, you said that money is also going to China. I find it quite difficult to explain that an economic competitor is also receiving financial support from us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u85	I shall come back to that in second place. In all the hustle and bustle I don't have the literal question and answer for the glasses either. Basically, no. We do not regard China as a developing country, contrary to how China considers itself. I have to see what kind of funding might have ended up there and for what purpose. I have to see what the facts are, but no, it's not a developing country for the Dutch government. This was also the case in the WTO, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u86	Then the Minister will come back to that later. Mrs. Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u87	I will come back to the written answers to my questions about cash transfers. It is very positive that you are positive about this. It's also clear it's working. It's complicated and it sounds a little crazy, but it just works really well. We know that from all kinds of research. I specifically intended this question to see if we could also use cash transfers to help the poorest. In the response you indicate that you are interested in this, because you already support this in a number of programmes for Syrian refugees in Lebanon, Iraq and Jordan. But, of course, those are not the poorest. That's all emergency aid. Cash transfer is another variant.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u88	You can do that in Dutch, right? Cash, is that what this means? This I say for the people who don't...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u89	Cash transfer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u90	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u91	I don't know if that's faster, but you're right. We had imposed ourselves to speak Dutch here. My question to the Minister is whether she would like to think with us about whether it would be wise to start a pilot, including with Dutch money, especially in focus regions. I think that could really help.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u92	I've just indicated that we can investigate anything. By the way, Madam President, 'cash' has de facto become a Dutch word, but 'cash' can indeed be used. I shall come back to this in the second term, but I would like to say that we prefer to do this through the World Bank and through the large organisations. Because you really need a lot of technology. There's got to be a big plan. You need to connect with shopkeepers. To give you an example: in Lebanon or Iraq, the refugee gets to be among the poorest; the status there doesn't matter, therefore, a ticket allowing them to buy certain goods from certain shopkeepers. So they have control over which store, but they can't just shatter everything. So there is a very tight framework. To start doing pilots on our own, while we have good programs that can be run on a scale... Then I'd rather go for the scale and effectiveness, and also the checkability, of the World Bank. That is where we can talk about what went wrong if something goes wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u93	Mrs. Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u94	Have I lost my interruption, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u95	No...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u96	Just checking! Oh, you can't do that anymore, of course. Let's see! Thank you. But as far as I'm concerned, it's still a little too much in that emergency response story. That's really not what I mean. I would find it interesting to see if the Netherlands can also contribute. I very much agree with you that this may have to be done through the World Bank or all kinds of other parties. We must not, of course, do this ourselves with a very small example of practice, so that 'pilot' will no longer be the right word. But I think it could be very positive if we look with the World Bank to see to what extent the Netherlands can contribute to this. Then we really need to support the poorest, especially in the focus regions that are also within your own policies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u97	I may not have mentioned it in the hurry, but our response is certainly not just about refugee versus non-refugee. In Ethiopia, it's just with the poorest people in the country. So we're already doing this. The issue is more whether we can do more about it. That's what the discussion with the World Bank is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u98	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u99	But thank you for the interest in the "transfer of cash." Gender equality, women's rights and SRGR, heading 5. I think it's a sine qua non that we're investing in women's and girls' rights. That is investing in human rights, in development and in economic growth. As I often say, although you would not be in favour of it, it is still a very bad economic idea to oppose it. Many countries are also committed to this, for several reasons. As far as we are concerned, it is a human right and fundamental to building and social cohesion in a country. Worldwide, companies, parliaments and peacekeeping missions are also more effective and successful in their decision-making when women are fully involved and sufficiently represented. But of course that is still not always the case. As Mr Bouali and I believe Mrs van den Hul have pointed out before, we are constantly facing a conservative trend in the other direction. This means that we must remain vigilant, alert. My predecessor, Lilianne Ploumen, had of course already set up a very nice movement, in translation "She decides," SheDecides. Fortunately, I am also a proud fellow member and champion of that. We continue to draw on this with funding and commitment. What's at stake? These are the sexual rights and health rights of women and girls. They are once again influenced by what I politely want to call a conservative agenda, which looks at restricting access to education on their sexual rights and health rights, including access to safe abortions when the woman or the girl herself considers it necessary. Of course, that's a difference. In countries where this movement has made an advance, we also see an increase in the number of women who die in an illegal abortion and we see an increase in dangerous pregnancies, and-and-and-and-and-an. The statistics speak for themselves, and we continue to draw them. That is why you can also see that SRGR, as a theme throughout the budget, has a clear place to go. We are also looking at continuous cooperation and cooperation with civil society, from the Netherlands but also, of course, in the countries where we work. I also work with my colleague from the Ministry of Education, Culture and Science on the international conferences, the Women's Status Commission, the Beijing Declaration and the Platform for Action. It is becoming very strange to translate all these conferences, Madam President. I don't think anyone can follow this. But so it is; it is a neat translation. We will continue to do so. I have one last point under this heading. On behalf of a group of 55 countries, as you know, I made an important statement on this subject in New York in September. Together with Finland and South Africa, at the recent conference on population and development, we also put forward another theme: a voice, a plea and funding. That's still incredibly important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u100	I said the day before yesterday at the first term that we welcome the Minister's commitment to SGD 5, equality between men and women, boys and girls. Now Beijing+25 is getting closer. Next year, that's 25 years ago. I would like to ask the Minister specifically if she is going to join with the Minister of OCW in order to achieve those objectives in that Platform for Action, which is what it is called "sorry." How real does the Minister consider the chance that the Netherlands will meet these objectives? There are still a number of wishes to be met in terms of equality between men and women.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u101	I have a smile, as you can understand. We are also, of course, looking forward to the vote next week, for example on the ESC opinions on certain issues on which my colleague is still talking to the Chamber. I think that's incredibly important. You may have heard me at Buitenhof. I know from my own international experience that a number of measures can be very beneficial. From my cabinet responsibility, I will always work with my colleague, but from my first responsibility, of course, I am dealing with Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. I sometimes bring the mirror from abroad to the Netherlands by saying: we think we have a lot of work to do, which is also the case, but let us also see how we can continue to promote the SDGs and the status of women themselves here. But my colleague is the move and we are working closely together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u102	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u103	Then I'll move on to block six, civil society. Earlier this month, we discussed the importance of civil society, the role of civil society organisations on the ground, as it is called, in the field, in very difficult situations in achieving the sustainable development goals and addressing the root causes of poverty and inequality. They are important partners of Dutch policy and will always be. They also have a watchdog function, especially national or local civil society organisations. They're incredibly important. They're alerting. They let us know things. It is also a good mirror that shows how things actually go in the countries where we want to make a difference with Dutch taxpayers' money. So we need to talk and we need to be talked to all the time. It is about coherence in our policies. On Mr Weverling's question, whether we should want civil society in the Netherlands, perhaps using Dutch funding, to criticise the government, I dare say: we are not afraid to contradict Dutch policy. It keeps us sharp. It is healthy and it also keeps the debate alive in the Netherlands. In the end, we are all in favour of pursuing the right policies and achieving maximum results. Mrs Van den Hul asked if I would like to make a commitment to united EU countries to understand more about the limitation of the area of civil society. This is already happening. I dare to say that. The embassies have this task, and that is what we expect, because they are, of course, a mirror when it comes to what happens to civil society organisations, especially on certain issues. They are the canary in the coal mine in terms of the broader human rights story. They work together with similar EU countries and the EU representative. I will mention a few examples: joint visits to lawsuits, visits to imprisoned human rights representatives and attend meetings of civil society organisations. In Nairobi, the embassy organised a special meeting for lhbti representatives from different countries. They could only do that because the embassy organized it and offered security and security. They are sometimes very small things, but they are extremely important, as we know. We are, of course, also raising these issues at political level. We do so on the highest level and on a continuous basis. It is also eventually weighed in the funding options that we may have. I am almost at the end of this heading, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u104	Yeah, I'm fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u105	We are working to get a guide to EU directives for human rights representatives. It shall be drawn up with the Commission. That's what we're looking at. I agree with Mrs Kuik............................................................................................................................................................... Mrs Kuik asked for flexibility in the event of sudden emergencies. Unfortunately, in many of those countries, you often have a sudden emergency. We already support seven emergency funds for specific groups of civil society, such as Front Line Defenders and Protecting Belief Fund. These funds are of course there for people who do not speak Dutch, so they must also understand what it is about. It stands for "defenders of the first line" and "the fund for the protection of faith." They are fast, flexible and efficient, and offer professional support to civil society organisations under attack. The Human Rights Fund and the Liability Fund, the Accountability Fund, are also open for support to these organisations. The Policy Framework Reinforcement Social Centre Field also offers flexibility for this type of emergency aid. I don't see why we need to put this up with another fund, because then we'll go back to fragmentation and parallelity. I think there's a lot of space. The Ministry and the embassies are really watching. You can assume that if the need is for the man, there can be a quick switch. That's a bet I'm willing to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u106	I mentioned Omar Shakir's case the day before yesterday in my first term. He was director of Human Rights Watch in Israel and Palestine. He was deported by the Israeli authorities last Tuesday. I spoke to him yesterday. He was here in the Chamber visiting. I have asked questions about this with a number of colleagues in the Chamber. The cabinet answers that it recognises the risk that civil society organisations will no longer be able to express themselves critically in Israel and perhaps become more reluctant to address companies about their responsibility and their contribution to possible human rights violations. We are very concerned about the precedent that can be assumed from this. Israel is joining a very dubious list of countries that have deported directors of Human Rights Watch. So far, Israel has not responded to the pressure from Europe and individual countries. Is the cabinet prepared to step up this pressure and send a strong signal, namely that the shrinking area of civil society, which speaks of this, is really unacceptable?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u107	I can't make a commitment on this. I can only say that I will discuss this with my colleague Mr Blok, who is primarily about this. I assume that it was also discussed during his budget debate. I don't know. There's been a letter about it. In any case, the Netherlands is working together within the EU. There has also been an EU declaration. I have also seen a number of statements made by Germany and perhaps other countries, for example. So I have to come back to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u108	Let's talk about funding contradiction. Contradiction is of course good, especially in the Lower House, for example. We were all elected here. There are parties against your policy, against the Minister's policy. Adversity is good outside this house, too, isn't it? But I wonder why we should finance this with taxpayers' money if necessary. That's a step that doesn't really have to be taken. You can also argue without actively financing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u109	I believe there's a mixed image. We'll have a little more time to figure it out. There are a lot of organisations that contradict government policy, whether they belong to this cabinet or to other or future ones. This is not drawn from the programme funding that we give to many organisations; they have their own institutional funding. It may indeed come from a taxpayer, but it chooses freely to support that organisation. For example, he thinks that the plea or work of that organisation is absolutely good, including opposition in the Netherlands. I understand your point, but I do think it is a good thing for the Netherlands that it is not afraid of that contradiction, even if it is with the tax money. In the second term, I will come back to the number of organisations involved. Then I can give you a better picture and show you that a lot of organisations choose to use their own funds for the part that is devoted to keeping the cabinet clean, so between quotes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u110	Okay, that's good. I am glad that you will return to that in the second term. I am particularly curious about those organisations that are actively suing the State. That's a very annoying trait. If you do the same thing with taxpayers' money, it's an extra pain in the ass. But we're waiting for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u111	That says a lot about the quality of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u112	We are debating here with the minister responsible for international economic relations, international economic partnerships. In this context, I would like to return to Mrs van den Hul's question. How does this minister qualify a country with which we have economic relations to commit such a human rights violation that a human rights defender is expelled from the country? How does this minister qualify? What does she call this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u113	First of all, the very broad political human rights policy, as I would call it, is really being deported by my colleague, Minister Blok. I said I'll get back to you in the second term. It is, of course, a very worrying situation. This applies to any country where human rights representatives are under pressure. As you know, it has been debated for a very long time and has been under the jurisdiction of the court. The whole theme is not so much the role of Human Rights Watch, but the earlier statements and activities of Mr Omar Shakir. I am not saying that this is the position of the cabinet, it was the subject of the trial on his expulsion. Everywhere, in all countries, where human rights are under pressure and expression is problematic, the cabinet is committed and expresses concern. We do not always do this publicly with allies; we also discuss this bilaterally. And the European Union is actively working together. The embassy in Tel Aviv attended the court hearings, but I don't have any notes on that right now, so I say "second term."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u114	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u115	Then I move on to heading seven: the climate. This is, of course, a theme that rightly concerns the world's emotions, including in the Netherlands. I am speaking on behalf of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Development, but I can say that the cabinet encourages countries to take action to achieve the objectives of Paris and to show ambition. These two years, together with Costa Rica, I chair on behalf of the Netherlands what is called the Nationally Determined Contributions Partnership, the NDC Partnership, the national objectives partnership. By now, 65 developing countries and other organisations have joined to facilitate technical assistance, funding and "learning from each other among countries," as it is called. This concerns the ability to take better measures to combat climate change and to adapt in areas where we can offer development cooperation or other technical assistance. Over the next ten years, we will provide EUR 100 million to help farmers and farmers in the Sahel, in Mali, Burkina Faso and Niger to make demoted land productive again. Organisations are asked to work with governments, markets and farmers on sustainable agriculture. This will support the climate resilience of local communities. The tender for this was opened on Monday. Then I come to deforestation. Both Mr Bouali and Mrs Diks asked for this. I share their concern about deforestation and the need to combat it more actively. Soon you will receive a letter explaining the increased use of this cabinet against deforestation. I shall come back to the amendments tabled on this point later. Mr Van Haga asked a number of questions about nitrogen. I understand, but for this I really have to refer you to the coordinating minister for agriculture and livestock farming, because it is such a comprehensive issue within the Netherlands, with a cabinet plan, a response and a number of ministers who have to actively implement it in the first instance and are talking about it with the polder, with all those involved. That is why it is not up to me to answer your question very briefly. Ms Van den Hul also asked how the policy interventions of other departments show impact on the SDGs. At the beginning of 2019, a balancing framework was put in place to review new laws and regulations on the impact on the SDGs. Each ministry is responsible for the implementation on its own territory. Of course there is also the crux of your question, because it is much more difficult. I am indeed a coordinating minister, but I have no perseverance. Let me just say that; you know that too, but I can also name it myself. We have a lot of contacts. We have an SDG ambassador, who is working continuously with organisations, ministries and so on in the Netherlands. We will send an annual report to your Chamber. I really hope that we can raise the level and that much more attention will be paid to the visibility and measurability of the SDGs in other departments as well. It is also, as you know, measured annually by the CBS. But the stakes can be even better as far as I'm concerned. I often notice that Dutch companies talk about the SDGs much more actively than happens within their own government. So there is still some work to be done; I fully acknowledge that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u116	Have all the questions on this section been answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u117	Mr Van Haga also had a question about Access to Energy and the lever. We have answered a large part of the questions about climate finance, the leverage and how we all calculate it in writing. If there are any further questions, I will come back to them in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u118	About the deforestation. American human rights activists are begging the Netherlands to refrain from subsidies on those biomass plants. 11.4 billion would like to spend this cabinet, which this minister is part of. This is directly at the expense of forests worldwide. This cabinet supports the Mercosur Convention. This is directly at the expense of the forests in Brazil. And this cabinet has not yet started to stop imports of soya for animal feed. We've been calling attention to this for so long. But does the Minister now say: go to sleep quietly; there will be a letter? Does the Minister say here: I cannot at this moment answer the great concerns of the Chamber about deforestation worldwide; will you go to sleep quietly, because there will be another letter? What's in that letter? These concerns need to be addressed now, don't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u119	I didn't say go to sleep. These are all words from Mrs Ouwehand. In the meantime, there's a very complex letter coming up. In the second period I can simply explain it; then I will give a preview of the letter, if that is desirable. That's fine. But there are many elements to the deforestation strategy, which are good. Then we'll bring it in and I'll read it from my own work, so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u120	We just heard the minister talking about policy coherence. How does this Minister's commitment to SDGs and policy coherence relate to the recent explanation of the concept of due diligence, which we put forward in the answer by the Minister of Economic Affairs of actual questions concerning the budget? I quote. "Due diligence means to identify, address and account transparently for the risks across the chain, with the premise that companies themselves are best placed to weigh up priority issues, for example because stakeholders value them, are high risks or combine well with opportunities for the company." I really had to blink my eyes, but that was really what it said. Could the minister reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u121	It is, of course, difficult to respond to a written reply from a colleague. I'd rather read that reaction myself first. But at least there should be no difference in the way the cabinet looks at international corporate social responsibility. That's the next cup, heading nine. Due diligence is indeed a risk assessment, but then it is about mitigation. It's about covering up the risks. I assume that this is also the approach, because all the agreements are closely aligned with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and also with Mrs Keijzer, the Secretary of State. So there must be no difference. Is the wording perhaps suggestive? I do not know, but I can certainly say here that there is no difference with our interpretation of imvo. There shouldn't be, because it's about risk cover.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u122	We read that differently, didn't we? Combining well with opportunities for the company does not strike me as the primary goal of imvo and due diligence. As far as we are concerned, the rest of the cabinet could sometimes do more to raise the agenda for these SDGs. This is also one of the things promoted in the ESC opinion. If we want to achieve the SDG agenda for 2030, we need to do something about it. How does the Minister view our idea in this light, on which I had a little discussion with Mr Bouali yesterday in an interrupting debate? This idea is inspired by the ESC, which has said: we are going to show very simply in all the opinions we issue how these influence the SDG 5. How does the minister look to do that from the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u123	That would probably be my dream world. It would also make my coordination much easier. I would say: we are working on it; it is work in progress. It's a lot brighter, though. And as I said, it actually happens a lot more often in companies. Wherever you go, they're already doing it. The customers ask and the investors also want to know. So it's not really something that's really hard. Only it takes a little change. I'd like to come back to this at another time. Perhaps it is good to do so at the end of the year if we have the next report. That gives me the opportunity to discuss again before the cabinet that we simply need to have a measuring sheet, a scoreboard, as we also expect and can see from many countries and companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u124	I have a question about climate and financing. Within the 100 billion dollars that we would bring together worldwide, the Netherlands would contribute $1.25 billion. If I could just round it off, half of it's about public and the other half's private. It is a bit difficult, because we now have to ask a number of questions about the written answer, which the Minister has not yet said anything about. So you get a bit of a crazy conversation afterwards, but okay. In her written reply, the Minister says that it is difficult to calculate that leverage precisely. The leverage that we want to achieve with this funding is difficult to calculate, because it happens afterwards. I understand that this is difficult, but I would like to have that leverage afterwards. I paid a great deal of attention to this in my first term. I really think that is important, because I also think it is important that we show what we are trying to achieve with public funds, also in view of the contribution to the Green Climate Fund. Other countries bring in about twice as much per capita as we do in the Netherlands. But the big point is, of course, whether we do not push out private investments with public money, which would otherwise have been done. That is why I think it is important to be able to look at this lever afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u125	I don't know if you can find a pattern in a lever afterwards. You'd have to look at that in a couple of years. It's about correlation. The catalysing effect, which we have talked about before, has long been applied, precisely from policy point of view, but it varies from year to year. But I do understand Mrs Diks' question. In the second term, I will come back to the question of whether this can be delivered annually, but also to what you will learn. We cannot begin to read some kind of error result.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u126	Good. Continue...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u127	I was done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u128	...with the support, I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u129	Exactly. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I come to support business and the trade agenda. Business is an important partner in the broad objectives, including those of Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. The trade agenda is the action agenda that is good for Dutch earning power and can also be good for developing countries. Services to small and medium-sized enterprises and start-ups are also part of the heart of my trade agenda, the cross-section of which is the theme of women's entrepreneurship, because the economic return is clear there too, both in the Netherlands and in the other countries. In this group, there is the greatest untapped potential. The Netherlands is at the forefront of combining trade and development, now together with Finland. This also concerns the SDGs as leitmotiv, as a leading theme. Most companies, whether they are SMEs or larger companies, are committed to this. It is therefore not a new cost for them, which is very nice to see. This also gives you a coherent implementation. Mr Stoffer asked me what the successful efforts have been. There are, for example, flagship missions, trade missions, recently to Vietnam, the US and India, from different regiments. That could also be under the flag of a state visit or royal work visits, for example to India, Ireland and Germany, or led by the Prime Minister or myself. Trade missions are, of course, also carried out on a regular basis at the high level of the administration. There's a cabinet-wide approach. I therefore believe that the trade agenda needs to be looked at widely in the Cabinet, because it is not just the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that is doing this, far from it. It is also about economic affairs, agriculture and fisheries and, in fact, all the other ministries. All this, of course, also strengthens the Dutch position as a gateway to Europe and innovative hotspot. This was certainly demonstrated during the Global Entrepreneurship Summit, of which we were host country in June. That has brought thousands of companies and ideas. We are still looking at the financial results of this Summit for the Netherlands in terms of new contracts, investments, agreements and memoirs of understanding, memoranda or understanding. In response to Mr Amhaouch's question on the promotion of trade between the Netherlands and the African continent, I can indeed say, following your motion a few months ago, that business, knowledge institutions and civil society are united in the Task Force for Africa. The focus is on positioning Dutch and African business clusters in promising African markets. Every time I say "African markets," I'm aware that there's a book called "Africa is not a country." So I want to make sure that everyone knows that I am constantly talking about the continent, without, of course, affecting the many countries on the African continent. I am pleased that this week VNO-NCW and SME-Netherlands handed over their so-called Africa strategy to the Prime Minister in Nigeria. This again underlines the commitment of the Dutch business community and the opportunities that lie there. The task force we have set up is going to work to help cash out concrete opportunities in public-private partnerships. In doing so, we look at knowledge institutions. We are looking at the SDGs as a guide and, of course, we are also looking at SMEs and start-ups. So there is also a great deal in Mr Weverling's and Mr Amhaouch's questions. Mr Weverling rightly also asked about innovation and development. New solutions are needed. I have a few things to say on this subject. These are not things; small words do not apply, because I still have a few important themes. Mr Weverling asked about innovation and development. We agree that new solutions are needed which are scalable, economically profitable and sensible for the future. So we're investing in an innovation fund. €5 million will be made available to Dutch and local SMEs. For Dutch SMEs, this fund was already open to circular solutions in fast growing cities. This resulted in 11 contracts, but I'm just saying that as an example. This involves, for example, waste to energy, a mobile digester et cetera, et cetera. This is often in the field of energy and renewable energy. Our entrepreneurs are actively involved in development cooperation in various ways and they share their knowledge and skills in full; I say this to Mr Weverling. They're excited about that. We also, because together we invest in work and income, which is good for the Netherlands but also for developing countries, and the use of sustainable trade chains is wise. But I am also thinking of many other approaches, such as the PUM, the retired managers who are used to develop business opportunities in developing countries. I'll be back at the workshop. Public funds are used to enable private investment. So that's the catalyzing effect again. We also have the Dutch Good Growth Fund; sorry, Madam Speaker, that's what it's called. We also have the FMO and the DTIF for non-OS countries. These are all instruments that SMEs can claim. If SMEs cannot find the way, we are always prepared to see what is still needed to take them on, so that they can actually make their own decisions and do not miss out on opportunities. I know bureaucracy can have an intimidating effect. That's not the point. We're a service. So it shouldn't scare off. Of course, we are also in the process of setting up Invest International. You'll get a letter about that. There is another route to go, but I would like to say to Mr Amhaouch that I assume it will be operational before the end of this cabinet period. A number of fine examples have also been mentioned, including by Mr Weverling. The project on the transformation of the Nigerian vegetable market is a good example of this. The Dutch company Oost-West Seeds collaborates with local universities and governments to achieve productivity gains in the local vegetable sector through knowledge transfer, but also to achieve the introduction of new crops or a strengthening of crops. For example, crops are protected from climate change and so on. Farmers obviously benefit from this because of higher yields and predictability of harvests, because they are not so subject to the fluctuations of the weather. This is financed, for example, by the SDG Partnership Facility. When we look at the broad trade agenda, we do indeed see Mr Amhaouch, and I often exchange views about this that we have active support. We must always keep looking for them for the trade agenda. We must also continue to invest in our own competitiveness. In the first instance, of course, this has been invested in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, but it is carried widely in the Cabinet. We are constantly looking for this intensive cooperation with and between regional authorities, industry and knowledge institutions. Now I find myself completely in English, but all the titles are mentioned in English. I translate cramped, but slowly no one recognizes their own organization. It's called Netherlands Business Hub. They are offering business to business support in eight cities. For the business people who want to organize premeets, business mixers and remeets, i.e.: meet, mix, and meet again. There is also a Trade & Innovate NL to support SMEs in internationalisation. 100 SME activities have already been launched. They use Trade & Innovate NL and Netherlands Works, and also work intensively together on a large number of cooperation programmes. Perhaps you have heard the VNO-NCW chairman, Hans de Boer, talk about the whole exciting project on cleaning the Ganges River, for which Dutch companies offer solutions to the societal challenges. So we want to create an excellent start-up ecosystem in the Netherlands. There are six start-up locations, where start-ups and scale-ups are served by access to networks, knowledge and capital. I also have a priority in my trade agenda, just for start-ups. I've also been on a mission, along with Constantine from Orange, to Silicon Valley. We look at every trade mission to see if there is a connection for start-ups and SMEs to get their ideas across the border. For example, Minister Knops of the Interior has recently been on an artificial intelligence and blockchain start-up mission and on a digitisation mission to Singapore. Mr Weverling asked about the amendment on start-ups in developing countries. For example, there has already been an addition to the financing of Agritech's agri-food programme in Lebanon. It's been extended. Of course, we also have a great interest in getting start-ups to scale-ups. We are also looking at the good use of Orange Corners in a number of countries, where young people also want to investigate this. In Iraq, in Erbil, but actually in all the countries where I come, I visit new Orange Corners. I've got a little bit left to go. Madam President, is it right that I should take a break for this, or would you like me to...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u130	Well, when this is done, I'll go to Mr Amhaouch's interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u131	No, I'm not done. I just signaled...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u132	Then I suggest you finish this. Mr Amhaouch will then be given the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u133	Yeah, I'm fine. Mr Weverling also asked me to pay attention to the internationalisation of SMEs in the field of innovation. I think I have already shown that we are trying to do this systematically. Innovation is also a cross-cutting issue in the trade agenda. They can make a specific claim to support through the RVO instrumentarium. This is precisely aimed at start-ups exporters, business partners, coaches, knowledge vouchers and, of course, support through the innovation attachés on the posts. That is something new; they are there in strategic places. Not every country, of course, lends itself to an innovation attaché. They can just knock on the door and leave their questions. To Mr Stoffer of the SGP, I just want to reaffirm that food security and water are and remain important issues. There are still huge opportunities for the Netherlands to achieve maximum returns in public-private contexts. The international strategic dialogue is also used for the top sectors. Water, food and energy are also the theme of the Dubai Expo 2020. I have already answered Mr Amhaouch's question on Invest International. There'll be 800 million from the cabinet in there. This should help to resolve bottlenecks in export and international financing. Of course, complex emerging markets are often less accessible to Western and Dutch companies. It is difficult to finance, let alone ensure. Invest International must also play a role in removing these barriers. But as I said, we hope that Invest International will be formally established by the end of 2020 and can therefore really start. The cabinet is also greening the financial instruments of Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, including export credit insurance, in line with the objectives of the Paris Agreement and the SDG agenda. Together with Secretary of State Snel, I have the commitment to get more green projects into the ekv portfolio. In the spring of 2020, the Chamber will be informed of the results through the annual ekv monitor. I do not share Mrs Diks' assertion that there is policy inconsistency. We are looking, together with Secretary of State Snel, for support for the business community that wants to be at the forefront of the energy transition. We're working on the greening of the ekv portfolio. Where things are going much harder, that's within my span of control, my control room is at the ultimate greening of concessional financing through the World Bank and all other banks. We have said that we want a total reduction from the fossil sector there. We just want to go for adaptation. But there is a big difference between concessional financing and export insurance. In export insurance, we need to look at the level playing field of companies operating in a world where the energy transition takes place at different speeds. I think that the recent IPCC report again shows that we all need to go much faster. But it is a fact that fossil will remain in many countries and will necessarily remain part of the global energy mix for a growing world population in the coming decades. That's what we hear from the International Energy Agency. Without export credit insurance, orders simply go to German, French or Chinese companies. We have government-wide attention to this. I understand very well the dilemma you want to name. We are really trying to attract this and look at companies that are very active in greening. Then there was a question from Mrs Diks and I am here, Madam President. She asked a follow-up question to start a coalition to phase out fossil. We are, of course, doing so at EU and OECD level. An approach there is always best. The Netherlands is one of the driving forces in the development of the OECD climate sector understanding. Furthermore, we are in conversation with Germany and Denmark to enable better support from the ekv for wind energy. So one is a transformation, a transition. With regard to money that goes through the World Bank and other instruments, we have called for an ultimate acceleration with the other shareholders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u134	In my speech, I was talking about passion and ambition. That is something that the Minister is right about now. I think it is important for the Minister to express the ambition that we are indeed going to make Invest International functional this year. Because there's just a lot of money we can use. VNO-NCW and SME-Netherlands, in cooperation with FMO and NABC, handed over the Africa strategy of business to the Prime Minister this week. They themselves say that this could be an input to public-private cooperation. I would like to ask what the Minister's ambition is. What is the task she assigned to that task force in the context of timing? When can we expect results there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u135	On the timing, I'll come back in the second term. I totally understand this. This question from Mr Amhaouch has been for some time. I can say that a great deal of work has been done in preparing for the creation of the task force. I think that the discussions on implementation and identification with the countries, partners and sectors should go much faster, because the preliminary work was throughout the Dutch polder model that we have so beautifully with each other. That's what time went by.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u136	I have pointed out in my contribution that trade policy does, however, suppress all the other values which this cabinet claims to defend. The Minister has not yet reflected on this. I would like to draw the Minister's attention to the motion that the government has adopted to use the ambitions for circular agriculture and to see if our trade policy still fits in with that. Should trade policy not be reviewed because we now have an ambition for circular agriculture? I haven't seen any of that. Let me take a concrete example. I've been trying to get the minister to reflect on the veal deal with China for two years. How does this fit in with the ambitions for climate, food security, animal welfare, circular agriculture? And why does the Minister refuse to talk about that when I ask her to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u137	I don't think a difference of opinion or approach is a refusal. It's just another explanation of the same situation. That's one. Two. There'd be an AO the other day, but that's been moved. This is now going to happen here when it comes to policy consistency. This is a very important theme for the Party for Animals. I am also in the government to promote the broad policy for the Netherlands. There's a lot of work to be done. My colleague Carola Schouten is very keen to set up circular agriculture in the Netherlands. I understand that very well; it is about consistency where you can weigh things up. But I would also say: first let's get to work in the Netherlands. That is a lot of talk, about phasing out, phasing out, adaptation, financing, instruments and so on. At the same time, we look at sustainability through international corporate social responsibility, through the investments we make, through agriculture and through technical knowledge. That's different. But to say not even to the Minister for Foreign Trade, but to the cabinet: stop trading, because we just want to do circle... First, I ask for an alternative economic model for the welfare state of the Netherlands. We rely on transformation and the use and deployment of technology. Those are continuous conversations. That's not a refusal. It's just a fundamentally different world view. I also belong to a party that takes responsibility, along with the other three coalition parties, because it is so difficult to tackle this change in times of turbulence and with the great challenges we have. There are no easy answers for that. Everyone has to be taken into account. I certainly wouldn't want to suffer from a huge overestimate that I sometimes hear about the direct influence of the Netherlands. In countries where we have very little influence, it is a matter of moving forward with the EU, creating a platform there, talking and using all the resources. Here you have the level playing field as a factor. We are looking at how we can use the instruments and what qualitative standards and requirements are. On circular agriculture, I would like to come back in the second term where that is relevant to my immediate theme.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u138	Let me make a procedural point. The coalition has deleted the planned AO with the Minister of LNV and the Minister for Foreign Trade and proposed to deal with all issues in this budget. I assume that is perhaps annoying for the Minister, but yes, it was the coalition's choice that she can simply answer questions that lie in the field of the Minister for Agriculture. So that's gonna be in second term? I've done it before, but I've now explicitly asked you to reflect on that veal deal. The Minister knows if it is right that the Netherlands does have a role in this. We import calves from Ireland and Lithuania, but she still doesn't say anything about it. This may come in second term, but if the coalition decides it has to be here, the minister must also give those answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u139	I'm gonna take a look at the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u140	I will see what I can do in consultation with my colleague from Landouw and Fisheries in her area in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u141	Then I hope that this procedural point does not count, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u142	No, it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u143	By the way, I appointed the AO myself. So there is absolutely no inconsistency on this side. But there are a lot of themes that a minister is vulgar about. It's good that I have her insights.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u144	Mrs. Diks, a brief interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u145	Yeah, we're doing our best. The Minister spoke very strongly about the questions I raised in the first term about export credit insurance. Thank you for that answer, and also for indicating that the commitment is real to greening it. In the first period, I made it very clear that there is a crazy inconsistency when you spend a billion dollars on climate finance, to green up, and a billion dollars to actually support the fossil industry, because 97% of that billion is fossil. Wouldn't it make sense or help to set up a coalition of like-minded countries, for example France, that it feels the same way as you, in order to speed up the phasing out of fossil within export credit insurance?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u146	I think it is first a matter that we should discuss nationally with each other before we go to France. That's just something we need to get together. It's a level playing field. As you know, within the coalition there are other accents and colors. I must then first discuss this with Mr Snel and other stakeholders. I'm never confused with ideas with coalitions that can work, especially where others are slower. We do this very often in a broader context. This can be done at political level, and this can also be done when it comes to other issues. So I recognize the approach, but I can't make a commitment about something that really needs to be worn in government. That is why I said that we have put all these instruments into total greening with regard to the World Bank and all these instruments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u147	A brief follow-up question. I understand your struggle, because it is apparently difficult to get this story straight in the cabinet, but I do think it is important that this minister is going to stand up to shape that greening. In fact, you are the one who can put an end to the very great inconsistency that is now in the policy, and I would like to help you with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u148	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u149	With regard to the proactive trade agenda, a motion has been adopted asking for points of contact to be brought together and for everything to be clarified. I am not entirely enthusiastic about the Minister's response. In her written reply she writes about the RVO that more work will be done on it. It's also about case managers. Entrepreneurs find the RVO, but the RVO has now become a ministry in itself with a lot of well-intentioned people who work there, so that's what bad word is about. The point is that when you come in, you're also taken away by that forest of regulations. We have a lot of good arrangements, but it needs to be more transparent. So a motion has been passed on that and I'm actually looking for a little more comfort.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u150	I understand. I will come back to it briefly in the second term, because I share the point of view. It should be as easy as possible for SMEs. If he wants to internationalize, he needs to know where he can go. You have to have one portal, but if you're through that portal with that case manager then it's still going to take a long time in practice. People experience it as slow. I have to do expectations management. We also often hear: take SMEs on trade missions. Well, we're really trying. I also hang out very much with Jacco Vonhof of the Netherlands-SME, but the point is that we often don't get them. Most SMEs prefer to internationalise in Germany or Belgium, and that is quite understandable. The risk is manageable and there is comfort, especially in the border areas. So let's do the 360er here and see that we don't come up with anything for a problem that isn't entirely justified. Despite all the anecdotes, we really want to be as customer-oriented as possible. In the second term, I will come back to the question of whether there can be some adjustments that will give you comfort, but also to the reality of SMEs, because that is what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u151	Okay, I'll take that as my assumption. Thank you. Then there is the bilateral innovation instrument and more concessional financing and preventing ports and such from being built worldwide, but without Dutch companies being entitled to do so. We're just good at that. I am talking not only about ports but about all kinds of economic infrastructure. There's just some kind of hiccup there and I haven't heard a pleasant answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u152	I think Mr Weverling is talking about funds such as DRIVE and others. I know that a standard VVD point is, I think I remember, that much more use should be made of conditionality in our ODA programme, which can benefit Dutch companies, for example. We are not from conditional financing. There are a number of instruments, and I have not heard any complaints from the companies at the moment. They also participate through visits; we open the door and we help them with the memorandum of understanding. They are, of course, also eligible for funding through the EU's Multiannual Financial Framework. But if you have any concrete examples that you want more, I'd be happy to hear them. There is a lot of space and I do not see that Dutch companies, precisely because they have expertise in ports and logistics, are excluded. Rather the opposite.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u153	And the 60 million-dollar ceiling in DRIVE, you don't find a obstructive ceiling?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u154	Well, we've got to have a ceiling somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u155	So can it go up, you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u156	The budget is the budget. It's been published and it's based on the experience of the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u157	We are talking about the trading bloc, which is quite a lot. So the questions also come together a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u158	Yeah, I'm fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u159	We recognise what the Minister says, that SMEs need to be helped to internationalise. This indeed starts close to home, in Germany and Belgium. That is why we have also tabled our amendment to allow the ROMs to help. Then follow those other steps. I'd like to take the Minister back to the start-ups. We indeed tabled that amendment last year and made a few million available. It is good to hear that agritech, which we ourselves saw as a committee in Lebanon, can make progress. However, the question to the Minister is how she is really going to help with this programme in more concrete terms in the agri-food sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u160	To understand the question: is it via the start-ups or do you want to develop agritech to other start-ups?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u161	Mr. Amhaouch, what exactly do you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u162	We adopted an amendment last year and made a few million available to set up start-ups in developing countries. Agritech had already started and is getting a start. That's good. Good initiatives should also be taken forward, but how far along? So how are we going to make concrete use of the start-ups outside agritech in other countries where the Netherlands, Wageningen, can help with knowledge? How are we gonna give that program hands and feet? What does the Minister do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u163	There are now a number of projects at the Ministry, also at Wageningen. In some countries there are just start-ups, so knowledge... It is almost the triple helix, but then knowledge, local, entrepreneurs, young people, and also Dutch companies. I think we are about to see a start, but we also use the Orange Corners to attract a lot of talent there. It's very slow work. We cannot pretend that they have the same climate as in the Netherlands in countries where it is difficult. In the Netherlands, too, the majority of start-ups do not necessarily grow. The ultimate country that is a start-up nation is Israel. There too, a large part of the start-ups go bankrupt or do not grow and start again. It is also a culture in which you may fail to start again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u164	I understand that, but I would like the Minister to give me a promise that she will regularly inform the committee through a letter about what we are doing to give those start-ups hands and feet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u165	I think we can do this at least with another AO. I don't want it every three months, because that's not gonna work. That's like looking at a moving tree. It might be good to give a brief overview every six months. Then we can talk about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u166	Then I suggest that you deal with the following subjects and do so at a slightly higher rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u167	Thank you, Madam President. Completeness can help, but it works against time. The sustainability of global value chains is a challenge. It is, of course, the result of the SDG agenda. The production of goods and services must be sustainable with respect for human rights. The Netherlands is at the forefront, although I share the opinion of many in this Chamber that we should, of course, go much faster if you look at all the challenges in the world. With regard to legal measures for the imvo, I repeat, in response to Mrs Diks and Mr Voordewind, that, in accordance with the coalition agreement, it was agreed that the agreement approach should continue. Ten of them are now locked down. After two years, the need for mandatory measures shall be assessed. There's been a whole trajectory set up. I think you've already had a technical briefing from a number of ministry officials. If not, I'll admit it. We are in the process of evaluation, the various sub-studies that are there about the success and learning processes within the imvo policy and how the image can look like, but we have until next summer. I don't want to anticipate this entire trajectory. That would be careless and only give part of the image. The presentation of the main lines of our review and recommendations will take place for the 2021 budget debate. So there's still time. There's a whole trajectory. I would also like to share that with you, but I believe that I have also communicated this in writing. I share Mr Alkaya's view that imvo policy is essential. We are also striving for coherence between imvo and trade promotion. Is it perfect? No, but there is a direct endeavor. You received the response of the cabinet to the IOB evaluation of the imvo policy last Friday in a letter of inquiry. However, it is good to recall that the IOB concludes that the government's strategy to develop imvo frameworks for all business instruments has proved effective. For example, the cabinet naturally expects all Dutch companies to endorse and comply with the OECD guidelines. We have set ourselves a target, as Mr Alkaya knows. Companies that we know do not comply with, ignore or have not signed up to will not participate in the trade mission anyway. There's gonna be conversations with these companies, too. The other day, when visiting India, a company that had registered was told that it could not compete on the basis of our efforts. We try to be as coherent as possible with ourselves. Mr Bouali asked me how the cabinet is working to raise awareness of sustainable products among consumers. There are different channels for that. Those are the imvo agreements themselves. The interbranch organisations themselves and the affiliated parties do this. The annual reports are there for the truly interested consumer. But not everyone wants to look it up, of course. There is talk of the risks in the chain and the approach. Civil society organisations also play an active role in consumer affairs. Mr Bouali then asked for an opportunity to organise a European summit. We have already organised this conference in Brussels earlier this year. Finland is now going to be the EU President. As a follow-up, a conference will be held in Brussels on 3 December. Germany will organise an imvo conference at EU level. So we are not doing it, but fortunately other countries are doing it and we can work closely with them. I'm almost done with this cup. Our AO recently asked about the EU action plan on imvo. We have submitted a paper to the Council. We have asked for support from Member States and have called on the Commission to put an imvo action plan into effect now. Then you look at a level playing field, but especially at sustainability and the wider framework of imvo. Then there was a question from Mrs Van den Hul about the stakes on imvo and the SDGs at the embassies. That is a requirement within our postal network. A new directive has also been drawn up on the subject of imvo. There's gonna be practice. There's gonna be a toolkit. There's a lot of talk going on. We expect an active role, involvement and knowledge, and adjustment or direction of the punishing embassy. Of course, the importance of the rule of law, human rights, good governance, social rights and the environment is always stressed. Economic diplomacy must not be pulled away from imvo diplomacy. It's integral.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u168	I would really like to call on the Members of Parliament to keep the interruptions short and not to pre-empt any lengthy introductions. Mrs. Van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u169	The AIV states that it is not sufficiently clear to what extent the objective of "strengthening international earning capacity" is really being assessed against SDG criteria. We have seen a critical IOB report and an ESC opinion, both of which say the same thing: the imvo and SDG diplomacy is inadequate. That's gotta be more, that's gotta be stronger...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u170	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u171	...and that's gotta be better. My question is whether, with those opinions in mind, the Minister can once again reflect on our earlier plea for reinforcement. And not only with regard to the directives to which the Minister referred, the implementation of Mrs Diks's motion, but also with regard to the capacity, on which I have tabled an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u172	I do not see that everything is a matter of additional capacity. It concerns awareness, knowledge and perhaps further professionalisation of the available staff. The Foreign Affairs budget has been dealt with. Money has been released for the postal network. It is very important, but we really think that awareness and knowledge should be present at all posts. We also have a lot of local staff dealing with these kinds of themes. They are also usable. So I don't see that we have to come up with extras, but I'm sharing it. I can also report back on how it is now coming into effect and how the new directive, with training and everything, has been implemented. I think it is a good thing that I think it is important that we take a closer look at the boundaries. If it still has limitations, we can come back to it. Otherwise, we're not serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u173	The last question, Mrs Van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u174	With the last commitment, I am very pleased, so to make it easier to understand how the wishes relate to the reality of the posts. I am very pleased with that commitment, so we look forward to further concreteising how the posts are dealing with it now and what they are running into.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u175	I would like to add that the directive must first be shared and implemented and trained. So we need a little time for this. It's not going to happen overnight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u176	The Minister indicated that she would come forward with the evaluation of the IMP policy for the 2021 budget and, I assume, with a response to it. But, of course, we see in the IOB policy evaluation that it is simply not successful and that the covenants do not work well enough. I would be incredibly sorry if we lost a year now to show even better next year that it didn't actually work well enough. Then we'll all just lose a year. Is it possible to start considering many more compelling measures before and on-going the evaluation? I would like to make one comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u177	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u178	Yes, very briefly. I myself was one of the people who very much relied on the voluntary participation of companies. I still do, and I agree with that. But, as with the female quota, I see that voluntaryness is all very nice and very sweet, but it does not work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u179	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u180	So I really think the Minister should think about the stick.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u181	Voluntaryity and non-committality are not the same. That's one. Two: we know that some European countries already have partial legislation. We have our own studies. You have read a study that I believe was carried out on our initiative to identify what legal measures are in place, what they are for and what effect they have. We are therefore long in the process of making an integral overview. I can assure you that we will not only get to work and start thinking when everything is inside. This is a parallel process. That is why I suggest once again: if the technical briefing has not taken place, we will do it again with the knowledge of today and with further studies, because we will take everything with us. The IOB evaluation is not the only evaluation. The study of the ESC is a more procedural study. So they are different elements.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u182	The last question, Mrs Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u183	Thank you for that answer. The Minister says he's already working hard on it. My commitment is to prevent us from having the evaluation on the table, to note that it has not worked well enough and then has to do a lot of things. With this answer, I now assume that when you come up with the evaluation, there is a whole package of 'how to proceed'. We will then be able to set up this package fairly quickly, if it is legislation or other forms of cooperation and so on, but a complete story will be presented to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u184	I'll give you one win warning. Yes, you'll get a complete package. You will also be given a cabinet juice valuation, with an indication of the direction. However, it must first be coordinated with the government. This is not something I can just decide on my own. Secondly, of course, there is also the Chicken Law, which has been adopted by the Second and First Chambers. That law is pending evaluation and wider measures so that they can be repealed. So there is political pressure, and the right pressure, anyway, to come to a proper balance. You have my bet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u185	At the same time, a treaty is also being negotiated at the United Nations to force multinationals to act responsibly. The Minister knows that. We've talked about that before. In the written answer to the questions, she says that her commitment remains to achieve a common commitment in the European Union. I welcome that constructive role. But what prevents the Minister from encouraging those countries to join these negotiations bilaterally, in the relationship between the Netherlands and, for example, Canada, the United States and Australia?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u186	There are two layers in this process. Mr Alkaya knows that like no other. Firstly, it was a bit quiet and indeed a lot of important partners have run away. Unfortunately, that erodes the relevance of a treaty. Of course, you want the important players, wherever the multinationals and others have their headquarters, to participate. I think that's important. Secondly, this is primarily through the EEAS, the EU, which should now be given a new mandate. So we can do anything bilaterally, but that makes little sense. The others know that, too. The EU must come with us. The commitment is to make the EU truly active in a smart way first. To reassure you, I also heard this at the Trade Council the other day. Then we can move on with that. But walking alone, while the EU does not participate, is a dead end. Secondly, of course, we also have a problem with the President, Ecuador. There have been a number of rounds. The stakes themselves are too limited. We are, of course, looking wider. You shouldn't just look at multinationals. When it comes to legislation and risks from investments and so on, we need to look more broadly. We also have many issues in substance. It's not just a matter of bringing countries in. We can only convince those countries if there is also a bit of a shift in how you want to negotiate that treaty and what the treaty should be about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u187	I do not call on the Netherlands to walk alone in this, because I see that the commitment of the European Commission is becoming more constructive, precisely because the Netherlands is working in Brussels. That is good, but at the same time, the Netherlands can encourage Canada, in its ongoing contacts with Canada and the United States, to move forward and express concerns about the process in Geneva as well. There's nothing to stop the cabinet from doing that, is there? I call on the Minister to do the same in bilateral relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u188	Short reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u189	Very briefly. Noted. With Canada, we have continuous constructive discussions. At the moment, we are calling on the United States not to turn its back on the WTO. This in the context of: what can you expect and what is real? We do all these things in the ongoing contacts, but of course you have to adjust your expectation level.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u190	This automatically brings you to the last two topics. I'd treat them at the same time, because everything is connected to everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u191	Just a little bit more about the imvo cube. The IOB evaluation on the broad imvo policy is there. There is an interesting phrase in it, namely a recommendation to see if you can come up with a smart mix of, for example, the covenants and a lower limit in the legislation. How does the Minister respond to that recommendation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u192	Well, I find that very interesting. I think it's a very real one, but I really just need to go through the process and take everything with me. If I have to make an assessment, a smart mix becomes very workable. That is what many of the sectors themselves say. Some even ask for it from the point of view of a level playing field.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u193	Finally, Mr President. The Minister says that you will get that evaluation before the budget, but we will always deal with it here at the end of November. And then we'll be sitting a few months before the election. If we're not prepared, I'm afraid it's gonna run away until after the election.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u194	No, I wasn't talking about the evaluation, I was talking about the whole package. The whole stuff has to be done internally before the summer. Then there'll be a cabinet Juice Appreciation. I want the whole response ready before the budget. My own goal is September, but you must also give time for a good trial so that we can do something with it. But that's what you're sharing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u195	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u196	Then there is trade policy. I do not need to name it in the most clear way anymore: the trade policy system is under severe pressure worldwide. I come directly to D66's question, in anticipation of the written report you receive on the results of the ISD Trade, which we discussed last week. There is broad support in Brussels for the European Commission's approach to the functioning of an effective dispute resolution system for trade disputes. That needs to be secured. In fact, there is a lot of pessimism about what is still possible. I myself made the appeal that we really need to come up with a plan B and other proposals. It cannot be that the Achilles' heel of the World Trade Organisation makes the whole organisation stand on the sidelines. This is an alternative mechanism which must be acceptable, building on Mr Alkaya, in order to bring the large countries back in. Ideally, everyone's gonna be in on it. We stressed this during the RBZ Trade. The European Commission continues to work on an interim solution to the dispute resolution mechanism, also known as Applate Body. A temporary system is being sought at all, and I am concerned about the possibility of recourse to arbitration as a standard. My concern is that the parallel systems are going to be a displacement for the official system. That's what we need to keep hammering on. Mr Van Haga had some questions about China. As he knows, we are committed to the level playing field of Dutch entrepreneurs and the internal market worldwide. Unfair competition is caused by Chinese companies that receive market distorting State aid and derive their benefit from it. In line with the China Notice, we are committed to the level playing field. We are also looking at a few examples, such as closing gaps in WTO rules on industrial subsidies and making new agreements on e-commerce at WTO level. The Nur-Sultan Conference or the 12th WTO conference in Kazakhstan will certainly deal with this next year. We are committed at EU level to an investment agreement with China, which will increase market access for Dutch-European companies, but with an open eye, as it is called. We are, of course, also looking at the investment test, countering unfair competition from state-funded companies. We also support the international purchasing instrument that can be used as a commercial policy instrument to ensure mutual market access in the field of public procurement. But the price will be increased for those who cannot prove that they do not want to participate without state subsidies. So there are a lot of agreements that we follow, but are we successful as the Netherlands alone? No, we really need to do it with the EU, together in the WTO context. We also want, for example, an adaptation of China's status as a developing country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u197	Were you done with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u198	No, not yet. I see Mr Van Haga...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u199	I see him, too, but I suggest you move on and finish this first. He's about to get the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u200	I'll do it at an accelerated rate. Mr Van Haga also asked about the future relationship between the EU and the United Kingdom. We're all following that very closely. As for the possibilities of preparing for a future trade agreement, should there be a Brexit: we are simply going to prepare ourselves in the same way as we did in Brexit-tempo. We're gonna keep following this. The European Council's guidelines for the negotiation of political declarations, including the adjusted political declaration, adequately cover Dutch interests. We are positive and constructive. I also share Mr Van Haga's view that the United Kingdom remains an important partner in all areas: values, standards and cooperation. Mr Stoffer asked a question about volatile prices in the agricultural markets. Trade is dynamic and has always been dynamic, I think. As regards the sum mentioned by the SGP, next year the European Commission will carry out a study on the cumulative impact of trade agreements on the agricultural sector. That is an important element. I think we're all waiting for those outcomes and interested in them. Mr Alkaya asked me whether I agree that a one-sided export-oriented focus on free trade entails disadvantages and whether there is sufficient attention for this. I can only emphasise once again that my policy concerns the SDG agenda. We are looking for coherence for the international approach to major global problems, in which economic, social and environmental goals are equal. The performance is of course a different story. We're not alone in that. We are also concerned about and strongly concerned about the sustainability of global value chains, imvo et cetera and so on, as well as about strengthening the multilateral trading system and combating protectionism. One final point: I feel your haste, Madam President. There has been a lot of exchange on CETA. I would like to say in advance that, of course, we are going to have a very separate debate on this. I can only stress that, like all previous Cabinets, the Cabinet considers trade agreements to be of great importance. It is not just about increasing a market and lowering tariffs, which is important for our earning capacity. It is also about forging partnerships, strengthening our cooperation, ensuring international organisation, in accordance with the rules of the game, based on the right, on fair trade, on open markets, on respect for intellectual property and on a level playing field. Of course, we also have an eye for the sustainability of production and respectful handling of animals and nature. We also keep an eye on the position of workers and working conditions and so on. I'm just saying "et cetera" because I just have to jump on to the next paragraph in the context of the rush. Here's an explanation. Members Van Weerdenburg of the PVV and Amhaouch of the CDA asked some questions about CETA, the EU-Canada trade agreement. I have already said that there will be a debate. There are many concerns, as the Cabinet knows. We've always said that, and we have an eye for that. But having regard to the concerns, recognising that there are concerns, does not mean that we share the assumptions on which the concerns are based. We have always said that. It is important to also look at the cabinet's assessment and the facts used by the cabinet. CETA takes place in a context of global politics, geopolitics, geo-economics, trade and international organisation. The content of the Convention remains important. Of course, we want to look closely at the debate with the Chamber. There are four questions that come back all the time. These concern the level playing field between Canada and the EU in the fields of labour, environment and animal welfare and the protection of standards, the level of material protection between the EU and Canada, food safety and consumer protection. European standards and regulations remain in full force, including under CETA. There is no downward impact on the level of protection as assessed by the Cabinet. We will, of course, continue to talk about animal welfare. Canada has supported the Universal Declaration of Animal Welfare and has indicated its willingness to incorporate high animal welfare standards into its own laws and regulations. Then last but not least, sustainability. Canada and the EU are obliged to comply with international climate and environmental conventions. I have come to the end of another theme, Madam President, which is the Investment Court System. The question is, of course, always: why do we actually have an Investment Court System, especially with a country like Canada? That's right. But with all the treaties that the Netherlands has, this has finally been negotiated, there has never been any claim to such an investment dispute resolution system. Anyone can still go to court in the Netherlands and Canada. The freedoms for the Empire, provinces and municipalities are actually strengthened. That is very important, because that often lives with municipalities. The right to regulate shall not be affected. This does not take place under CETA. That is not prejudiced. This brings me to the end of my first term, Madam President. I apologise for the long time, but we do not often debate in plenary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u201	No, that's not the point at all. Before I give the floor to Members of Parliament, I would like to ask the following question. I do not want the Minister to answer certain questions because of the time constraints, because it is a budgetary procedure. Many questions can simply be asked quickly and concretely, and answered in concrete terms, but I find that not everyone can do that. I'll look at the minister first. Don't you leave certain things behind because of the pressure of time? 'Cause I don't want to. Did you say everything?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u202	I'm at the end now, Madam President, so if I go back to point a... I'm waiting for the questions. There are also things I can name in the second term. If questions are asked about this now, I will come back to that in the second term if I have to consult or talk to another minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u203	Yes. But I don't want things to be skipped because of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u204	I've been following the main lines. We've dealt with a lot in writing. I look forward to omissions or a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u205	Mrs Ouwehand, Mr Van Haga was earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u206	Yes, but perhaps the Minister would like to take some time to answer my question, because I was already here at the introduction. I said, "What's wrong with protecting the farmers?" The Minister would come back to that in concrete terms, because she thought that was a rhetorical question. She said 'later I'll get back to that in concrete terms', but I haven't actually heard that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u207	Of course, we don't make a policy for anything if there's nothing wrong with it. The Netherlands has an active agricultural policy. You know all the notes from my colleague, Mrs Schouten. But we do stand for open and fair trade. I think I've already appointed the cabinet to make a different weighting, just like all the cabinets before us. You have to weigh it wide. We look at sustainability, animal welfare and European standards. If you look at international corporate social responsibility and the commitment to my budget, you will see that a race to the top is being watched and not a race down. Mrs Ouwehand has a completely different assessment of and opinion on fair trade. I don't know which economic model goes with it, except for the Doughnut Economy, but I'd like to see it worked out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u208	In her introduction, the Minister said that entrepreneurs could be protected by the EU when it comes to state capitalism. I'd like to extend that to e-commerce. In fact, there is little protection from the EU. There will be a lot of rules, lots of standards and lots of things in the banking sector and in the e-commerce sector. Would it not be appropriate to call on the EU to at least address the cost of transporting and shipping packages, so that they are relatively higher in the price of purchasing a package?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u209	I have already replied in writing. I have to discuss whether that is workable at all. I said that the EU is going to stand for this, but I do not know whether de facto in all areas always leads to protection. We also want to trade and participate in e-commerce with this agenda. You are right to be concerned with unfair and unfair competition. That's a matter of concern. I shall come back to it in the second term, because I would like to look at the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u210	I asked the Minister a question about the negative effects of trade in the first period. She replied very briefly. She said: we strive for coherence. Next, when she talks about cohesion, she mentions subjects that are directed outwards, directed abroad, such as ecological, social and imvo-like aspects. That's what we talk about a lot of times. My question now was only very specific whether she or the Ministry is looking at the effects on wages and jobs in the Netherlands, i.e. the effects of years of free trade on the Dutch economy. Let me give you an example of wage moderation. Are there people watching that, or is that really a blind spot?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u211	Mr Alkaya has, I believe, previously worked in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, if my memory serves me well. There are, of course, just trade ministries, as you know, but I understand your point. You cannot look at trade without looking at its consequences, on any subject. Domestic and foreign countries are closely linked. Globalisation is causing a lot of unrest. There are indeed consequences and inequality in the world. The adverse effects of technological adjustment will also be seen here, and we are seeing more and more phase-out of jobs without adapting to new jobs. Of course, these are issues, but this is a cabinet-wide weighting. I am responsible for and speak about the budget for external trade and development cooperation. Do I think in the cabinet about how that should remain in balance? Yes. But that's a cabinet meeting. This budget debate is not the time to talk about it. Of course there are great concerns. For example, I am very interested in the future of work, also in the Netherlands. How do you deal with the ageing population, which education system fits in best, how can people actually learn a lifetime? I am taking these issues with me to my own budget and my own mandate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u212	I'm glad the Minister's starting to confirm that I know what I'm talking about. I have indeed worked at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and know exactly what the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u213	That's your assumption; I didn't say that. I only named where you had worked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u214	I'll just confirm that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u215	Yes, confirm yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u216	If she doesn't see it that way... Yeah, exactly. Otherwise, I'll hear from the Minister why she doesn't think so. I know that the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation is not paying enough attention to this. I can see that this minister is not paying enough attention to it either. I see that coming back into the budget, into its policy and into how it talks about CETA. Can I call on her to pay more attention to the effects of her policy here in the Netherlands? Or does she really say: I am not talking about it; we are talking about it in the cabinet, but nobody really is responsible for it? The Minister for Economic Affairs does not have a globalisation adjustment fund, as the European Union does.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u217	I think there are different themes that are mixed up. The trade agenda is a cabinet agenda, as you know. It is closely aligned with both the Minister and the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, but also with the Ministries of Agriculture and Health, Welfare and Sport. The latter also goes abroad to share knowledge and open markets for knowledge and the new experiences that the Netherlands has. Trade is driven not only in goods, but also in values, cooperation and change. That's one of them. On all these missions, we have more and more knowledge institutions, innovative SMEs and start-ups. Some parties easily think that only the big companies go along with those missions, but no, they are there to help the working Netherlands to earn other jobs, in a good way. That's one. That is why the SDGs are at the heart of the trade agenda. The second is that we do need trade agreements. It's just gonna stay that way. And this treaty, the CETA, which we will come back to, had long been negotiated out. My predecessor in the previous cabinet has worked hard for that. We see advantages in race to the top. If you say that the global economy, the change in the global economy, has consequences for the Netherlands, I say yes, of course. We need to talk government-wide about that. Trade is a small part of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u218	All right, let's finish. If I had to appoint a minister in the cabinet who is leading this, it would be this minister. The treaties it concludes and defends and the policies it implements have the most impact on the Netherlands. That is what free trade is all about. So is the Minister prepared to come to the Chamber with a letter on a comprehensive vision on the basis of which we can then discuss it, perhaps together with other ministers, such as those of Economic Affairs? 'Cause we have to talk about it, right? Surely we cannot continue on the same path and have no regard for its negative effects?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u219	Trade is a product. A treaty is an instrument for placing products, goods or services on the market, of course, also within the Netherlands, but in this case it is about foreign trade; I am not a ministry, I am Minister for Foreign Trade to shape on the basis of the rules of the game. I'll come back to it in second term, but I don't see how I'm going to have to have that conversation here. I'm in. I'd love to, but I'm not going to make a commitment about a letter containing my vision. This is a cabinet-wide conversation. I think we have a great deal of work to do in the Netherlands in view of all that remains to be done in this cabinet term. These are very important points: the consequences of globalisation, wage inequality...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u220	But then you answered the question. You don't have to come back to that in the second term, otherwise we're gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u221	No, but I see something's coming back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u222	I have three more topics that I would like to address. I'll start with the first one. I asked the Minister to raise our contribution to Gavi, which amounts to 50 million annually, by 5 million. I understand from the Minister's written reply that she does not have that money; otherwise it would be at the expense of other priorities. Now we have talked about extending the ODA budget to 0.7%. Would the Minister not want to examine for the coming year but for the years thereafter whether there is room to make an additional contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u223	The request is very reasonable and open-minded. Gavi is an important partner, but we do relatively more over all years than many countries that are now suddenly doubling. So we also need to look at consistency. But I think it is such a forward-looking request that I say: we can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u224	I thank the Minister for that; I am very pleased about that. Then I'll get on with my second part. Last year, Mr Voordewind and I tabled a motion on strengthening the rule of law. We have received excellent answers in writing. A good thing is being done to really shape that, but to my mind it is still quite occasional. Could the Minister indicate how it is actually, daily, part of our embassies to strengthen the rule of law in countries where it is much less than here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u225	I would like to say how much time do you have, Madam President? But in two senses: we have different funds, such as the Human Rights Fund, and it is part of the day job of the ambassadors at EU level. This is really what they call "bread and butter" from an embassy. I shall return to concrete examples in the second term. I also need to discuss the request for "more and clearer" but this is really part of the day job of an embassy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u226	It may be done in second term, but it may, as far as I am concerned, also be written in a letter after that. Because I really am dealing with a number of concrete examples. I'd just like to have a little more insight into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u227	Maybe in writing when it comes to examples that you don't have a discussion about right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u228	As far as I am concerned, that is excellent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u229	Fine. Then that's also... Yes, Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u230	Then there's my third topic. I have briefly said that I have a warm heart for people with disabilities in the countries where development cooperation takes place. I saw that with my own eyes last year when I was with Light for the World in Uganda. Then it struck me that people are having such a hard time there. In fact, my specific question is whether the Minister sees opportunities to take concrete and structural steps for people with disabilities in these countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u231	It is part of the policy, but it is not a separate theme in the sense of a fund and associated instruments. However, since the adoption of the international declaration or the international treaty on this matter, we have asked all the organisations we work with to pay particular attention to it. But I also know that it is not always consistent or visible. I'll give you that. That also depends on the implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u232	My last question, and then I'm through too. Does the Minister see opportunities to draw up criteria for this, for example, in order to give this a little more guidance? Because for me it does indeed hang in the air for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u233	I shall come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u234	I asked the Minister again in my first term. We have been trying to ask that question for two years now. I have also said that I can imagine that, as a new minister, you may not have had such a good idea of the damage done by the Dutch economy, and above all by trade policy, but after two years you may have a glimpse of it. If I then ask the Minister to reflect on the impact of the Dutch trade policy on vulnerable girls and women, I would mention palm oil that is crushed in that kind of international trade chains, and to reflect on the impact of that trade policy on food security, then I am surprised that it remains silent in the written answers. So I'm gonna give the minister one more chance here. Is she willing to look into that? Or does she persist in saying: I have a blind spot and I actually find it comfortable?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u235	No, I'm not saying I have a blind spot. Those are the words of Mrs Ouwehand. We just don't agree. There is a clear policy of the cabinet. There's a position. There's a budget. We systematically discuss this in all AO's. We look at sustainability and trade differently. We look differently at the rather abrupt choices proposed by Mrs Ouwehand. She will therefore receive an answer, but it will not be accepted. I'm not changing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u236	Then I think the Minister should make it clear what it will contribute to the fight against climate change if we conclude a deal with Canada that will allow Dutch cheese to be sold there and the pig rags to come here from Canada. If it is right, the Minister has been in her post for two years now, and the Minister knows that animal consumption and production pose a direct threat to climate and food security. It can also imagine that dragging food back and forth brings about climate change, because you have to transport food with ships or planes. Then explain what such a deal contributes to its own goals from the development agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u237	As Mrs Ouwehand well knows, I have a hat; that is foreign trade. I have a Directorate-General for Economic Relations and I have a Directorate-General for International Cooperation. Sometimes those tracks come together and sometimes they don't. In the case of Canada, this is a trade agreement with an equal partner. I will return to all the themes, but in any case I can say that trade with Canada will continue, unthinkingly whether CETA will be there or not. Goods are shipped or flown in. Together with Canada, we are working on the United Nations' climate goals and we are committed to sustainability. I would like to talk about specific pig patches and such in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u238	Mrs. Ouwehand, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u239	Yes, Chairman, finally. The Minister has had more than enough opportunities to take a serious look at this. In the end, she falls down, and I find that very sad, because she is responsible for what the Netherlands has to do for the most vulnerable in the world, in all the questions about the trade deals back to the creed we know from VNO-NCW: you have winners and you have losers. I say to the Minister: the losers are the vulnerable people, the climate, nature and animals. And the Minister looks away from it with a stare and ice cold.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u240	I have to say that every time it is suggested that I use words that I do not use. I don't think that's right. That's the first thing. Secondly, I find a description of my person, my expression or my gaze...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u241	I was just about to say something about that. Please keep the personal qualifications out of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u242	As a guest in the Chamber, I'm accountable. I am talking about my budget here. All other qualifications are not relevant to this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u243	That's right. No personal qualifications.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u244	What personal qualifications have I given here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u245	I'm not gonna repeat them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u246	But I think you should do that if you're accusing me...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u247	No, I'm not accusing you of anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u248	...that I personally attack the minister here, because I think I've explained her behavior. That's not personal. But she looks away. And you think that's personal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u249	No, Mrs. Ouwehand, I'm not going to argue with you. I just want us to stay here and I know you longer from today; you always have to stay away from the personal and a certain tone. That's not always nice. Not only for those involved, but also for the people. I don't always like it myself; let me put it this way. Besides, I want to keep it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u250	But that's something else. You will find the tone sharp, uncomfortable and uncomfortable. Yeah, we live in these times. But then you shouldn't suggest that I disqualified the Minister personally here, because I didn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u251	Mrs. Ouwehand, read the Acts. I'm going to see Mrs. Van Weerdenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u252	When we talk about CETA and possible major disadvantages for Dutch farmers, we often hear: yes, but the trade agreement is part of a larger whole, a geopolitical instrument, a strategic partnership with Canada. But that is precisely why Dutch farmers feel political change. My question is: what is against having a friendly nation like Canada? You just said yourself that trade with Canada with or without CETA will continue to sit at the table bilaterally and see what we can do to make our farmers happy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u253	Thanks for the question. In my view, this was included in one of Mrs Van Weerdenburg's questions, which are dealt with in writing. Of course, this also goes back to the foundation: if we did not already have the trade competence in the EU, you could have imagined that you would have just talked bilaterally with Canada. I could have, but I didn't. We are part of the internal market. The EU has the competence to negotiate in trade areas. We have influence as a Member State. We also exercised this, including with Parliament, between 2009 and 2014, and the Convention was signed in 2016. So I understand, but we're not in that world. This also gives me the opportunity to emphasise something in the direction of Mrs Van Weerdenburg. You said that the Cabinet rejected an offer from America to conclude a bilateral trade agreement, I assume that is the same idea. That's not true. We want to stay with the internal market. There is, of course, a fundamental difference in understanding the value of EU membership. There's nothing to turn down right now. We are only negotiating with the US within the EU, but I always have very good contacts with the US to say, as the Netherlands, how can we ease tensions? So there is another role for the Netherlands to see where space is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u254	Isn't that a total waste of the good contacts you have? We cannot even see what would be possible between two countries in the form of a bilateral treaty. Now the answer is really: sorry, we have already promised it to the EU, and that is the case. Then that is not necessarily better, because we will never know what else would have been possible. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u255	I honestly think that the Brexit already shows what the disadvantages are when you leave the EU: the economic consequences and the disruption. You know that, as a cabinet, like all other Cabinets, we attach great importance to the membership of the Netherlands in the EU, as do most of the Dutch citizens. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u256	For the record, we cannot see what will happen if the United Kingdom leaves the EU, because, unfortunately for them, they are not yet there. I had some other questions that haven't been answered. I've been waiting all those cubes neatly, but unfortunately those answers didn't come. I also asked a question about the case of Mali. The Minister has not yet answered that question. We received something in writing last night, but that was actually a ten-line summary of the AA we had on this subject. Actually, I didn't need it, because I was there. I specifically asked the Minister to give up such a risk-sharing calculation. For we have found that it is not the actual share. So I find it a little misleading. So I asked her to stop taking those risk-sharing calculations and I asked her to apologize because she actually made the assessment, which it turned out to be, in the letter of 2 July to the Chamber as a firm conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u257	The debate took place, among other things, on the basis of the efforts of Mrs Van Weerdenburg and Mr Van Haga. We've been communicating, writing and debating it extensively. Everything's been said. Apologies aren't on the table. We don't do budget support anymore. Risk shares can therefore no longer be used in this way. I just need to take a look at the numbers. I shall come back to the number in the second term, but we have not deceived anyone. On the contrary, we have pursued very transparent policies. We've pulled everything. And so far we are still the only donor country that has informed its own parliament at all, that has debated it and has spoken to the Malians. We have now also encouraged the World Bank and the EU to exercise much stricter control over all programmes and funding in Mali. More than this is not possible under the conditions of an integrated foreign policy, of course regardless of what Mrs Van Weerdenburg really wants, namely not investing in Mali at all, nor, of course, development cooperation. But we don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u258	Then the Minister didn't quite understand me. I didn't want to apologize for the fact that so many millions of taxpayers' money have been leaked out in Mali. Everyone is upset, the Minister too, but I wanted to apologize for the wrong information in the letter of 2 July. During the AO we found that his quotes from the minister himself were therefore not a fixed amount. She was talking about an assessment. She said, " approximative." It's "pooled funding." There is "no track and trace on Dutch money." In her reply last night, she said: it was the best possible approach to reality. Let me quote the letter of 2 July. It says: I conclude on the basis of the Canadian study that this is EUR 13.7 million. This means that the part of the Dutch budget support that may not have been well spent amounts to EUR 13.7 million. There's no doubt whether or not that's true. It doesn't say it's an assessment. So that's what I was apologizing for. I understand. We've found that you're not actually saying anything about it. You can't say: it's about so much or so much. But don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u259	I have nothing to add. We've had a long debate. We've written. I think this is a conversation with another purpose. But I have nothing more to add to the substance. I'll stick with that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u260	You can't do this, can you? I'm quoting the minister. I now have two letters from her containing things that aren't the same. I know she's upset, but it's not that hard, is it? Let's just agree that we're not doing this whole risk assessment thing anymore. Then we don't have to stand here anymore about this kind of...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u261	The comical thing is that an attempt has been made to make a risk calculation because the Chamber wanted to know up to the cent what had been spent. We've done our best to tell you what the estimate of the amount is. We have also debated this extensively, so risk assessment, no. But we have also asked the World Bank and others, in compliance with a request from the Chamber, whether they can calculate the risk share of indirect budget support that is still running in countries such as Mali or elsewhere, through the EU or the World Bank. Unfortunately, this conversation is not over, but this is the best that the cabinet has been able to give. So I have nothing to add.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u262	That's right. The Minister has promised to have that checked out, because together we found that it was indeed not complete. The PVV has also spent quite a lot of time on this. We have been able to well argue why the calculation was incorrect, incomplete and inadequate for the firm conclusion that was attached to it. So I think it is a bit unfortunate that the Minister here now, while we are in plenary and watching the Netherlands or not, seems to be backing down a bit. That is not the way forward, I would say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u263	You have made your point, I think, Mrs Van Weerdenburg. So it's clear. Then I'll go to Mr. Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u264	In another category, a final question about what Mr Stoffer asked at the beginning of this debate, namely how we can help the Palestinian people. We recently read that the Palestinian youth left the country hopelessly. A motion on the autonomous economy was adopted in the Foreign Affairs budget. The question to the Minister is: how can we help these people with the energy supply, financial systems and the promotion of exports, so that these young people have a perspective of income towards the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u265	That is a very important issue, which, of course, falls entirely within the scope of the note. Quite specifically, I hope to make a journey to both Israel and the Palestinian territories. In particular, it will be a trade mission to Israel. I will also have contacts with MASHAV, the development organisation of Israel, which I know very well. In the Palestinian territories, we are going to see what we can do with young people. Our embassy in Tel Aviv and the office in Ramallah are working hard to find out. So I'm sharing that. It's incredibly important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u266	Is there another commitment in this context in which the Netherlands is working together with Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u267	I can confirm that in writing or in second place. There's a lot going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u268	Fine. Thank you. This brings us to the end of the government's first term. I'm suspending the meeting for two minutes. Then we proceed with the second term on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u269	We will continue with the discussion of the budget for external trade and development cooperation. We have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Van Weerdenburg on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u270	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You will not be surprised that the PVV is not satisfied with the answer given by this minister, and certainly not with its policy. The PVV would much rather spend the billions for development aid on keeping hospitals, more teachers and more blue on the streets, in the Netherlands. This cabinet prefers to spend all these billions of euros on insane climate measures in Africa. Madness. This has to stop. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Dutch have traditionally been very generous and can very well decide for themselves whether and to what charity they want to donate their money to;]] [[calls on the government not to spend another penny on development aid,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Weerdenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVII-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u271	Mr. Chairman. Dan Mali. The Minister is being unnecessarily difficult. The best way to put an end to the leaking of Dutch tax money at the final destination is to turn the money tap firmly. She doesn't have to travel to Mali to beg the Malian rulers on her knees if they would please take action. It disappoints the PVV that the Minister continues to deny that she has informed the Chamber incorrectly and incompletely with the improper calculation of the share of Dutch taxpayers' money spent unlawfully in Mali. The risk share with which she deceived the Chamber and the public was merely an assessment, a guess. The Minister himself has repeatedly admitted that she cannot say with any certainty how much of the 265 million euros that the Netherlands has spent on bilateral budget support to Mali has been wrongly spent. As a Chamber, we have seen that the Minister's information on this point has been incomplete and incorrect. Nevertheless, the Minister continues to refuse to just admit it and make excuses. She's even backtracking now, we just saw. Disappointing. Hence the next motion to call on the Minister to stick to the established facts in future. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Court is perfectly capable of interpreting and drawing conclusions from the information on irregular expenditure and possible malpractice;]] [[Calls on the Government to limit itself to stating facts and figures when providing information on possible malpractices or otherwise irregular expenditure of funds and to refrain from drawing conclusions on the basis of estimates, in particular by calculating a Dutch risk share,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weerdenburg and Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVII-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u272	I have one more motion on trade, Mr. Chairman. Dutch is a trading nation and should always engage in dialogue as a foreign government informs about the possibilities of a bilateral trade agreement. This cabinet must stop hiding behind the EU and stand up for our national interest. This Minister refuses to explore the possibilities of bilateral trade deals. The PVV finds that absurd. Such an attitude damages the Dutch economy. The PVV wants the cabinet to engage seriously in talks at bilateral level when, for example, a country such as the United States seeks dialogue to explore the possibilities of a possible bilateral trade agreement with the Netherlands. The PVV is pressing the Minister: please pick up the phone next time the Americans call. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas last year the United States sought the dialogue to explore the possibilities of a bilateral trade agreement with the Netherlands and the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation refused to enter into this dialogue;]] [[calls on the Government, if informed by a foreign government about the possibilities of a bilateral trade agreement with the Netherlands, to engage seriously in bilateral talks to explore the possibilities and to report to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Weerdenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVII-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u273	Finally, Mr President. I have been in The Hague for thirteen years in various ways. If I've learned anything, it's that if you hand out, you should be able to collect. Last night's Minister's written reply shows that she knows it herself. She even spends taxpayers' money to stimulate opposition to Dutch policy, because that keeps her sharp. The PVV is known as a constructive party, so I am making the Minister the offer that she can always call me when she is shy about contradicting her policy. I'd like to be prepared for that, free of charge and for nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u274	Thank you, Mrs Van Weerdenburg. I now give the floor to Mr Weverling on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u275	Mr. Chairman. We have had a good debate so far with a generally satisfactory response from Minister Kaag. However, I am also looking forward to the second-term response. It has been said quite often: I will come back to that in the second term. Unfortunately, we will not be able to respond after that, so I trust that will work out. However, I would like to draw attention once again to the spending of taxpayers' money, which is actually intended for development cooperation, on organisations that are opposed to Dutch government policy. There is an answer to that in itself: we need a contradiction. Yeah, that's obvious. That is vital for a democracy. I am not going to table a motion on this, but I would like to discuss it again with the Minister. How can we make that clearer? For a taxpayer, it is crazy to fight cabinet policy with money that should actually end up in a developing country. Then I would also like to hear an answer to the question of why development money goes to China or Kazakhstan. I assume there will be an answer to that later. I am pleased to hear that at least 33% of the finances spent go to the focus and that we will be there before the end of this cabinet period. Then I assume that we are sitting through this cabinet period and that the money earmarked for focus regions goes from 25% to at least 33%. Then SMEs. Of course, that would like to export externally. Exporting is usually external. That's what wants to cross the border. Motions on trade promotion for SMEs have been adopted. That's still a mess for a lot of parties. I trust that the Minister, as she has promised, will look well and with practical glasses at how an entrepreneur, who is really much more practical in the world than people in the Hague often do, can be helped. I've asked questions about start-ups and an international platform. I had the idea to file a motion about taking start-ups to the World Economic Forum. The World Economic Forum is of course about its own invitation policy, but I would like the Minister to reconsider how she can get that knowledge and skills of start-ups on the beautiful platform of the World Economic Forum from the Netherlands. Together with Mr Amhaouch, I have tabled an amendment to free up EUR 2 million for regional development companies to internationalise more for SMEs in order to ultimately give these regional development companies more hands and feet in supporting small and medium-sized enterprises. We think that is very important, so I would like to hear the opinion on the Minister's amendment. I have tabled my own amendment on EUR 4 million for cross-border innovation cooperation to address societal challenges such as food security, agri-food and water management, local and global innovative solutions. I would like to see two pilots funded to get innovative cooperation projects off the ground. I have just tabled that amendment. Finally, I have one motion. I don't need the remaining 9 minute 50, Mr. President, so don't be afraid. The motion is about concessional financing. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that there is a strong need to strengthen economic infrastructure both in the least developed countries and in the middle-income countries and that such investment is almost possible only if sufficient concessional funding is available;]] [[Whereas the current concessional financing instruments made available by the government are too restrictive to meet this need;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how more concessional funding with a larger project size can contribute to the development of the economy of the least developed and middle income countries and how such financing solutions can be implemented within existing and future instruments to be used for this purpose,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Weverling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVII-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u276	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u277	You tried to talk as slowly as you could. You were neat in time. Thank you. I will now go to Mrs Diks on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u278	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, of course, to the Minister for the first answer and also for the written reply. I imagine it took the support late at night a lot of time and effort to find it. Thank you for that. The Minister, like us, was right to point out that extreme poverty is still increasing, including in Africa. We have seen that giving cash instantly, cash in cash, is a very good and very effective way to deal with this. We're already doing this through the United Nations. I think it is also very good that we are doing so, but we see that other donors like the United Kingdom also use it very well as a means within their own policies. In our view, this is part of the future of development cooperation and poverty reduction, also because of the fact that there is, of course, a beautiful technological component to it. We believe that the Netherlands should not be left behind, but should be proactive or more proactive. We can very well use the knowledge and expertise of Dutch tech companies. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the current projections indicate that we are not going to meet the SDG 1 targets and that 500 million people will still be living in extreme poverty by 2030;]] [[Whereas several studies show that direct donation of money to poor households has proved to be a very effective instrument in the fight against poverty;]] [[Whereas the digital revolution leads to transformations in Africa and can be used to innovatively send money to poor households and measure their impact;]] [[Calls on the Government to launch an experiment in one of the African focus countries to consider how Dutch bilateral development cooperation can effectively use cash transfers as one of the tools for poverty reduction, and to inform the Court of Justice about this for the Spring paper,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Diks, Mr Ouwehand and Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVII-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u279	In the area of private climate finance, I am very pleased that the Minister has promised to try to give the Chamber more insight into exactly how the lever works and how this actually relates to additionality. How does the system actually work and how can the Chamber better control it? Thank you for that. I had also asked about the contribution to the Green Climate Fund, where we per capita, so per capita, but now it is becoming very complicated, more than three times as little contribution as comparable European countries. Does the Minister intend to mobilise resources in the spring note to raise this contribution? Then we had another question about export credits. It is good that the Minister is also committed to greening, but given the fact that global emissions continue to increase, we need to phase out fossil investment really quickly. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands contributes to further investments in the fossil industry in the world through export credit insurance;]] [[Whereas global greenhouse gas emissions continue to increase and the climate targets of the Paris Agreement are therefore at risk of becoming unachievable;]] [[considers that supporting fossil investments through export credit insurance is inconsistent with the objectives of the Cabinet in the climate field;]] [[calls on the government to set up a coalition with similar countries in order to phase out export credit insurance in favour of investments in fossil energy as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Diks, Mr Van den Hul and Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVII-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u280	Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to hear the Minister's views on the amendment aimed at combating female circumcision. I've been working on it a little bit more, and it's really unbelievable. We in the Netherlands must do much more about this. That is why I have tabled an amendment on it. I also have a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u281	My question concerns that Diks/Van den Hul amendment. Where was GroenLinks when my colleague Fleur Agema wanted to end looking away from girl circumcision in the Netherlands? She has tabled a motion to put an end to this barbaric, medieval practice once and for all, which GroenLinks did not support last Tuesday. Aren't you a total hypocrite? You are now being very decisive about preventing girl circumcision in Africa, but why are the girls in Africa more important than those in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u282	I wouldn't suppose for a moment that there's a difference between a girl here and a girl there. We all know that, as you pointed out, the barbaric, medieval practice of circumcision of girls is not based on anything, only on tradition and assumptions, and is horrific. We all really need to do more about that than we do now. We see that practice is expanding worldwide. It's more or less exported. That's really horrible...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u283	But the question was about the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u284	Apart from the fact that practice is expanding, we also see that practice is growing in the Netherlands. We have to do something about that, too. I cannot now read Mrs Agema's motion for a resolution as to why GroenLinks did not support the motion, but we are now in the BuHa-OS budget. And now I'm at least standing up for the girls in developing countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u285	Mrs Van Weerdenburg, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u286	Okay, Mrs. Diks is right. It is a bit faint, but perhaps she could ask Mr Van den Hul, because the PvdA supported the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u287	There may have been a consideration that we do not agree with, but I think I have clearly indicated that we need to take action against girl circumcision. Mr. Chairman. Very quickly, my third motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that in recent years the Dutch development bank FMO has been called into question on several occasions for acting in violation of imvo standards, for example by cooperating in abuses on palm oil plantations and through involvement in violence against environmental activists;]] [[noting that FMO is currently examining the compliance with imvo standards over the years 2013-2018;]] [[calls on the government to make explicit recommendations on FMO's future compliance with imvo standards, e.g. through independent supervision, when examining the compliance of FMO standards,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Diks and Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVII-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u288	Mr President, thank you. Thank you to the Minister for replying. We are discussing an important budget here to provide people with perspective, combat poverty and organise stability in regions. I should like to touch briefly on a number of points. We have received a written reply on tuberculosis. The Minister is considering the future design of PDPs and also looks explicitly at the added value of the Dutch commitment. Can it be taken into account in good time before decisions are taken? Mr. Chairman. Then attention to people with disabilities. It is good that the Netherlands encourages NGOs and UN partners to apply standards and guidelines in the planning and implementation of humanitarian programmes and to monitor their use. Can we also understand the progress of this? In what way and in what programmes is the inclusion of people with disabilities explicitly included as a condition? The biggest point of my contribution was trafficking in human beings. An international manhunt is needed for criminals who make a business model of underprivileged people. Trafficking in human beings is a multifaceted monster, which has to be tackled from different policy areas, including through development cooperation, because this is precisely where human trafficking begins for many people. Much is already being done in the programme Together Against Trafficking in Human Beings, but I want to focus more on the root causes of trafficking in human beings. The recognition and prevention of trafficking in human beings is crucial. We need to tackle the problem at the root. That's why I'm tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that trafficking in human beings is a multifaceted monster, which must be combated from a variety of disciplines;]] [[noting that the ILO has examined an estimated 40 million victims of trafficking in human beings each year, earning EUR 150 billion;]] [[Whereas root causes of migration and root causes of human trafficking may intersect;]] [[Whereas the BuHa-OS policy can play an important role in front of the trafficking chain, namely in preventing, identifying and identifying trafficking networks, and in involving victims in combating trafficking in human beings;]] [[Whereas combating trafficking in human beings must be done by addressing its causes and by setting up a zero tolerance policy towards traffickers;]] [[Calls on the Minister to identify, within the approach to the root causes of migration, ways of strengthening the recognition, alerting and prevention of trafficking in human beings and to report these results and recommendations to the Court;]] [[calls on the Minister to step up the approach to trafficking in human beings in cooperation with the source and transition countries and multilateral organisations on the basis of these results in the framework of the State-wide strategy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuik and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVII-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u289	May I have a sip first, Mr. Chairman? It's not gonna take my time, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u290	A sip of water will not go away from your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u291	Mr. Chairman. I have one minute and I don't need to speak quickly, because I don't have any motions. I would like to thank the Minister for answering the questions and for the fact that this cabinet has a clear trade agenda. That is one of the most important things we need if we want to continue to secure our prosperity towards the future. It is a good thing that the Minister shows the ambition to get Invest International operational in 2020 and that the implementation of the Africa Strategy is now being speeded up, following the example of the SME Netherlands, VNO-NCW and all other companies. I think we're going to benefit a great deal from that. Mr Weverling has already said that we have tabled an amendment together. We want SMEs in all regions of the Netherlands to become more internationalised towards Germany and Belgium, and rather outside Europe, because that is where the growth is. I still have one concern: the world is on the move and a lot is coming towards us, including in the area of trade. Can the Minister take our care away? Is her ministry ready for the future, so we can keep picking up all the challenges that come to us?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u292	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u293	I have five seconds left, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u294	I now give the floor to Mr Alkaya on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u295	Mr. Chairman. In view of the limited speaking time, I shall simply read out my motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that a binding UN Convention on Business and Human Rights, i.e. the UN Binding Treaty on Business and Human Rights, has been under discussion since 2014;]] [[Notes that a number of developed countries with many large companies are currently refusing to participate in this process, including Canada, the US and Australia;]] [[calls on the Government, in its diplomatic contacts with the countries concerned, to encourage their participation in the negotiation process for this binding UN Convention,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the EU-Canada Free Trade Agreement (CETA) includes a special dispute settlement system between multinational investors and the government;]] [[considers that in the event of a dispute, multinational investors should follow the regular course of justice, as well as citizens and SME entrepreneurs;]] [[does not agree to free trade agreements if they contain a separate legal arbitration system where only multinationals can start a business,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Alkaya and Mr Diks. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVII-35]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Alkaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVII-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u296	Thanks to the election programme of the Christian Union, which inspired this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to develop a vision of the negative impact of globalisation on Dutch citizens and the economy, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Alkaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVII-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u297	Finally. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that Shell settled with the Nigerian Government in 2015 on cleaning up the heavy pollution caused by the company in the Niger Delta, but that too little has been done since then, preventing access to clean drinking water in large parts;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the state of the cleaning and to inform the Court of Justice;]] [[calls on the Government to exclude Shell from trade missions and other forms of economic diplomacy until full compliance with the commitments made,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Alkaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVII-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u298	We've done a great deal!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u299	Yes, you have 17 seconds left. Mr Amhaouch, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u300	We have had a debate on Foreign Trade and OS, but when it comes to trade, I never hear Mr Alkaya talking about trade. That's a little weird. I spoke about this yesterday in the debate on Tata Steel. That has become a reality. Last night, the message came out and the sad announcement was made that 1,650 people are indeed being sent to the door, that they are being dismissed. I ask again what the SP has brought into this debate in order to strengthen the trading position of the Netherlands, so that we have more jobs in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u301	The CDA is looking for a link that isn't there. In my view, we even raised trade barriers against China with the support of the CDA when that country dumped steel on the European market. The current consequences for the company Tata Steel have nothing to do with free trade agreements. With their biggest export market, the United States, they now have a problem, but we do not have a free trade agreement at all. You use the minister within the current framework to convince the US government that Dutch products are of good quality and sound. And we have even tabled motions together with the VVD to do that economic diplomacy. I already told you. Tata Steel has nothing whatsoever to do with what we discussed in this debate on free trade.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u302	Finally. Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u303	Finally, after that, I do sit down. It's got everything to do with it. It has nothing to do specifically with Tata Steel. It's just a specific example. It is always a question of how we can strengthen our trading position, even in this debate on trade. I just never hear the SP about that. I only hear about countermeasures, never about the commitment to strengthening our competitiveness.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u304	Let me say this again, and finally, really. I think Mr Amhaouch fully understands me. When we talk about the trading system, we criticise the rules, the international institutions and the regulators. They are unfair, as are the conventions concluded and the provisions on animal welfare and on workers' rights. Those provisions are there to exploit workers. We want to fight them. That whole system is unfair. We continue to fight for fair trade and fair trade agreements that will fight this unfair system. Dutch companies are doing well within this system and supply good products. And the minister plays a role in promoting those good products abroad, but also in solving global problems. The minister himself called the cleaning of the river Ganges. Such an assignment is not brought in if the government does not interfere with it, I can imagine. So I did not complain about that, but about the unfair system. And I will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u305	I'm sure you'll meet again in other debates. Then you can continue to discuss Tata Steel. I am going to Mr Bouali on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u306	Thank you, Madam President. I have put the comb through my text to see if there is no French, English or German word in between, but I think it is only Dutch words.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u307	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u308	Madam President. I would like to thank the Minister for answering the questions and for the good debate we have had here. On Tuesday I talked about the involvement of Dutch young entrepreneurs to create a sustainable trading chain in the production of coffee. This morning I spoke to children from the 7th grade here at the Square in The Hague. They wanted to work for fair clothing and thus contribute to a better world. So very nice to see how that awareness and ambition starts wide in the Netherlands early on. Madam President. It's not just visible in these kids. It is good to see that there is also support in this Chamber to work on this 0.7 standard and that support in the Chamber is also growing. As far as D66 is concerned, the need for development cooperation in this world cannot be repeated often enough. Then climate. D66 welcomes the increase in Minister Kaag's budget for the wider climate. The D66 proposal to create a climate fund of 40 million a year is currently being implemented in this minister's policy. That's very nice and good news. Minister Kaag also spoke about the reinforced commitment of the cabinet to counter deforestation. In this context, I look forward to the Minister's assessment of the amendment I tabled on deforestation, to explicitly deploy 5 million to combat deforestation worldwide, to strengthen and sustain local agriculture in these areas. Can it indicate whether it will and can continue to use this amount for the following years? After all, this budget and my amendment are only about 2020, and as far as D66 is concerned, we are going to use this amount every year against deforestation. Mr. Chairman. The Minister indicated that she wanted to make available, albeit modestly and symbolically, a sum for the refugee crisis in Lesbos. That's good news. My D66 colleague Maarten Groothuizen has also drawn attention to this very often. Unfortunately, thousands of refugees worldwide live in terrible conditions: whether Venezuelan refugees are in Colombia or the millions of people fleeing the Middle East or the Rohingya in Asia. We must continue to pay attention to this in this Chamber; we also encourage the Minister to do so. Mr. Chairman. Finally, imvo. It is good that the Netherlands is taking the lead in Europe. The Minister indicated that there would be an EU action plan in the field of imvo. Can she tell us when we can expect this? I also heard the Minister say that the cabinet intends to resume the financing of UNRWA, as envisaged, on the basis of results of discussions and a careful procedure. As far as D66 is concerned, that sounds like a careful approach and we therefore wholeheartedly support it. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u309	Thank you, Mr. Bouali. I now give the floor to Mrs Van den Hul on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u310	Mr. Chairman. The thread behind the debates we have had in recent days on foreign trade and development cooperation is inequality. Unequality that we unfortunately see growing worldwide instead of decreasing. We see this inequality in many different places, in many different ways. We see them in our own country. I'm an adoptive mother of SDG 5 and in that capacity, along with Mrs Diks, I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands has committed itself to the Beijing Platform for Action agenda, aimed at strengthening the position of girls and women;]] [[noting that, despite interim evaluations, it is currently unclear whether and how the Netherlands is going to achieve the objectives of this agenda;]] [[calls on the government to make clear, in the forthcoming mid-term review of the Beijing Agenda, what the government-wide gender strategy is to achieve effectively the obligations arising from the Beijing Platform for Action,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul and Mr Diks. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVII-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u311	Unfortunately, the Netherlands also sometimes contributes to this inequality, for example with Dutch companies that avoid tax. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas low and middle income countries are highly dependent and are entitled to tax revenues from companies making profits within their national borders;]] [[noting that companies registered in the Netherlands together have recently become the second largest investor on the African continent;]] [[noting that the CPB claims that the Netherlands continues to act as a transit country, leading to a loss of tax revenue elsewhere;]] [[calls on the Government to evaluate existing anti-abuse provisions within tax treaties, while clarifying their impact on the fight against tax avoidance;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Court annually of how often and with what follow-up steps anti-abuse provisions are invoked in tax treaties,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul, Mr Alkaya and Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVII-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u312	Mr. Chairman. I told you, we can choose that fair world. That's a matter of choice. But then we'll all have to do it. And then the whole cabinet has to go. The Minister said that in her ideal world, transparency on SDG might go even further. To help her with that, here's the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands has committed itself to achieving the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals;]] [[Whereas it is important to understand how different ministries contribute to these development goals;]] [[calls on the government to make it easy to understand in new policies which development objectives contribute to policies and thereby raise awareness about sustainable development goals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van den Hul, Mr Stoffer and Mr Diks. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVII-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u313	Finally, Mr President, I would like to comment on the imvo commitment to embassies. We are pleased that steps are being taken in relation to the directives. But we would also like to take a step in terms of capacity and commitment, in line with a number of recent opinions that have appeared on this front. I have tabled an amendment on this point. We will also table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas embassies play a key role in sustainable economic diplomacy;]] [[noting that the Economic and Social Council (SER) recommends a broader and deeper integration of corporate social responsibility and sustainable development objectives within economic diplomacy;]] [[noting that the International Research and Policy Review Board (IOB) states that there is still much to be improved in terms of knowledge and commitment at embassies for corporate social responsibility;]] [[calls on the government, in line with the above-mentioned opinion and report, to optimise the knowledge and commitment at embassies on promoting corporate social responsibility and the impact on sustainable development goals, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul and Mr Diks. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVII-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u314	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for her answers and for addressing in particular the root causes of migration, a situation with which we now have to deal. I would also like to thank her for her response to the issue of the Challenge Fund and ARC. I understand that for 16 out of 23 projects ARC continues until 2022. So we look forward to the good mix of business and NGOs, including the Challenge Fund that is now starting. I have high expectations of that. I have also drawn attention to the most vulnerable in my contribution. I welcome the commitment of the Minister on Lesbos and the refugees there. There are gruesome stories known even now we hear that from the eating of toes by rats and so on. I am glad that at least the Minister is paying attention to this. I'm waiting for her to show me exactly what she's coming up with. Then a comment on the reception of refugees via Dutch Relief Alliance. The Minister stated in the written reply that she wanted to be flexible in dealing with this aid. I get that. At the same time, DRA can also be used flexibly. So should it be so that next year, perhaps the second half of the year, DRA will have an underexhaustment, I would very much appreciate it if the Minister could look at that. Finally, the fight against child prostitution. Mrs Kuik and I have tabled an amendment on this for 5 million. We really hope that at least some of them can be used in the fight against the terrible child prostitution, through the beautiful programmes of some NGOs. I therefore hope for the support of the Chamber and the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u315	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u316	Thank you, Mr President. If you're standing for vulnerable values, you're gonna have to do something, too. The Animal Party has been trying to awaken this minister for two years now, but it is stuck in its neoliberal vision of the world, where when it comes to improving, everything you would like to do is to stand up for human rights, climate, biodiversity, a fair distribution of food in the world being sacrificed on the altar of the economy. The short-term economic interests of the Netherlands and the commercial policy are far more important to this minister than those values, which she speaks of so beautifully warm words about. Mr President, a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas in 2020 the Netherlands has the lowest development budget since 1969;]] [[noting that it is the wish of the House of Representatives to pursue an ODA budget of 0.7% of gross national income;]] [[noting that structural cuts in the ODA budget have been made in recent years;]] [[points out that the Netherlands must continue its efforts to address poverty, inequality and the root causes of forced migration;]] [[Calls on the Government to develop a concrete roadmap to have an ODA budget of net 0.7% of GNI by 2025;]] [[calls on the government to take a first step towards achieving this goal by reversing three structural cuts in the forthcoming Spring Note, namely the ESA correction, ECI reservation and exchange rate targets, so that the annual ODA budget is increased by 462 million earlier than 2025,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand, Mr Diks, Mr Alkaya, Mr Van den Hul and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVII-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u317	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u318	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u319	Mr President, I shall begin with two motions. The first is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas NGOs and businesses do not always take sufficient account of accessibility for people with disabilities;]] [[calls on the government to add special criteria to the new subsidy frameworks for NGOs and businesses for the involvement of people with disabilities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVII-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u320	The second motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a possibility that the Dutch contributions to UNRWA will remain frozen, or will be frozen in the future, if corruption and mismanagement within the organisation have not been or appear to have been resolved;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how, in this case, financial support can benefit directly from essential care, for example through the Augusta Victoria Hospital in East Jerusalem,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVII-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u321	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering all our questions. I also welcome the commitment on the motion tabled by Mr Voordewind and myself to provide us with some concrete examples of how we are dealing with promoting and strengthening the rule of law in countries we are focusing on. In addition, I have an amendment for good mother and child care. The Minister and I will not always agree on the content, but I would also like to stress the need for alternatives to prevent abortion. I am very curious to see what the assessment of that amendment will be, and I look forward to that assessment. Finally, Mr President. I had another motion in preparation with Mr Van Haga on additional funds for Gavi, but the Minister made such a fine undertaking that we will not table that motion. Because a promise from the Minister is worth at least as much to us as a motion that is being adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u322	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u323	So we're just gonna leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u324	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u325	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It remains a major problem that the Dutch entrepreneur suffers from the fact that there is no coordinated defence against false competition from abroad. The various ministries all take different measures, but the overall package is ultimately disastrous for the Dutch SME's and Dutch shopkeepers. There are also largely bureaucratic rules coming from Europe that do not help our business but hinder our business. Competition from abroad via online platforms such as Alibaba is unfair and undesirable and must be stopped. That's why my first motion on increasing transport costs. I shall table this motion together with Mr Old Hand; I was paying close attention yesterday. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that billions of packages per year are sent from all over the world to the Netherlands;]] [[noting that the transport costs or costs shipping costs are disproportionately low;]] [[Whereas this is accompanied by significant CO emissions;]] [[Whereas this also leads to unfair competition with Dutch entrepreneurs;]] [[calls on the Government to take measures to ensure that transport costs or costs are met. shipping costs for shipments from abroad going up,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVII-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u326	I have another motion on the harmonization of rules, directives and standards. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is an uneven playing field not only at global level but also within the European Union, including national headlines on European policies;]] [[noting furthermore that Dutch entrepreneurs suffer from the unequal playing field created by this;]] [[calls on the government to work with all responsible ministries to harmonise rules, directives and standards within the EU,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVII-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u327	Mr. Chairman. In optima forma, the steel quotas and the steel impase in which we now find ourselves show the failure of the EU. This is tragic, because the EU should make a difference in terms of trade and unfair competition. The Minister said something about this in her introduction. Entrepreneurs must be protected from state capitalism through the EU, but steel does not work. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that due to the current import quota on European steel, the market has been seriously disrupted and has thereby been disproportionately affected by Dutch companies;]] [[noting that the Netherlands has tried in vain to increase the quota on wire rod steel;]] [[Whereas it may be of great importance for the Dutch companies to monitor the import quota against competition;]] [[calls on the Government, in cooperation with its European counterparts, and in particular the Commissioner for Competition, to draw up a plan of action and to use all its ministerial powers to get out of this steel gap,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVII-48]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u328	Mr. Chairman. I continue to find it unjust that we give millions to organizations that then sue against the government with this money. Others have already said something about this. That there is contradiction, of course, is fine, but then finance it nicely out of your own pocket. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Dutch taxpayers' money is used to subsidise different institutions;]] [[noting that several institutions receiving grants actively oppose democratic policies and in some cases even sue against the government that grants them;]] [[whereas freedom of expression applies to all, but subsidised activities should contribute to, or be in line with, government policies;]] [[considers that the public authorities have a duty to guarantee freedom of expression, but not to subsidise it;]] [[calls on the Government to stop subsidies to institutions actively litigating against government or otherwise opposing government policies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVII-49]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u329	I have a question about the motion. Mr Van Haga talks about 'institutions'. So I understand that companies can also be included. Companies must therefore also act in line with the cabinet objectives, such as compliance with the Paris Agreement. Otherwise, they won't get a grant. Am I getting that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u330	Well, the motion is meant to facilitate counter-force at least, but not to subsidise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u331	- Even with companies? - Yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u332	Well, if you want to take it very generously. If a company gets a grant and then goes to trial against government policy, I think it would be reasonable to take that in the same line, yes. Look, I...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u333	Do you have any more motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u334	No. Shall I just move on, then?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u335	Yeah, that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u336	Yeah, I can feel the pressure. Dan Gavi. Together with Mr Stoffer, I intended to table a motion to release 5 million for Gavi, but Mr Stoffer has committed an extremely clever interruption and made a commitment to this. That's enough for us. It's very nice to have money released for Gavi in the long run. We don't know exactly when and we'd like to hear in second term when exactly that comes. In any case, thank you for this firm commitment. Mr. Chairman. One final comment on the fact that this minister has gained experience in several countries. Maybe I felt a little talked to myself, too. I think it's an advantage that there's someone on this wallet who has some knowledge of things. I do not always agree with this Minister, but I am glad that she has gained some relevant work experience for this. The comparison with Amsterdam Nieuw-West, I still laugh very much about that. We see where it can lead if incompetent people with weird ideologies start to rule a country. I very much invite Mr Alkaya to go to Venezuela. We have spoken with Venezuelan refugees and we see where his ideas ultimately lead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u337	Were you ready, Mr. Van Haga?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u338	No, almost.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u339	Then I suggest you finish your second term first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u340	Mr. Chairman. In conclusion, the key to solving much of the misery experienced by Dutch entrepreneurs lies with this minister. I would therefore urge her to take this responsibility to heart. That was the end of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u341	A brief question, Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u342	Well, that was entrapment, Mr. Chairman. Look, the minister makes the policy that affects all kinds of people's neighborhoods in the Netherlands, including Amsterdam Nieuw-West. Mr Van Haga takes decisions on this, so I would just like to invite him not only to stay in his fenced environments but also to get into those neighborhoods where he has so many buildings, to see the effects of the decisions he makes. Then he would also understand my calls and my points better and not come up with this kind of nonsense.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u343	This is kind of nice. My point is that I am a little disturbed by the fact that we sometimes display a lack of respect for expertise. That is not only here, but it also happens in round tables. Then you have a round table where professors on trade agreements come to explain what the Investment Court System is. Then at that point, we have some modesty. In that light, I found your comment on the fact that this minister has worked in many different countries, out of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u344	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u345	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u346	This brings us to the end of the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u347	I shall suspend the sitting until 2:40 p.m. and then we shall vote first and then we shall have the order of business. Then we move on to the second term on the Minister's side.
