ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the Act on the Prohibition of Coal in Electricity Production, Section 35167. A warm word of welcome to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate. Thank you for joining us. We have ten speakers from the Chamber, all of whom have requested speaking time for about ten minutes. The first is Mrs Beckerman of the SP Group. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. I have mixed feelings about the law before me today. In 2007 I became a member of the State in Groningen and just before that, D66 Minister Laurens Jan Brinkhorst had decided that new coal plants could be built in the Netherlands. But the battle had not yet been fought. Provincies should grant the necessary permits, and my group and I fought to prevent a coal power station from coming into the Eemshaven. It would be right next to the Wadden Sea and the emissions would be huge. The investment also: EUR 2.6 billion for the RWE plant alone. It was gonna be a tough fight. The coal power plant was going to emit as much as 3 million cars, but the advocates had devised a plan for that. Because, for example, those power stations were sold to us by Diederik Samsom among others, these would become climate-neutral power stations and not the classic greenhouse guns; no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, these power stations, as we were told, were "capture ready." When I asked what "capture ready" means then, I was told: that actually means we're releasing a little bit of space in case we ever know how to capture and store CO. Yes, Chairman, and that never happened. They did turn out to be classic greenhouse guns. In 2008, the building permit was granted, but we continued to fight. On December 8, 2010 I walked in an ice-cold torch ride through the Eemshaven. And again in 2011 there was hope that the battle could be won: the Council of State destroyed the permit for construction. Unfortunately, the hope disappeared when GroenLinks-deputee Wiebe van der Ploeg got a temporary permit to continue the construction that same year. It's possible. Now I didn't feel that I was very old or politically active for a very long time, but to see so quickly that the party that brought three coal power plants into the market, now that the party that shuts them down, is at least remarkable. You could think: the glass is half full, be happy; you've been against it for 12 years. Yes, I'm very much in favour of stopping coal, and yet I have mixed feelings about this. Rob Jetten is super proud that the coal power stations close and posed a big smile in front of the Hemweg plant with a raised thumb, less than twelve years after his own minister had three coal power stations built. Mr. Chairman. You can conclude that the greatest victories are sometimes victories on yourself; pounding against yourself and thumbs up. And yet I'm very disappointed. There are people, people who provide us with energy, people who thought that because the politics had these power stations built, they had a certain job. People with dreams, people with families, people with fixed burdens. Have a good laugh, for such a power station, where people aren't sure of their future because of you. Thumbs up. The employees of the coal plants and their suppliers deserve our full support and great respect. Without workers no energy, without workers no energy transition. But nothing is certain for these employees. It's not gonna be okay automatically. Does the Minister agree with the SP? Why is there only one sentence in the law on employees? Why? Why pay attention to the owners, but not to the employees and their disadvantage compensation? A coal fund has now begun. Does the Minister agree with the SP that this is just a start? And does the Minister agree with the SP that compensation should be provided for workers who cannot make the transition or earn less in a new job? Does the Minister agree with the SP that much more attention should be paid to workers who lose their jobs as a result of the energy transition? Mr President, I am very much in favour of stopping coal and it is good to see that the parties that built the coal-fired power stations are returning to their mistakes. But this is a time to learn. The construction of the coal plants cost about EUR 6 billion. Millions have been spent on public money, including 15.3 million to store CO. There'll be billions more. In the meantime, 3.6 billion grants have been earmarked for biomass aid. That's public money, what people make through their high energy bills. Money that could also have been used for sustainable and safe energy, for jobs that were certain. And now, what's the plan? We can be very proud of ourselves, but this is really the time to learn. Electricity plans were made for the privatisation of the energy market. How much energy do we need? How much energy are we generating? Those plans aren't here right now. When I read the law, it says almost literally that the minister has no idea what we are going to do with the newer power stations. They'll figure it out. I'd like a response. But first, we're going to co-incinerate biomass for 3.6 billion public money. Biomass far from sustainable. There are already legal proceedings against the burning of biomass in the power stations. Are we going to be back here in 12 years, with parties knocking themselves on their chests because they stopped using biomass? Is dramping against yourself a recurring thing or are we wiser? What is the assessment of possible court cases of the owners of the power plants? Mr. Chairman. In 2007 I was in favour of stopping coal, in 2019 I still am, preferably as soon as possible. But it is painful to conclude that, as in 2007, we are still only at the beginning of the transition to sustainable and safe energy. We could have been a lot further. Billions have been wasted by parties who are first and now opposed to coal-fired power stations. Workers will suffer and even now there is no plan for what we are going to do. Mr. Chairman. This must be a lesson for the continuation of the energy transition. If we carry on like this, we will waste a lot of money and continue to eject far too much; it will affect workers and households. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you. Mr Wassenberg from the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The ban on coal burning for electricity production puts an end to one of the most polluting forms of electricity production. That's good news. The Animal Party supports this proposal, but wishes to make a number of comments and comments and, above all, to express a number of concerns. First of all, about the pace. In 2013 we had ten coal plants, four years later in mid-2017 there were five more. Half of the coal plants could be removed in four years. Now we're gonna take a lot longer than that. Okay, the installation on the Hemweg can close quickly, in six months and five days to be precise, on January 1, 2020. Of the remaining power stations, however, a further five and a half years go by and the last three only close in ten and a half years, beginning of 2030. According to the Cabinet, this has to do with fair balance within the meaning of the European Convention on Human Rights, because the owners will have enough time to earn back their investments. That's what the Minister writes. This raises new questions, because we are talking about coal-fired power stations. Four of these five plants will be converted into wood-burning plants in the coming years. For climate and biodiversity, wood-burning is even worse than coal-burning if possible. I'll get back to that in a minute. Mr. Chairman. The Minister is not a dumb man. He is well placed in this dossier and he knows that there is a great deal of resistance to the burning of wood as a substitute for coal. 190 scientists with expertise in climate, ecology and forestry have warned the EU in an emergency about the large-scale use of wood as fuel. Closer to home, the Royal Netherlands Academy of Sciences has explicitly warned about the use of biomass, including wood, to meet our climate goals. The Akademie calls the confidence in biofuel and wood stump misplaced and literally states that biomass, including wood, should not be considered as fuel, but as raw material. Even closer to home, in the background piece of the climate agreement, the Planbureau voor de Leefenvironment, as a knowledge provider for the government, has made a major comment on the use of biomass to provide for our energy production. Especially when it comes to longer-term projects, the PBL presents major problems in terms of biomass availability. There's just not gonna be enough wood later. The PBL therefore explicitly calls for biomass, wood and trees to be chosen only as a bridging solution for a very short period of time. Yet that is not what is happening here. By converting these coal-fired power stations to wood-fired power stations, we are creating a boom of a lock-in, because that investment in the conversion of coal-fired power plants to wood-fired power plants must of course be well-earned. Mr. Chairman. Does the Minister share the concerns of the PBL regarding the availability of wood, not only now but also in the future? What if other countries also switch to wood as fuel? How does the Minister prevent this result in the large-scale logging of forests in the Netherlands and abroad to meet our energy needs, our wood needs? Does the Minister share the view of the Royal Netherlands Academy of Sciences that we should use biomass, but not burn biomass as a raw material and not as a fuel? My prediction is that in the coming years we will chain ourselves to the burning of trees that will be cut down specifically in the Netherlands, America, Canada and Brazil. There is no doubt that this will include very reassuring certificates. However, as there has been large-scale fraud with certificates for tropical hardwood, as the Public Prosecutor is currently investigating crime on so-called sustainable biodiesel, as the Public Prosecutor's Office also investigates large-scale fraud with manure fermentation, also a form of biomass in which organized crime is deeply involved, so the sustainability of wood fire will mainly consist of a paper reality, where policy makers get very warm feelings, but where the environment, climate, nature and global biodiversity go to shreds. Mr. Chairman. Take a look at the situation in the world. We have a president in America who likes to have nature destroyed on a large scale in order to make economic growth possible. We have a president in Brazil who already states that rainforests do not deserve any protection in his view and that large-scale economic activities, such as logging, mining, livestock farming or the production of palm oil, should not be hampered by the protection of the rainforest. If, at the same time in the Netherlands and in other EU Member States, we are going to use uninhibited trees to replace coal, then the climate and biodiversity are going to pay an extremely high price. And the Netherlands is committed to that. Then I would like to make something clear about the alleged CO-neutral nature of the wood stove. On page 3 of the explanatory memorandum, it is very nice to note that CO emissions are virtually nil in the production of electricity from renewable sources. What a complete nonsense. It is bizarre and almost inexplicable to explain that wood stump is officially labelled as CO-neutral because the combustion emission is equal to what the vegetation absorbed from the air during growth. Those are the official words. Let that get through to you. In other words, a tree has lived for 50 or 100 years and has grown, was part of a forest, part of an ecosystem, took CO from the sky all this time and recorded it in wood. If we cut that tree, of course, it stops catching and storing CO. If we burn that tree again, the CO captured in those 50 or 100 years will be blown into the atmosphere in a few hours. That huge increase in greenhouse gases is what we call CO-neutral, because we use a silly trick to start the count in the past. If we start that count 300 million ago, when coal layers are formed in the carboon, then coal is also CO-neutral. But that is, of course, complete nonsense. We shouldn't start counting in the past. The count begins now. Now the number of particles of CO2 in the air is extremely high, making the climate under our eyes more extreme and warmer. We see it happen again these days: never before was it so hot in June. The amount of CO2 in the air in the last million years was always between 200 and 250 ppm or particles per million, with a single outlier upwards. The amount never exceeded the 300 ppm limit. Now, in a few decades, we're gonna pop through the 300-line, through the 350-line, through the 400-line, and we're on our way to the 450. By cutting and burning trees, we prevent the new storage of CO2 in those trees. At the same time, we throw the CO2 from the wood into the air, which only increases the number of particles. And that's what we call CO2-neutral. I hope, however, that the Minister agrees with me that increasing the number of CO2 particles in the air can never be the intention, how the EU is trying to wash this green. Mr. Chairman. Woodburn can never be a successor or a substitute for coal. The large-scale combustion of coal has disastrous consequences for the climate and the burning of wood will only exacerbate these problems. I am not only talking about an increase in CO in the atmosphere and therefore an accelerated climate crisis, but also about the ecological disruption that will result from the forest cover for our ovens. That is why I have tabled an amendment to prohibit the burning of wood for electricity production with coal. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u5	Thank you. I call Mr Kops of the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Climate hysteria is becoming ever more serious and increasingly repulsive. Nowadays, just about everything you do is bad for the climate. We, as a small country responsible for only 0.35% of global CO emissions, have to get rid of gas, we have to get rid of heat pumps and we have to get rid of solar panels. We need to eat less meat, we need to drive electric and we need to fly less. Soon we'll have to breathe even less. Today, almost everything seems to be permissible in the fight against CO emissions. We need 49% CO reduction by 2030 and even 95% by 2050. And by 2050, 100% of the energy has to be CO-neutrally generated. These are far-reaching goals that the Netherlands has set itself with the adoption of the climate law, unfortunately. These objectives can only be achieved through rigorous measures that have major consequences. To achieve those terrible goals, today we are discussing the umpteenth low in climate madness. We must not only get rid of gas, but also coal. Mr. Chairman. So it's about the coal ban. Our coal plants must be shut down, because 'not good for the climate'. Rutte III's reputation as a demolition cabinet is again respected. With the ban on coal, a reliable, stable energy supply is deliberately destroyed and exchanged for wind turbines, solar panels and so on. That's weather-dependent power generation. And if you can't rely on anything in the Netherlands, then it is on the weather, and on this cabinet, of course. Mr. Chairman. How many coal plants do we actually have in the Netherlands? They can literally be counted on one hand: five. There's only five of them. Three of them have only been put into service for the last four years. Take the Maasvlakte Power Plant 3, which is one of the most modern and cleanest in the world. But no, they all have to close. And that while in countries such as China, India, Indonesia and call it all the coal plants are shooting out of the ground like mushrooms. Half of all coal plants are in China. At present, coal-fired power stations are being built up in that country. In addition, China finances the construction of coal power plants in countries such as Bangladesh, Vietnam, South Africa, Pakistan and Indonesia. In that last country, 95 new coal power stations will be built over the next ten years. Mr. Chairman. Anyone who does not suffer from insanity may then conclude that if the closure of the Dutch power stations already affects the climate, which is completely destroyed elsewhere in the world with an unjustly calculated factor. What's the point of all this? Can the Minister respond to that? The question is: how much effect will the closure of these few Dutch coal plants have on global temperature development? I would like a specific answer to that question, because that is what it was all about, isn't it? Isn't it about fighting climate change and everything? That's something global, you'd say. But no, when it comes to climate policy, all these so-called globalised parties are retreating behind the dykes for convenience so that they can stick to the idea of being very well at work here in the Netherlands. What a narrow-mindedness. The coal ban is therefore nothing more than a common breast beater: look at us in the Netherlands; globally the effect is zero, but at least we are doing a good job. Anything for a superior climate feeling.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u7	A question from Mr Sienot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u8	Each country has its own responsibility in the fight against climate change. The PVV looks away when it comes to climate change. D66 faces the problems and sees that every country in them has its responsibility. Is the PVV actually aware that the Netherlands has a much higher CO emissions per capita than China?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u9	Is D66 aware that we are responsible for only 0.35% of total global emissions? Does D66 know that we only have five coal plants in the Netherlands, three of which have been put into operation for the last four years? They are the most modern and clean coal power stations. Know D66 therefore that elsewhere in the worlds there are hundreds Are coal-fired power stations being built up? But no, here in the Netherlands they have to close down, with all the consequences for the energy supply, the impact on employment, people on the streets. What is the point of all this in Mr Sienot's eyes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u10	I don't hear an answer to my question. It's a very simple question, very simple from the point of view that you all have your own responsibility. You're gonna take on that responsibility. That is exactly what this cabinet is doing with the closure of coal power stations. I would like to note that China is scraping coal power stations at a much higher rate. I would like to note that all kinds of entrepreneurs no longer opt for coal, but for sun and wind, because it is a much better business case. In a variety of areas, coal power plants are being destroyed: it has economic benefits and benefits in terms of CO. We can never agree on tackling climate change, but then I have the next question. If we shut down the coal plants, we'll do something for healthy air. If we use the energy transition, we will do a lot for jobs. For every job lost, we win seven. In short, it brings so many benefits. The Netherlands can lead the way. Doesn't the PVV see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u11	"The Netherlands can lead the way." We are responsible for 0.35% of total global emissions. I have already said that there are plenty of coal-fired power stations being built in China. What does Mr Sienot think now? Most Chinese probably don't even know where the Netherlands is. What do they think when they see this debate here in the Netherlands? "We are going to build hundreds of coal power stations, but Mr.Sienot of D66 in the Netherlands is going to close five coal power stations. Five! That's a big deal. Look at that. That's a good idea. We must follow that example. But then China will be in the cold and in the dark, because we don't have electricity. But no, Mr. Sienot has a good idea anyway!" What do you think now, Mr. Sienot? What a delusion of grandeur. That's bullshit. The closure of these coal power stations is not gonna do any good. It's bullshit. And that's what you call taking responsibility. Yeah, for all those people out on the street, our solid energy supply being destroyed. That's what you call taking responsibility? Then you have the courage to say that, Mr President-in-Office, I would like to add that it creates clean air. Well, okay. The coal power station on the Hemweg in Amsterdam-West has hardly a negative impact on the health of Amsterdammers, the GGD calculated. Health damage caused by particulate matter emissions occurs far beyond the municipal border and even outside the Netherlands. You come up with all sorts of vague arguments that it wouldn't be good for. It would be good for the economy. First of all, you are destroying employment. Secondly, you say it's good for health. The GGD itself says that it has no effect on health at all. So please don't talk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u12	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u13	I would like to point out that China is scraping coal power plants at a much higher rate than we are, and the share of coal power in China is declining more rapidly than in the Netherlands, where it is already falling sharply. I would like to point out that all experts say that you can make much more profit, including economic profits, if you take the right steps now. My question to the PVV is: are we going to ensure that we take all the benefits of this green transition and are we going to ensure that we get the people who are now worried about their employment or the rising energy bill on the right track? Or do you put these people in the cold, leave them standing and let them become unemployed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u14	Excuse me, but now Mr Sienot is talking about the rising energy bill. He and his cabinet are just responsible for that! Because of his cabinet, the energy bill goes up hugely. And now he dares to talk about people who are worried about their jobs? Yeah, those people are putting you out on the street with this coal ban. So cut the hypocrisy, please. Mr. Chairman. I told you, all this happens for a superior climate feeling. This is truly delusional and, at the same time, a low point in Dutch politics. It's a low point with big consequences. Our coal plants currently provide about 32% of our total electricity consumption. And then what? So what are we gonna do? That power doesn't fall out of the sky. So we're gonna import it? Are we perhaps going to import this power from coal plants abroad, which are likely to emit more than ours? Or do we get it from nuclear power stations in France, when nuclear power was not given room at the climate tables here in the Netherlands? Such hypocrisy. Or is it from windmills, solar panels and the like? TenneT is right to say the following about this. "The adjustable power that a coal power plant has will disappear. If you turn the light on or off, the power station will turn harder or less hard, but soon the consumption will have to react to sun and wind. Then it's the other way around. As a result, security of supply presents major challenges." TenneT cannot rule out the need to switch off companies or entire regions in the event of a shortage of electricity. Yes, it is. It's switched off. Those people will just be out of power. Thanks to climate hysteria, our solid energy infrastructure, which is among the best in the world, is exchanged for a system with postal code-based shutdowns. We're just going back in time. Our security of supply is thundered over the heist for solar and wind energy. And then, Mr President, what about all those people who work in those coal power stations? 2,800 workers make their living there. They're just gonna be on the street. It's 2,800. You'll just have to work there. Then you're fucked. As a tissue for bleeding, the cabinet then comes up with a so-called coal fund of EUR 22 million. Of course, that seems like a lot of money, but if you start counting, it turns out to be about €8,000 per person. That money is meant to help people find another job, so retraining and so on. The question is first of all: do people want to? Do they even want to be retrained? And of course it sounds very chic and benevolent, such a coal fund, but of course it doesn't guarantee a new job. So first you deliberately kill 2,800 jobs and then you give yourself a bag of money and you pull your hands off it. Boy, see if you ever find another job. Certainly the older workers will suffer. Retraining for them? Get the fuck out of here! If 50- or 60-year-olds ever get to work again. It is really too scandalous for words what is being done to all these people. For the employees at the Hemwegcentrale in Amsterdam, that moment is very close. Indeed, while low-efficiency coal plants will have to close by 2025 and high-efficiency power plants by 2030, Hemwegcentrale will have to close its doors by 1 January 2020. So that's six months from now. For that power station, the leader of the D66 group, Mr Sienot, proudly posed with the thumbs up, happy as a naive child because all those workers are standing there on the street. How low to the ground do you want it? The early closure of that plant alone costs more than 200 people their jobs. What's arranged for them when they're out on the street in six months? And how much does Nuon actually get, the owner of the plant? Is there going to be a claim? Did you think about that? How much does dismantling such a plant cost at all? Who's gonna pay for that? I'd like to get a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u15	I think it is right for Mr Kops to address the issue of the employment consequences. I was also not so happy that a list leader of a government party was cheering for the Hemwegcentrale because it closed, because people work there. Mr Kops was right to point that out. Those people are also responsible for us lighting our Christmas lights on Christmas morning. The FNV has now made proposals. She says: okay, if those coal plants are shut down, then a good package of measures must be put in place. The ESC has issued an opinion on this subject. How does Mr Kops view this package of measures to deal with the social consequences?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u16	Those are all wipes for the bleeding. The point is that we should not close these coal plants at all. It's no use at all. Keep them open. Then those people just have their jobs. We are talking about people who simply work there daily with satisfaction, who earn their living there. Let those people work there. That's the point. Then of course you can come up with all sorts of mockery measures to help those people, with pockets of money to retrain people, but do they want to? Can they do that? There's no guarantee of a new job. Leave those coal plants open. Then everyone just keeps their jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u17	On the question of whether or not to close the coal plants, Mr Kops and I disagree, but if an organisation with a million members is significantly more than a political party with only one member, Mr Kops says that it really comes up with a good package of measures, and if the political reality is that the coal plants are closing down, is Mr Kops prepared to support such a package of measures, as stated in the last ESC opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u18	What is certain is that the so-called coal fund of the cabinet of EUR 20 million is, of course, far from enough. The FNV has previously proposed that 600 million to 800 million be made available for compensation. The whole coal fund is, of course, totally out of the question. There will be an average of €8,000 per person available for a little further training and so on for those who become unemployed. People just don't get a new job. They're actually out on the street. Everyone's screwed. So we are really not going to make it through a coal fund of EUR 20 million. Once again, the problem is the closure of those coal plants. That's not good for anything. I have already said it in my speech: climate gains, stop with all this nonsense; in global terms that is all bullshit. So that's already one. Second. If we just keep those coal power stations open, everyone can stay there. Every day, everyone there is happy to go to work to earn their living.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u19	Fine. You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u20	Mr. Chairman. I had come to the end of my speech. To sum up, the ban on coal is bizarre, absurd, hypocritical, disastrous for everyone who works there and dramatic for our energy supply. In short, it's really insane. The conclusion is that anyone who really thinks this is a good idea, such as Mr Sienot, really suffers from insanity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u21	Thank you. Mr Van de Lee from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is always special to hear the always consistent approach of the PVV when it comes to tackling climate change. When we look at our neighbour England, we see that it has already reduced 43% of its CO emissions since 1999 and that all coal plants have already closed down. This is a reality that has been going on for a long time in Europe. It is high time the Netherlands joined that line. In this respect, this bill is important, but it is also a bit "too little, too late" in a number of respects. Mr Beckerman has already described the history of these new power stations that we have built at a time when we knew for a long time that climate change existed and that generating electricity from coal causes a relatively large amount of emissions, even though there were alternatives at that time. So it is quite right that we should discuss this bill. In another debate, I have recently expressed my condolences to Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius on statements made by fellow party members, whom she unfortunately received for her choosing on the Groningen dossier. I actually sympathize with Mr Sienot, not so much because of Mr Kops' tirade, but because of an interview with the minister's predecessor, who really regrets the decision at the time to set up three new coal power stations in the Netherlands. That there were certain reasons for that at the time, you may be able to move in, but it is painful that you do not take any responsibility to this day for the fact that that is not a sensible decision. Moreover, that is something that is going to play a role in the court cases that are all about to follow, because those companies have already announced in advance that they are going to court. They are grateful to make use of this type of statement. So let this be a lesson to all rulers, even in the future, when they make statements as former executives: learn from wrong decisions from the past. What I find a little difficult about this debate is also the time. If we had had this debate a week later, perhaps we would have known much more, because I see this debate mainly in the context of the implementation of the Urgenda sentence. That is already a number of years old, because that verdict was in 2015. We are simply legally obliged to reduce our emissions by 25% by the end of 2020. That's what the judge ordered us to do twice. We're really not on the road yet to achieve that. In that context, it is very important that Hemweg be closed with this bill, but that is not enough to close that hole of at least 9 megatons. By the way, I'm guessing the hole is bigger. We have also had this discussion before. My party has also argued more often for the faster closure of several coal plants. I have already tabled proposals for this with motions and amendments to the budget. I have also tabled an amendment to that effect on this bill, because otherwise we simply cannot comply with a court ruling. Mr Sienot agrees with me, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u23	First of all, I would like to say that I think I am the spokesman and not Mr Brinkhorst. Mr Brinkhorst is, in my opinion, a former ruler in retirement. We also believe that these coal-fired power stations should be closed so quickly. GroenLinks and D66 find each other excellent. In which we do not find each other, the speed is, I would almost say, the defiance with which GroenLinks wants to work with it. Because if you look closely at the plans of GroenLinks, you can see that they amount to closing coal plants as quickly as possible, which we are doing something about CO emissions in the Netherlands, but then we see these emissions growing very much abroad. So what GroenLinks is actually proposing is: let's shut down coal power stations as soon as possible and move pollution abroad. How did that help the climate?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u24	I can say a lot of things about that. First of all, I would like to point out that in supporting this bill, the Minister himself refers to illustrious predecessors of mine. It refers to an initiative law by my former colleague Duyvendak and to motions by Mr Vendrik, Mr Klaver and Mr Vos, all in support of this law and to the fact that the companies have already seen that the generation of electricity from coal in the Netherlands does not have a long future. So we should have been listened to much earlier. Once again, we insist that we achieve that reduction much faster by closing those coal plants. We have also seen in several reports, and I shall come back to that later, by the way, that it is indeed possible to do so. Gas plants in the Netherlands have stopped because it is too cheap to generate electricity via coal and biomass, to which we are giving 3.5 billion grants. There's just gas plants standing still. They can just be turned back on. Then we're just going to generate electricity in a different way, but only that step saves half of CO emissions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u25	Mr. Sienot, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u26	GroenLinks knows very well that we do not differ in this respect. I am sorry that the additional insight is lacking that if you do all these things, there is a gap of about 30% to 50%. That's just a fact. In all sorts of reports, also in the pieces you so exaltedly refer to, it also says that, if you wait a little longer, that leak in the course of time is decreasing ever further. So it's wise to use policy to see how fast you close them. That is my question to you. If this cabinet comes up with proposals to deal with the climate agreement in a good way and to ensure that we cut CO2 emissions, can you agree to do so wisely, even when it comes to closing coal plants?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u27	We agree on quite a lot of points, but that whole road leaking discourse is really not making any sense. CO has been leaking to the Netherlands for years, because we are far too low on energy use and emissions. For years, but I've never heard of that. And now all of a sudden we're facing reports. Just yesterday we had a technical briefing with a PwC report looking at the leakage of a CO levy. But what didn't it look at? It has not looked for any euro cents at the backlock to industry, the subsidies we give them all to finance the transition. They won't even look at that! And now there's huge road leaks being presented, but that's bullshit. In addition, leaking away here means that it has to go to another country. Those other countries have signed the Paris Convention and are farther in policy than we are. They will strengthen their policies because they are not waiting for an increase in CO emissions either. The Netherlands must stop looking at itself from an island, but must take its consequences, because of the fact that Dutch per capita are one of the largest protruding people in the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u28	I really have to say that GroenLinks is saying all kinds of things that I very much agree with, but I find it extremely regrettable that GroenLinks forgets one significant point, namely that all these pieces, even the studies of Nature and the Environment, show that there is indeed a movement of some degree of pollution. This pollution decreases if you do it with policy in a good way over a longer period of time. That's all I care about. I would like to point out, however, that Mr Van der Lee is not responding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u29	I think I have just responded very clearly to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u30	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u31	It's theoretical discussions. I am looking at reality and I see that our neighbouring countries are far beyond that. I see that the German government is also closing down coal power stations. I take a temporary leakage effect for granted, because it also encourages other countries to take additional steps. Otherwise, we are doing much and far too little; unfortunately, we have already demonstrated this in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u32	I am a little surprised at the contribution of GroenLinks today. It seems as if GroenLinks is further radicalising today, perhaps I should say. It's just a temporary road leak. Is it just a temporary leak of the jobs? I think it's all a little crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u33	W eglek of jobs? You are well aware that the use of renewable energy and the start-up, maintenance and running of gas plants is also simply a form of employment. The risk is not here when it comes to employment. It is fine that people are helped in the transition to work, but also that there is a screaming shortage of technically trained staff at every level throughout the Netherlands. So I fully understand the concerns about employment, but that is not the main issue. The main issue is that the Netherlands is very sad when it comes to reducing CO emissions. For almost five years, four and a half years, we have not complied with the judgments. We can take measures to do that, but we leave that behind. Let me give you another example. Let's take a look at the five power stations we're talking about. Two years ago, there was an opportunity to close the Central Hemweg, but that opportunity was deliberately ignored. There was already far-reaching agreement between ENGIE and the predecessor of this ruler to close the power station on the Maasvlakte. That, too, has been abandoned with the argument that we can manage with the current policy. And that was when it was proven that that was not the case. So we've already let a lot of things go. Now, with this law, we have a chance to close the hole of 9 megatons, and we may let it run again, unless you will support my amendment now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u34	I started off with the ease with which GroenLinks' colleague says: the road leak is not that bad. But for people in regions such as Zeeland, the cluster there, and people at the cluster Chemelot in our beautiful Limburg and for people in the North of the Netherlands, risks have been identified, also by an important authoritative body such as the SER. But GroenLinks says with ease that it's only a temporary road leak: doesn't matter all those jobs. That's actually the element I'm picking up on and I'm actually a little upset about. If Mr Van der Lee says he didn't mean it that way, I think that's clear. But that was what bothered me for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u35	It's a little complicated that I have to respond to the qualifications you give me about my words. I don't agree with you. I don't talk easy about whether or not there's been a leak. I would just point out that agencies that investigate that just keep certain things systematically out of the picture. PwC has been asked to look at this twice. If PwC really ignores the fact that the revenue from that tax goes back to the industry, I think: yes, I can also picture a leak in the road. That's not a fair representation of things. There are eight variants on the table and we have a difference of opinion about how you're going to price the CO2 on the one hand and how you're going to help industry get through that transition on the other. How do you raise and how do you give back? In this context, it is a question of reducing road leaks, but I do not think it is necessary to rule it out completely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u36	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have to take a look at where I am going in my speech, because I was replying to the interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u38	You were almost done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u39	No, no, I wasn't finished. I still have a question for this Minister. I mentioned his predecessor, but he's responsible from a constitutional point of view. If he reflects on the past few years and looks at the whole file of the coal power stations and the jojo policy that we have pursued in them, is he, unlike one of his predecessors, with retroactive effect, of the view that it has not been wise for the Netherlands to build these three new power stations? Does he not agree that at those times when the owners of those power stations seemed willing to conclude an agreement on faster closure, that opportunity was not grasped? As a result, the problem of CO emissions has increased. We're gonna wait for the package, but he's probably gonna have to adjust all sails or fail to live up to that Urgenda pronunciation and that's why he got into trouble. How does he look back on that? Then I have another question about the response he gave to the CE Delft report at my request. That report looks at our proposal to speed up the closure of a number of coal-fired power stations. That report really sees possibilities, but then the Minister comes up with a number of arguments and even a reference to an investigation that I do not know, but which would say that everything would leak abroad. What kind of research is that? I don't know it, but I'm very curious to see the basis for that. As if we do not have an energy market here, as if we do not have stationary gas plants and as if they are not being put into operation. They are already being put into operation if additional power is to be supplied to Belgium, because the nuclear power plants there are faulty and cannot run. I think that argument is weak, and that was why I tabled this amendment. If I would just focus on the law itself, I have a few more questions. I'm concentrating on the Amercentrale. This is one of the older plants that are in the process of switching to biomass and may continue to do so if, for my part, it has completely switched to biomass before 31 December 2024. What happens if they are not at 100% but at 90%, for example? Do they have to close immediately or are we then faced with the argument that this Amercentrale has a heat grid, that we cannot leave these people in the cold and that the power station should continue to run out of control? How does the government guarantee me that the owner of this plant, RWE, has arranged before that date that there is a plan B if he fails to run the plant at 100% biomass? I also think this is an important issue. I would like to conclude by saying to the President that I do not rule out asking for a reopening next week, because I would also like to see the assessment of this bill in the light of the question of which Urgenda package comes out at the end of the week, allegedly Friday. I think this is also relevant to colleagues, because if it is a package that does not close the hole of 9 megatons, then you have some explaining to the judge, too, why we in the Netherlands do not comply with that ruling. So I'd like to do that pre-announcement. Finally, I still have something to say about the heart, although it may be very unusual. I have criticised in the past the fact that the State has gone into cassation; that is a legal term for in the highest instance yet again challenging two previous rulings in the Urgenda case. When I see the argument put forward by the State in that case, I really am suffering from substitute shame and very crooked toes. On the one hand, we are trying to progress together in reducing CO2 emissions and working together with the coalition on the Climate Act. But then there is a party of arguments that put the issue even more into perspective than the PVV does, at least they are feeding it with these weird calculations that try to get rid of the responsibility of a country. I find that really very complicated. I don't know why that happens. That is what I want to say. I assume that the Minister does not go into the words of the national attorney in this matter, but I would say: stop this kind of crooked argument that no one else is helping.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u40	Thank you. So you are warning us of perhaps a third term of this debate. You will then have to apply for it in the scheme of work. In view of next week's agenda, I wish you every success. Mr Sienot of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last Monday, Maarten van der Weijden was the first man to swim the entire Elfstedentocht. An insanely handsome achievement. Maybe with that he sets a new trend, because the chance that you can skate the Elfstedentocht again has gotten a lot smaller this century. The chance of a period that is cold enough for an Elfstedentocht is now about once every twelve years. A century ago, that was once every five years. Mr. Chairman. The earth heats up dangerously quickly, and we also notice that on a daily basis. 2019 is already on its way to becoming one of the warmest years ever. They can talk about that in India; people are literally dying of the heat right now. And of course, climate change is of all times, but the last time in history that our planet, the Earth, warmed up 6°C, that happened in 20,000 years. In our era, this is going to work in 100 years if we keep up with the current rate of CO emissions. It's a downright dangerous record attempt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u42	First of all, of course, it is quite different from climate, but good. Yeah, the Earth's warming up, it's all getting warmer and we've got the hottest day in so many years. We hear this almost weekly: yes, it is the warmest day in 100 years. A little later, it's the hottest day in 200 years, and I know it all. Often that message comes from the NIS. Then of course you have to ask yourself, "Well, what am I supposed to do with the information?'. This was indeed the case recently. Then the NOS headlines: hottest June 2nd ever measured. Then it was at 29°C. The warmest June 2nd measured. Now I have here a newspaper of the same day, but in 1947. Then there were temperatures of 32°C. What do you mean, hottest day ever measured? Hottest day in 100, 200 years? Can Mr Sienot respond to this, to that indeed alarmist message from the NIS and the like, to those nonsense messages?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u43	I'm not gonna respond to that, because that's an incident. What I'm going to respond to is the pattern we see worldwide. You can get Dutch incidents out of it, but I think there were several speakers who said that climate change is a global issue. That is also why I find this particular incident less relevant. And I'm not gonna say anything about the NIS coverage. What matters to me is that it is a global development. And in this global development, we can see that the measurements of NASA aren't exactly the same as the predictions made in the climate models years ago. In fact, at the moment it is going even harder than the climate models predicted at the time. In any case, the pattern, on the one hand, the explosion of CO emissions since the industrial revolution and, on the other hand, the global warming caused by science, is no longer in doubt. There is broad scientific consensus on this. And that's the point I want to make here, not the weather on June 2, 1947 or June 2, 2019. That is less relevant in that sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u44	Mr. Kops just a little bit longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u45	Fine. Mr Sienot is talking about NASA. Indeed, the Earth may have warmed up between 0.8 C and 1 C. That warming has gone very slowly. That warming also took place, very gradually, at a time when people did not yet emit CO at all. Can Mr Sienot respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u46	Sure, that even went so slowly that it went over about 20,000 years. The last time we saw the same increase in CO emissions, it took us 20,000 years. Then the earth also warmed up 6 ̊C. Mr Kops is right about that. But virtually all geologists and whoever knows it, note that this is now going to be in such a short time frame that we have to be seriously concerned. Let me say again: you may or may not agree with that broad scientific consensus, you can look away from it, but we choose to get on with it. Because you simply can't make it to gamble, to put it next to you, after which you can't explain it to the generations after you, who are sitting with the fried pears. Mr President, I would like to continue. At the round table here in the Chamber, the young people also encouraged us. Whoever has the youth has the future. But don't push all the problems into that future. D66 takes tackling the dangerous global warming seriously. We also see that the government is taking steps to put the Netherlands in the green. Recently, a broadly supported Climate Act was adopted and now we are discussing the law on the prohibition of coal for electricity production; a new milestone. In July 2015, almost 50% of our electricity was generated from coal. This will be 0% by 2030, partly thanks to this law. Quite a few steps have been taken in recent years. Five old coal plants closed down. An earlier speaker already referred to it. As a result, only 18% of coal is produced. Sun and wind will even generate more power than coal in the second half of 2019. Now, this year. We are not only the last generation to do something about dangerous global warming, we are also the first generation to have an enormous opportunity to do something about it. The price of solar power is falling very fast. It halves every four to six years. The price of wind is also falling spectacularly. Already electricity from wind and sun is cheaper than that from coal plants. This difference is expected to increase rapidly. Let me give you an example. In 2008 you paid €21,000 for a set of ten solar panels, now €3,500. According to all experts and stakeholders, by 2030, we can generate 70% of our electricity from renewable energy. The parties are eager to begin. At the round table on the climate agreement, the participants did not yet dance on the tables. They were so excited about the possibilities and the opportunities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u47	I hear a passionate argument. I just heard Mr Van der Lee say: do not attack parties on their former executive. Well, I'm just not as sympathetic as Mr Van der Lee. It was your party that allowed the construction of three coal plants in 2007. I'm not interested in throwing that at you as a fact...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u48	To throw that at Mr. Sienot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u49	That's right. That's where billions of dollars have been wasted. My problem is that you're very proud now...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u50	That Mr Sienot is very proud.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u51	... that Mr Sienot is very proud and that his group chairman, Mr Rob Jetten, is happy to be in front of a coal power station, while people are working there. You may make mistakes, but you may also learn from those mistakes. I would like to ask you, through the chairman, what you have to say to the employees of those coal power stations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u52	I have already said what I have to say about Mr Brinkhorst. I'm glad to work at a party, that I'm committed to a party where you can change your mind. It is also a party willing to take responsibility. In doing so, you sometimes make decisions based on the prevailing, current insights, which you can see at some point that they were completely wrong. I am proud that this is a party that stands to work with it. Now to the issue of employees. I will go into this more fully in the future of my contribution. To be honest, I fully agree with everyone who says that we must ensure that people at coal power stations are helped to find a new job. That's obvious. It is equally obvious that we need to address the enormous CO emissions associated with the burning of coal in electricity production. My group chairman's thumbs were particularly focused on the fact that it is important that we take a step now to combat CO emissions. They certainly didn't go there. I repeat that very strongly about the people who work there because the people who work there are human resources. Those are great people who understand their profession and who we need to help to contribute to that huge energy transition that we stand for. I agree with you...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u53	I agree with Mrs Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u54	Thank you. I fully agree with Mrs Beckerman that not everyone who works there is also a good heat pump installer. That's why we have to help them from work to work. We agree on that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u55	Of course it's beautiful and wonderful that Mr.Sienot is proud, but in 2007 it wasn't that much different and this discussion was already there. You've been warned by about everyone: don't. And D66 did. That seems to be fine for her, but those workers are paying a high price and that has not yet been settled. In the law before us, compensation. Not everyone can become a heat pump installer and those people too will have to be financially compensated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u56	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u57	My question is whether Mr Sienot, whose party is responsible for the billions wasted, also wants to ensure that those workers get their fair share. That is not yet settled and I would like to deal with it today, together with Mr Sienot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u58	As I said, I think that is a very understandable question from Mrs Beckerman and I would like to continue to do so in the rest of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u59	Very good. We're gonna keep an eye on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u60	I will not address Mr Sienot to Mr Brinkhorst. However, I would like to warn Mr Sienot not to make the same mistake and we will be faced with something similar in ten years' time. Mr Sienot is talking about replacing coal with sun and wind, but unfortunately that is not what is happening, because out of the five plants one is being shut down and four are being converted into wood-burning plants. The Royal Netherlands Academy of Sciences and the PBL say that it also emits a lot of CO. So that doesn't reduce CO emissions. In fact, trees catch CO and dead, fired-up trees don't do that anymore. So how does Mr Sienot see CO falling by replacing coal-fired power stations with wood-fired power stations?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u61	Actually, I'd like to zoom out. What I see in general is that we are indeed going to replace coal with sun and wind. You will see that 70% of the current will be generated with sun and wind, renewable. These are just the plans of the draft climate agreement that everyone knows by now. So that's clear as day. We're definitely gonna do that. The place that coal plants are going to take in will be zero, because we are going to go to 0% of coal emissions if this law is passed. Then I come to your question as to where these coal power stations are located. That's a very good question. Are they going to switch 100% to biomass? Are they going to opt for the production of green hydrogen? Are they going to generate electricity and participate in the energy transition in other ways? Are they going to add value to the chain in very different ways? To be honest, I do not know enough about this, because before that there are those entrepreneurs with their senses. I do not want to prescribe that, but I do know that there are many opportunities for these companies to work on this in the coming transition period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u62	Very good. Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u63	I can't get an answer. I ask Mr Sienot if he recognizes the concerns that the coal will be replaced by wood. He says, no, we're going to be replaced by sun and wind. I am just a simple biologist, but I can assure Mr Sienot that these coal plants are not being converted into windmills and solar panels but are being converted into wood-burning plants. That's what we're talking about right now. So we are not talking about the closure of coal plants, we are talking about it, I would almost say upgrading to wood-fired plants, with more CO2 emissions. I want an answer to that. I don't want a vision of the future with "see how we're all gonna do it in the future with sun and wind." That's fine, but it's about replacing coal with wood now. I think this is an undesirable development and I would like to know how Mr Sienot views it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u64	I will say more about this in my contribution, too, because I share the concern if we are all going to be deprived of very solid biomass, if that becomes an important part of our electricity mix. We are not for that, we are very critical of that. I've told you that many times. But what I think is important and what I would like to give to Mr Wassenberg is the question that precedes it. What place do these power stations get, what place do they want to take in the energy mix, in the transition mix? What role are they gonna play and how are they gonna play it? If we are going to generate green hydrogen, which we can do very well if we have a surplus of sun and wind on days when too much is being produced, because we are always talking about those days when too little is being produced, but there are also a lot of days when too much is being produced, then they can play a role in that. In many ways, coal-fired power stations can be re-used. I am not talking about that new destination; I wanted to say that. What I do think is important is that there should be a clear, clear biomass framework. Mrs Van Veldhoven, our Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water Management, is also working hard on this. I would also like to ask everyone in the cabinet: make haste with that. The question you are asking is understandable in that there is currently no framework within which these new coal-fired power stations will be able to take action.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u65	Very good. You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u66	Mr. Chairman. This law must meet three conditions for D66. He must contribute to achieving the climate goals of the Paris Agreement. Well, that's okay. When we consider possible relocation of pollution abroad, the law still provides for 8 megatons of CO reduction. The industry, as a big extortionist, must be challenged to produce greener. This is also regulated at the heart of this law. Then I come to Mrs Beckerman's point: everyone must be able to participate in the energy transition. We believe it is important to offer coal-fired workers a prospect of a good, new job. At that very last point, the law is still very restrictive. Workers are mentioned in the law with only one sentence. D66 also sees that for every job that disappears in the fossil industry, seven green jobs appear, but we also know that it is not self-evident, as I said, that someone in a coal power plant is automatically a good installer of heat pumps. In other words, we must guide them from work to work, with good retraining and retraining. That is why I ask the Minister: how are the funds released that we have just heard used? 22 million? Is the cabinet sufficiently aware that professionals are the major challenge in the energy transition? How does the Cabinet intend to ensure that there are sufficient suitable people working in jobs with good conditions and the right contracts? I see an interruption, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u67	I have a feeling that we are moving in the direction a little bit, indeed of smiling in front of a coal power station while you are firing people, yet a commitment that the people in the coal power stations deserve respect, deserve future. Does Mr Sienot agree with the SP that it is not just about work to work, but also about the maintenance of wages? And does Mr Sienot therefore think that people should be compensated if they get financially worse if they can't find one job and two if that job deserves worse?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u68	I think that is very understandable questions from Mrs Beckerman. I am an energy spokesperson and not a social employment spokesperson. I don't know how that usually works. What I do know is that I think that by changing policies people should be able to rely on a government that ensures that they are properly supervised. This also includes looking at: what are you losing, also in terms of salary, and what can the government do in that? I also understand that FNV and other parties look very closely at this, together with the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u69	This is a very confusing answer. What is it? Is it yes or no? Is the answer basically: the workers in the coal-fired power stations or the transhipment or transport must not go backwards, and that is what I stand for? Or is it, we're gonna take a look at that later? I don't think it's fair for a spokesperson here to say yes, but I'm just not a spokesperson on this issue. Come on! We are here today discussing a coal law that we know will cause people to lose their jobs, people who have heated our country and have provided us with light and everything we work with. Come on! You must have an answer for those people. Is it yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u70	I think I've just been very clear. I said we need a package. The workers need to know where they stand soon. This is also being worked hard by FNV and other parties in collaboration with the company, to ensure that they are helped in a good way. This includes that there is perspective, in the sense of perspective on a good salary, perspective on good new work and perspective on a future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u71	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u72	Mr. Chairman. With this law, the government takes its role as director of the energy transition seriously. Energy companies now know that the use of polluting coal will be over by 2030. However, we are also seeing new developments, such as the recent ruling on the reduction of nitrogen and the PAS. In the light of this ruling, it may be necessary to close an additional coal plant faster next to the Hemweg plant. We know that the Minister is currently making an inventory of possible interventions to comply with the PAS ruling. Is he prepared to examine the possibilities for closing an additional coal power station? Recently, we have already received an optimistic report from Nature & Environment on the possibilities for the closure of additional coal plants. Would the Minister also like to reflect on that? Would he want to include that in the investigation? Furthermore, D66 wants of course...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u73	On this point, Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u74	Since Mr Sienot himself came back on the CE Delft report on the speedy closure of the coal plants and we had an interrupting debate on this earlier, I would nevertheless recommend that he read it as well when it comes to, for example, the leaking and the extent to which you can save CO. The interesting thing about the report is that it shows that, under the agreements made under the European Emissions Trading System, it pays to close those things earlier, because then you will reduce much more CO by 2025, as it is a complicated term "market stability reserve" that does not have any waterbed effect. So it's just an additional argument to settle that quick closure right now. You are now asking the Minister to close another investigation into perhaps one plant because of the nitrogen problem. That's kind of interesting, but we're discussing this law right now. We can take care of it now. You can now support my amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u75	Yeah, I can do that, but I can't do it either, because it's not the only report. In my opinion, it is very useful to put different things next to each other. The PBL also released his report this week. The PBL has often shown that there is a wide range of road leakage effects. The documents, in the explanatory memorandum to this law, also clearly state that there is a road leakage effect and that this is indeed decreasing over time. That market stability reserve, let's face it, doesn't work from today to tomorrow. It's not a light switch. A certain period of time goes beyond that too. So I agree with Mr Van der Lee that we should see if we can do it faster. The report seems to indicate that there are opportunities for this. At the same time, it is the first report to point so strongly in this direction and it is always good to ask for a brief reflection on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u76	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u77	Reflecting is always good, but Mr Pieter Boot of the PBL confirmed exactly the same yesterday. He explained that in the coming years, up to 2025, there will be no waterbed effect under ETS, but that this will happen again in the long term, unless new agreements are made in Europe. The PBL and CE Delft do not disagree on this fact at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u78	I would like to say one more time: it is quite clear in the documents that there is a reduction in the leakage effect over time. GroenLinks walks away from that now, and it's allowed, but it's just in there. That's only 18% by 2030. By 2020, it is even more in the direction of 50%. Well, then it's also wise to take that into account and see how you handle it in a good way. That is a word that contrasts with that interesting research of Nature & Environment. That's what I'm saying, and I want the Minister to get on with it. I hope that more can be done, because we want them closed as soon as possible, but with policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u79	Fine. You're moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u80	Mr. Chairman. The Amercentrale in Geertruidenberg closes in 2024. 40,000 households and 500 companies depend on the residual heat of the Amercentrale via a heat grid. How does the Minister ensure that after the closure of the Amercentrale the heat grid can be provided directly with sustainable heat? I would like to say this about biomass. The explanatory statement states that coal power plants have a future perspective when they switch to 100% sustainable biomass. Well, I was just talking about it with Mr Wassenberg of the Party for Animals: D66 is also critical of this. We wonder how realistic this is. Do we really have enough biomass, for example in our country, to burn in a power plant? We therefore ask the Minister: can the cabinet get on with the framework for sustainable biomass? Mr President, I will conclude. We are taking an important step today to get the Netherlands in the green stand. D66 knows that we still have a long way to go before that, but we also know that every project requires a well prepared plan. It can do what seems impossible at first. Maarten van der Weijden of the week showed this. We look forward to the climate agreement so that we can quickly take more of these steps. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u81	Thank you. Then Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u82	Mr. Chairman. If we want the Netherlands to be a beautiful and clean country to live in, even for generations after us, then we must now take responsibility. With the conclusion of the Paris Agreement in 2015, an important step has been taken to counter the adverse effects of climate change. The cabinet and this coalition then fully committed themselves to these goals in the coalition agreement, and we hope to soon expect the package of measures to ensure that our country can also take more concrete steps towards sustainability, but in a way that is manageable and affordable. An important part of our country's emissions can be traced back to electricity generation, and coal-fired power plants are by far the largest polluters in the electricity sector. In the Netherlands, more than one third of electricity was generated from coal in 2016. This meant about 30 megatons of CO emissions. Most people probably don't say that much, but to put it in perspective: when we look at other constant power stations, for example gas-fired power stations, it turns out that they emit about half of them in the Netherlands. At nuclear power plants, CO emissions are virtually zero. The VVD therefore supports the intention to introduce a ban on the use of coal as a fuel for electricity production. But we do have some questions and some concerns. I want to start with the people who earn their living every day by working in the coal sector. This decision puts a lot of direct and indirect jobs at risk. The Hemwegcentrale in Amsterdam will close first and that will cost some 280 jobs, we understand. Despite the fact that, fortunately, some people will be able to get back to work thanks to labour shortages, there is a risk of long-term unemployment for some. These are mainly people who work in the coal spillover. As far as the VVD is concerned, there is therefore no reason to celebrate the closing of a specific power station. That is good for the climate, but we have a responsibility to each other to ensure that these people know that we are very well aware that this decision affects many people directly. A lot of people who are worried if they're gonna have a job. As Mr Beckerman also pointed out: people who have dreams, who have wishes for their future and who hear us debate and think today: what does this mean for me? Mr. Chairman. I want to know from the Minister what the trajectory for coal plant employees is going to be like. The VVD would like to see an individual approach for all those involved, with specific and special attention to individual learning or work offerings. I'd like to hear more from the Minister on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u83	On this point, Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u84	Mr. Chairman. I am delighted that Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius has such compassion for the workers working in the coal sector and in coal-fired power stations. She asked the Minister what facilities, what package he had in mind to cope with the social consequences. Is Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius aware that employers and employees have put forward a very concrete proposal for this? What is Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius' opinion on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u85	Like Mr Moorlag, I have also talked to employees, trade unions and works councils about climate in a broad sense, but also specifically about coal. I like that there are plans, but I want to know from the Minister what it means in concrete terms. A coal power plant is about to close. I'd like to know what's been set up from the cabinet. I know that the Minister, together with his colleague, Minister Koolmees, has been working on it. If it turns out that we agree that it is not enough, I think that Mr Moorlag and I can look together at what else is needed. Our main concern is that people don't get out on the street. We want people to find another job and not worry about their own future. That's what it's about. I'd like to know more about these plans from the Minister first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u86	I am very curious about the Minister's answer, but I am also curious about the position of the VVD. Does the VVD share the view that if there is a broad-based plan, not only supported by employers' organisations and employees' organisations, but also by the Crown Members and the Economic and Social Council, we should all be of yesterday not to embrace such a package?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u87	Can you give me a healthy critical look to see, together with Mr Moorlag, whether we can proceed with peace of mind on this journey? We're gonna shut down coal power stations, which means we're probably gonna lose 1,000 jobs. Let's see if we got this right. I do not know Mr Moorlag otherwise than that he would like to take a look at the healthy Groningen criticism.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u88	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u89	Thank you. Three of the five coal plants we have in the Netherlands have been put into operation in the last four years. This means that these are relatively new plants, which have to close again fairly soon after entry into service. As I have just said, this is understandable from the point of view of climate objectives. There's a good story. But the VVD believes that attention should be paid here to the protection of the right to property. There must be a fair balance, as it is called. There must be a proper balance between the requirements of the general interest of society and the protection of the fundamental rights of the owner. I would like to hear from the Minister how this consideration is being made. How are these different interests taken into account here? How can we prevent the violation of the fundamental rights of owners? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the issue of security of supply. This ban also has a significant impact on the composition of the Dutch electricity production capacity. The moment we phase out coal, this means that the variable constant power disappears from the Dutch energy mix. We all know that solar energy and wind power are not constant energy sources. After all, the sun doesn't always shine and the wind doesn't always blow. This has already been said by colleagues. So in this transition phase we also have to be very honest. We cannot shut down coal power stations and then dream and hope that renewable energy will fill the gap. We're not there and no one really knows when we'll be there. For the time being, part of the capacity will be taken over by the use of natural gas power stations, for example. As far as the VVD is concerned, that is not ideal either. We all know that natural gas is not clean either. We all know that we are trying to reduce gas extraction in Groningen to zero at a rapid rate. If you ask me, Mr President, I would not want to depend on regimes such as Putin's and then conclude contracts with them for our own gas supply for a long time. So we should take a good look at that together. I'm sure Mrs Dik-Faber has a question about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u90	Does the representative of the VVD agree with the Christian Union that if we shut down the coal plants and set up our mothball capacity with the gas plants, we will reduce CO emissions significantly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u91	It is a fact that coal plants emit more than gas plants. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u92	I just wanted to see that confirmed. Then Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius also indicated that in Groningen they reduce gas extraction. We're all working hard on that, this minister first. I always find it complicated to bring that up when we talk about our gas plants, because our gas plants do not run on Groningen gas. I think it's okay to keep distinguishing those two. Our gas plants, which are in the mothballs, run on Norwegian or Russian gas, but not on Groningen gas. I would also like to hear confirmation on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u93	Perhaps Mrs Dik-Faber missed it because she just walked to the microphone while I made my third point, namely that I do not want to be dependent on regimes like Putin forever. He's busy working in Russia. That was the Russian gas part I was talking about. So they are different elements, so we have found together that gas is not an ideal source or ideal alternative to coal. For the time being, however, we have to accept that this should be the replacement, because you need adjustable power because, unfortunately, renewable energy is not enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u94	Perhaps I am too early in Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius's speech, because I think she is about to make a step towards a favourite subject she wants to discuss.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u95	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u96	But before she does, because I do know that story, I have another question. I know that at least one of the owners of these new power stations is looking towards the government and talking about some kind of capacity mechanism: keep us in the air at 100 to 150 million, in that order of magnitude, and then we can turn ourselves on in the future if there is a capacity issue. Do I hear in your story that you think we should take a good look at that, too? Or is it clear to you that we shouldn't go on that road?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u97	We've all received the story. That is indeed about the capacity mechanism. My point is that we have to look together, from today to 2030 and later to 2050 and beyond, which is our adjustable power. We cannot, on the one hand, shut down all kinds of power stations and, on the other hand, we are talking today about coal-fired power stations without giving real thought to how we are going to cope with them. That's what I just said. I know that there are coal-fired power plant owners who do have a solution; that might be possible. I'm gonna have a suggestion of my own later. Mr Van der Lee saw it coming. But we need to think together about the controllable ability. Mr. Chairman. Together, we spent nearly 60 to 70 hours at round table meetings under the climate agreement. I have asked a lot of these tables whether any thought has been given to how our controllable power will look after 2030. What does that energy mix look like? I was told by every expert at the table that they did not talk about this and that it runs until 2030. I assume it's our responsibility to discuss carefully how we're gonna decorate this and how we're gonna make sure that there's a constant power capability up to 2030 and beyond. That is extremely important, because it is about security of supply, so that we do not get in the cold or in the dark.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u98	I didn't bring it up myself in my speech because I thought the Minister had already said in another consultation that he didn't really feel that way. Now I taste that the VVD keeps a door open for something I really don't see anything in, namely that we're going to give public money for keeping an installation in the mothballs that doesn't have a future anymore. I hope that the Minister, also in the light of the trajectory of this law and the legal proceedings that follow, will make it clear in this legal process that we are not going to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u99	I think Mr Van der Lee is going one step too fast. I say that we need to think together about controllable ability and that we need to organise it well with each other. I am not in favour of keeping certain power stations open. I don't have a proposal for that either. I'd like to have that honest conversation with each other. I do have a link to a subject of the VVD that always makes Mr Van der Lee a bit of trouble, but that is about another source we have: nuclear energy. We are talking here about how we can reduce CO emissions, but also how we can ensure a constant source. How can we make sure we don't get into the dark? Unfortunately, wind and sun are not enough. The coal plants are closing down. We agree that the gas plants are not our favourite project either. I would therefore like to know from the Minister what role he sees for nuclear energy in the Dutch energy mix, in order to ensure that we will have controllable power in the future, and that we will be able to absorb the capacity lost by the closure of the coal-fired power stations, of which we are in favour. And then I was actually there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u100	You're ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u101	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u102	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u103	The Party for Animals is much less enthusiastic about nuclear energy than the VVD. Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius knows that. What plans does she have for building nuclear power plants? Does Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius know how long it takes, even if there was already a plan to create a power station? Does she also know that in 10 or 11 years' time we will have to solve this problem to a large extent? What solution would nuclear energy mean? What are the plans? Does Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius know how much money and how much public money should normally be invested in nuclear power plants?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u104	That's a lot of questions I know the answer to. In fact, we have had this debate here before. Where should I start? You know what it is: I have just asked the Minister how nuclear energy can contribute to a healthy energy mix for the Netherlands, as we are quite rightly excluding certain sources, such as coal plants. I am not saying that I believe there can be a nuclear power plant tomorrow. In doing so, I ask the Minister whether there is room, for example, to buy more nuclear energy for our electricity mix and for a healthy energy mix. It could be. And I have indeed spoken to several people who are interested in installing new power stations in the Netherlands. They indicate a very important point, which is also very relevant in this debate. They say they need a reliable government. They want to make sure that if they come up with plans today, they won't hear about it in a few years' time. And that's what we're doing here right now. After four years we say to the coal plants: we are going to do it differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u105	Let's not turn it into a nuclear debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u106	I'm fine with it, Mr. Chairman. I like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u107	I don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u108	Now I'm afraid I'm going against you a little bit, too, but I'm gonna try. The VVD keeps a nice story. We haven't been in touch, but it could have been a copy of the contribution I'm about to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u109	Then you can leave it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u110	I'm considering that, but I'm gonna think about that for a few more minutes. My question is this. Mrs Yeşilgöz points out that if the coal plants are to close down, we must have adjustable power. We are both in favour of examining the option of nuclear power plants. But do I understand now that, somewhere around 2030, when those coal plants close, we will have no variable power? Or do you refer this issue, which puzzles me a little, to the Minister? Is this a condition to vote for this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u111	Mr President, I have several portfolios and I am also a spokesperson for emancipation. If the SGP spokesperson there started by saying that we had prepared about the same speech, I would find that a bit complicated, but here I like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u112	I'm the other way around, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u113	Yeah, that too. But on this file, I like it. I am indeed concerned about the issue of whether we have thought carefully with each other about the controllable power. At all those round tables where we sat, the experts said that we needed to build much more flexibility into the climate plans and that we needed to think carefully about what will happen after 2030. So I hope that's what we're gonna do together. This law offers a transition period, including for coal plants. The law allows us to organise it in a different way to ensure that we keep capacity. So it's not a condition, but it's a concern. I have some ideas here that I would like to put forward, but I would like to hear from the Minister in particular how we deal with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u114	Very good. Thank you. I call Mrs Agnes Mulder from the CDA group. This debate will last until 4 p.m. That's in 35 minutes. I see the Minister looking a little light-hearted. Something in me says we're not gonna make it to that 4:00, but I'd love it if we could put a little turbo on it. I call Mrs Agnes Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u115	Mr President, thank you. I'll try to do that. The CDA supports the proposal to ban the use of coal for the production of electricity. This is a cost-effective step for the transition to a less CO-emission energy supply. I am thinking of all the employees of the power stations, whose work is sometimes discussed so briefly by the parties. The CDA therefore welcomes the establishment of an arrangement for employees and suppliers of the Hemweg plant which closes on 1 January. Climate and energy transition has an impact on society and we need to be aware of that. The CDA wants a job perspective and appreciates the provision for the employment effects of the energy transition, focusing on work-to-work guidance and retraining and further training. I would ask the Minister what period this provision will take up. I also ask this in relation to, for example, the letter from the FNV that we received about this. Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands we are going to stop generating electricity with coal. We see that in other European Member States this phase-out is not yet in sight. In Eastern Europe, in particular, there are still many more polluting coal plants. Are there also European standards for closing these coal plants in the future? Mr. Chairman. A concern that the Council of State also gives concerns security of supply. Other colleagues have already mentioned it. We are moving towards a more flexible system with less stable central electricity production and more decentralised and smaller forms of generation. Fortunately, in the Netherlands there are gas plants that are flexible and can absorb fluctuations. However, we are concerned about the stability of the grid. With the current amount of renewable electricity, the system operators still have it in hand. But how do we ensure that things are going in a good way when they are going to increase? Of course, there are plans for that. Can the Minister explain how this is being considered? How will the new Energy Act offer solutions? Should we ensure that there are alternatives to malfunctions? In this light, the CDA does not exclude nuclear energy either. The colleague of the VVD also just mentioned it. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the end of my speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u116	You're fulfilling my wish very quickly. You can write with red for the rest of the day. Mr Moorlag of the Labour Party, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Like Mrs Beckerman, I have been involved in the complex decision-making on the construction of a coal power station in the Eemshaven. I think it was about 2007. A majority in the Provincial States in Groningen then found that there were two reasons to do so. First of all, it was because the Netherlands was an importer of electricity, including lignite power and nuclear energy from abroad. Secondly, a step could be taken towards the storage of CO. My position was at the time: if a coal power plant is to be built, it must be competitive with renewable energy as quickly as possible. Mr. Chairman. The road there is now partly paved. Wind at sea is cheaper than conventional energy. Only the roll-out and the volume are left to be desired. CO storage is a very complicated story. Hardly any progress has been made. Mrs Beckerman rightly spoke of a 'capture ready' plant. There was not only a location for a capture plant, but also, as deputy Henk Bleeker put it at the time, a T-piece in the chimney to capture that CO. That's all it was. That T-piece is never connected and CO storage is still an extremely complicated issue. The PvdA also thinks that you should address the problems at the source, so first generate as much sustainable energy as possible and speed it up. Mr. Chairman. The PvdA strongly supports the closure of coal plants. That's a good step. However, it is no reason to show unbridled joy. There are two reasons for this. The first is employment. A number of groups have also paid attention to this. The second is the road leak abroad. A number of groups have spoken very warmly about employment. That appeals to me. Commitment, compassion for the employees involved. But butter has to be delivered to the fish. Those who say very simply that an operator of a power plant can start installing heat pumps underestimate the weight of that operator's function. Just think of the risk of harm. It's a few dozen people who run a billion-dollar facility completely. So it's a little easy to put them to work at an installer company. That would take a lot more than that. And I challenge those who have spoken warm words today about employment and the social consequences to deliver butter to the fish. I also ask the Minister whether he is prepared to take all the signals from the Chamber to heart. And an ESC opinion was recently presented. It contains a broad-based proposal from employers, employees and crown members. Is the Minister prepared to embrace that package completely? This is a wide-ranging package that simply offers very good opportunities to achieve a social pace. This is a complex dossier in which so many parties are already opposed to each other. I'm gonna get to the CO leak. The Netherlands will import part of the electricity from abroad, and that will not be a clean electricity. Biomass is an alternative with defects. I have two questions for the Minister. Devoiding biomass is an extremely primitive process. It just comes down to wood-refocusing, with a lot of CO-free. Is the Minister prepared to accelerate more intelligent use of biomass? In other words, does he want to promote second and third generation applications? Is he willing to accelerate the steps and innovation towards those applications? The same applies to the roll-out of wind at sea. I said at the beginning of my contribution that clean stream of dirty electricity should compete away. But there has to be enough clean electricity. Does the Minister see opportunities to accelerate the roll-out of wind at sea, or does he want to create those opportunities? My final point concerns the legal risks. On the one hand, we have the ambition to close the coal plants quickly, but on the other hand, the government must act properly, in accordance with the law, general principles of good administration and general principles of law. In the legislative proposal, the Minister said that everything is to be seen in terms of the legal risks involved. Nevertheless, I ask him whether it is legally sufficiently waterproof. Mr. Chairman. I think we are going to take an important step with this law on a very long road that we still have to take. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u118	Thank you. Then the floor is for Mr Stoffer of the Political Reformed Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u119	Mr. Chairman. Balkenende II asked energy companies at the time to build new coal plants. That has been referred to before. Its construction was in the interest of good energy supply. Those three new power stations have now been built. They are the most efficient coal plants in Europe. Therefore, a ban on coal-fired power plants in 2030 calls for good, very good justification. Let us be clear that the SGP still questions this justification. Not only us, but also the Council of State is asking critical questions. Because yes, the SGP is for the sustainability of energy supply and we are also in favour of reducing dependence on fossil fuels, but we do not go along with everything simply because it sounds tough on paper. Last Saturday, the NOS gave an impression of the consequences of a large-scale power outage. The lights don't turn on anymore, you don't have the Internet, traffic lights go off, and you can go on like that for a while. The main focus was on the consequences of cyber attacks on our power grid, but I also had in mind the legislative proposal before us. For a ban means that a quarter of electricity production capacity will be eliminated by 2030. In addition to coal-fired power stations, the Borssele nuclear power plant would be closed. What does that mean for security of supply? There will be wind farms and solar panels, but that's what you've been saying before, it's not so much about on wind stills and dark winter days. Will the gas plants then take over production? Maybe part of it, but that's not at all certain. The present proposal does not help in this respect for the sense of investment security in energy companies. And then the imports from abroad. What will the Minister do if foreign countries cannot supply the requested power? We have already asked for a stress test for future energy supply, but I have not seen much of it so far. The last of TenneT, to which the Minister will refer, still counts with coal flow. I would therefore like to have a really good analysis before my group can accept the proposal before us. And then Uniper. This has made a proposal to remain available after 2030 on the basis of a capacity mechanism to update in case of an emergency. My specific question is how the Minister looks at this. The Minister hopes that the coal plants will switch to the devoid of biomass or other fuels, but the wish seems to me to be the father of the idea, because energy companies say that they think this is far too expensive. And the Planning Office for the Environment didn't even take this as a serious option into account. Moreover, I agree with the Animal Party that much imported biomass is much less sustainable than it seems. We as SGP do not want to go that way either. The most important issue at stake is, of course, what it produces at the bottom of the line in terms of CO reduction, because more than half of the CO gain is lost due to the relocation of electricity production abroad. In addition, the European CO-emission trading system also leaks. Mr. Chairman. Then the cost: is this measure free? When I read it that way, the Minister thinks he will get away with a transitional period of five to ten years and with the possibility that renewable alternative fuels will be used in the plants. But that does not seem realistic to me at the moment. I hope the Minister can convince me that this is realistic. Because the most promising option that is currently being seen is biomass, but in my view, it is unlikely that companies will be able to make a profitable business case of this, regardless of the sustainability concerns we have mentioned earlier. The transitional period is also limited, while companies have made billions of investments in recent years, at the time precisely at the request of the government. That will certainly play a role in the trial. The big question, in my view, is not whether claims will be granted in the near future, but to what extent. In practical terms, my question to the Minister is as to what legal advice he has sought on this matter and whether he can explain it further. Finally, Mr President. The SGP has several doubts about the present ban. One: what does this ban mean for security of supply after 2030? Two: what is the reality of the proposed biomass conversion? Three: does this ban lead to a reduction in CO emissions at the bottom of the European cut? Four: what's the price tag? I am very curious about the further justification. All the way to the end, Mr. Chairman. In fact, my question to the Minister is also why he does not choose simply to follow the European track and let the emissions trading system do its job. Make sure that the CO ceiling goes down and the CO price goes up, because then the market itself decides whether a lignite plant in Poland is being closed down or an efficient coal plant in the Netherlands. So far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u120	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last week, like others here in this Chamber, I read a surrealist interview with former Minister Brinkhorst in Het Financieele Dagblad. He defended his choice from 2006 in the second cabinet-Balkenende for the construction of coal power plants as a right choice. "I don't regret it," he said, "not even in retrospect." That is incomprehensible to my group. It is incredibly acidic that at that time our country was saddled with the three large coal power stations on the Maasvlakte and in the Eemshaven, which were only opened a few years ago. The policy of this former minister, also responsible for the sale of our large Dutch energy companies to foreign energy companies that were still in government hands, has cost us a lot of trouble in recent years. Of course, it's tempting and easy to hand out a big sneak, but I won't. I would like to say that I am pleased today, together with coalition partner D66 among others, to meet this bill with a certain positivity. I say 'a certain positivity', because I do have some mixed feelings, if only because of the effects on employment. It has also been discussed by many others, such as Mrs Beckerman, Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius and Mr Moorlag. I can agree with the questions raised by these Members of Parliament. Mr. Chairman. Article 2 of the Act states clearly: "it is prohibited to generate electricity from coal in a production plant'. This one sentence means gross 18 megatons less CO emissions, including 3.3 megatons of the Hemweg plant. Net, the 8 megaton reduction is estimated much lower, mainly due to leakage abroad. In response to my group's request to ensure that no megatons are leaking through the purchase of allowances, the Minister points out the new instrument in the European ETS system, the so-called market stability reserve. This would offset the waterbed effect. But what struck me from that answer was that it is not waterproof at all. With words such as "probably" or "playing a limited role" versus "buying up allowances is less obvious," it has not been demonstrated why it would not be wise for the State to withdraw these allowances from the market in the absence of coal. I would like a firm response from the Minister on this issue. Mr. Chairman. After it sounds like a clock article 2, this is nuanced in Articles 3 and 4. These three articles together mean that the Amsterdam Hemwegcentrale will close this year, that the Amercentrale will be converted by 2024 at the latest, so that no more coal will be sprayed into it, and that the three new ones from Brinkhorst will have to be converted by 2029 or the black gates will have to close. I see an interruption, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u122	Yeah, but I don't see them. So just go on cheerful.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u123	You don't see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u124	Mrs. Beckerman, you really need to stand by the interrupting microphone, so do I. You're trying to interrupt? I call Mrs Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u125	Yes, Mr. Chairman. This is a good start to the Christian Union's argument. It's good to take a look back at where those mistakes were made. You were also in the coalition that got the permits in Groningen. It's not meant to be a sneer, but we have to learn from those mistakes. So my question is again about the workers. It has been the politics that has preached to people that there was a good job there and it is also the politics that is taking that job again. I would like to know from Mrs Dik-Faber whether she agrees with me that people should not go backwards and that we should also compensate for financial losses.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u126	I think it is extremely important that people have a future perspective and can earn an honest income. That is why it is important to guide people from work to work. That is what my group wants to do. I would like to put the question to the cabinet in exactly what way that is given hands and feet. That must be discussed and a package of measures put forward. In find it difficult to state exactly: sister and this is what it should look like. I'd like to give the cabinet some room for that. But it is clear that a solution must be found.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u127	Mrs. Dik-Faber is a bit hesitant in that. We've wasted billions building those coal plants with public money. Those people are in the cold right now. Of course, we should not decide exactly what job they are going to get, but we can make the agreement that people who are going to lose their jobs because of us do not have to go backwards because they may not be suitable for a new job or are therefore going to earn less? That is not a very crazy principle agreement, also given what happened in South Limburg after the closure of the mine. That's been a tough move in that region. Let's learn from the mistakes of the past. That is why I would like a statement of principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u128	Mrs Beckerman wants to hear a statement of principle from my group today. My group considers it extremely important that people can get back to work, that they have a future perspective, that there is a good social plan and that there is a training plan. What this will ultimately mean for the individual employee, I do not know enough now. Mrs Becker blames me for hesitating words. I would like to say to Mrs Beckerman: let us pay attention to the fact that we are going to speak very big words here. The only thing my group wants to make clear here is that we need to meet people. We need to come up with a social plan. There must be a work and training programme. I'd like to give the cabinet some space to see how that works out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u129	Fine, very good. Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u130	Mrs Dik-Faber quotes Article 2 of the law, with agreement: it is forbidden to generate electricity from coal in a power plant. She says this is gonna save megatons of CO. In the past, the Animal Party has often built up with the Christian Union when it comes to fighting the biomass substrate. Does Mrs Dik-Faber realise that at the moment we are going to replace coal with wood, we are not going to save megatons but perhaps we are going to emit more CO than we have done so far? With some crazy math trick we would make it CO neutral, but eventually more CO goes into the air.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u131	The Christian Union has not changed its position on this part. I was just going to start with biomass under the next heading.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u132	Fine, we're gonna listen to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u133	It says "biomass" above, but the Minister probably already understood that. My group is really very concerned about the fact that the Amercentrale is being converted into a biomass plant and that this could also happen with the three newer plants. When this cabinet arrived, more than 3.6 billion of subsidies were available through the SDE+ to support and control biomass for the remaining four plants. Fortunately, in the coalition agreement, we agreed to stop this subsidised biomass re-use after 2020 and no new decisions have been taken since last year. How much actual net CO reduction of well-to-wheel has this EUR 3.6 billion actually led or is this amount going to lead? This question aside. The Minister knows the ambivalent attitude of our group towards biomass. When I read the explanatory statement, it frightened me again. I read the word "biomass" 43 times and almost always in the context of a promising, sustainable alternative. It should not be surprising that my group is eagerly looking forward to the new sustainability framework for biomass of ESC and PBL. When will the ESC deliver this? I hope that the ESC, now that retirement eggs have been laid after nine years, will work on the sustainability framework as a matter of priority. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. I do not want to end up in the biomass drup from the coal rain if biomass that has been destroyed in power plants is going to produce a lot of CO emissions net. I don't think anyone wants to, but I'm still not comfortable with it. All biomass may in principle be renewable, all biomass is not yet sustainable. Moreover, biomass is all too often too expensive to be deprived of electricity or heat production. Before biomass ends as firewood, you would have preferred to use it first as construction wood and then as furniture wood, or, even better, as a soil improver or feed. In short, cascading is also super important. I hope that the new sustainability framework will also make truly sustainable choices in this regard. Is that what the Minister hopes for me? Does he want to press the ESC to the heart that it will look at the frame mainly through the cascading glasses? Mr. Chairman. There's something else that's really bothering me. I've been talking about the Amercentrale. This plant will soon swallow up a whole closed grant, 1.7 billion euros, to provide heat to Tilburg, for example. The waste power plant Attero from Moerdijk can also provide heat demand in the region of the Amerdijk with residual heat for years. There is a lot to say about such a waste power plant, but it is more sustainable than such a biomass slurper if biomass comes from abroad? Well, the waste power plant can't compete against the heavily subsidised business case of the Amercentrale. What kind of madness is this? Or rather more parliamentaryly, why are we doing this, Minister? Why do we spend 1.7 billion when there is a more sustainable heat source around the corner where non-recyclable waste is incinerated? When does the Amercentrale actually operate on 100% sustainable biomass and then on a sustainable basis according to the new sustainability framework of 2020? Mr. Chairman. I would like to be convinced by the Minister of the rational of his policy on this matter. I'm curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u134	A question from Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u135	If the Minister's answer is disappointing, can I explain Mrs Dik-Faber's glowing speech as an expression of support for the amendment I tabled?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u136	I will certainly look at the amendment, but I have great confidence in the Minister that he can convince me. I invite him to do his best.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u137	I think that, given the critical words you are talking about biomass, it is going to be very difficult when I look at what is in the law. Regardless of the Minister's words, that is what the law says. This means that all these new plants, including the Amercentrale, can all switch to biomass. I would say: read the amendment carefully and take the Minister's words with you, but above all look at what is in the letter of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u138	We all do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u139	I will take a close look at the amendment. What I would also like to note is that the ESC has a sustainability framework. If we take this sustainability framework seriously, if we take cascading seriously, then I think that the demand of all these plants is perhaps many times greater than the availability of biomass. If I read in the documents that power stations can switch to hydrogen.......................................................................................................................................................................................... So that makes me happy. Mr. Chairman. Despite my concerns, I would also like to emphasise that, as the Council of State says, the proposed ban on coal is an appropriate measure. However, our highest advisory body has also made a number of comments on the security of supply, the protection of property and the arbitration. In particular, on the issues raised by the Council of State on security of supply in 2030, I expect further consideration from the Minister. The Council is linking it to other measures such as the CO minimum price, which may or may not have an impact on whether or not to turn on the mothball capacity that we still have of the gas-fired power stations. However, the Minister states that the price level will be such that the security of supply and the security of investment are in no way at stake. My group is interested in its further consideration and support. Against the concerns about security of supply at the Council of State, CE Delft's report on the effects of the closure of three additional coal plants is presented. My first question is: why does the Minister not think that CE Delft's claim that sufficient gas plants are available in the short term to ensure security of supply is realistic? How attractive does the Minister find the scenario of closing down all coal power stations in the Netherlands tomorrow, so to speak? With his reaction to this report that it would be undesirable for these coal-fired power stations to disappear from biomass, he is actually putting me on the wrong track. Surely the Minister doesn't want to give the impression that coal power plants are actually nice, because they contribute so well to the share of renewable energy through the addition? I am aware of the European obligation, of course, but this sounds like encouraging the purchase of a heavy hybrid Mitsubishi Outlander with heavy subsidies, which would then be driven mainly fossil. Wouldn't the Minister want something like that anymore? Mr. Chairman. I have shared my concerns in my contribution, but I also count my blessings. I look forward to the answer and I can tell you that I will present this proposal with a positive opinion to my group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u140	Thank you. At 4:00 p.m., we're gonna listen to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u141	I give the floor to the Minister. When I look back at the first term of the Chamber, I notice that it has actually become a kind of general consideration of the climate, energy and everything that has to do with it. Very interesting. I also note that there may be a climate agreement on Friday. Perhaps, perhaps you will have another debate next week if it is still planned somewhere. So we're going to talk about the climate in detail. To make a long story short, I hope that in this period we can limit ourselves to the real legislative proposal. I hope that the Minister would like that, and if the Members of Parliament are also trying to restrict themselves, then it will not be night work and you can still enjoy the beautiful work, a nice terrace, wife and children etc. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u142	Mr. Chairman. I will try to do this as quickly as possible. The central point is an uncontroversial point, which I think both Mr Van der Lee and Mr Kops will agree with. No matter what specialist you let go of it, we won't make it to Paris with coal. Period. Whatever sum you follow. That is why coal must be banned from the fuel mix, and that is what this legislative proposal is for. When designing this bill, we considered not only the CO reduction but also the road leak, the security of supply and the costs for citizens. This was done not by specifically excluding power stations, but by eliminating coal and giving transitional periods. These transition periods are aimed at finding a middle ground between this CO reduction, road leakage, security of supply and so on. These transitional periods also provide compensation in kind. This is important because the bill offers these transitional periods but does not provide financial compensation. That's what it's aimed at. This means that it is wise to ask the question about the legal risks. Mr Moorlag has done so, as has Mrs Beckerman and Mr Stoffer, and I must forget someone else. Then it is important that there is an alternative method of exploitation. If it is not there, then it will be a closure law and we will have a completely different legal framework. Then there will be no regulation of ownership, but in a way it will be expropriation. Is that a risk? Yeah, there's that risk, of course. Everyone's free to go to court. I am confident, also on the basis of the advice I have obtained myself, that this should not lead to the payment of disadvantage compensation, but I would be crazy if I were to showcase this whole legal analysis here. This is the position of the State and the State will defend its interests. The explanatory statement states where that is done, but the precise hair clover is visible at the time it was to be discussed. I also think that this is an important point, and I am not alone in it, the labour market. Mr Sienot said, to paraphrase him, I am an energy spokesperson and not a labour market spokesperson. Well, well, I'm an energy minister and not a work-to-work minister, but from work to work is twice a job, and we have to feel responsible for that. If we do not recognise that this transition is also part of the energy transition in a labour market sense and climate change, then something goes wrong. I think the household wallet and the job are the two main focal points for support in this society for this whole operation. I also see Mr Sienot nodding soundlessly now. I am not accusing him of anything either, because I think we agree on that in this Chamber. If we don't do that, it's gonna go wrong. Because then no one wants it anymore. That's important. The second important thing is that this transition, for the first time in fact, offers a new opportunity for the middle and bottom of the labour market. For years, we have seen globalisation hollow it out. There's just a chance here. A bottleneck is of course that this opportunity is very much on the beta, technical and technical implementation side, but that offers that opportunity when you work in a coal power station or in the coal sector. We know that macro-opportunities do not always provide micro-comfort. If I were working there, I'd say nice of those macro opportunities, but now I'd like micro-confort. Other organisations, such as the FNV, have looked at what could be the effect in the long term. The time limit is limited, macro. This could mean 40 to 150 people becoming long-term unemployed. From that research you can say: that is macro limited. But micro isn't reassuring. And that, of course, is what we're after. So there has been work, in line with the ESC opinion, without suggesting that every aspect of it is embraced, I have to be honest in that too, to different parts. The first is the Westhaven Arrangement. This is specific to Hemweg, which is also in line with the ESC opinion. This means that unemployment must be avoided as a result of this closure. Wherever that doesn't work, people need to be escorted. In concrete terms, it has been agreed that a unit of UWV and FNV will be set up. It will work on the design of a kind of service package in which people can be guided to a new job. Of course, there is an important responsibility there, because that is how we arranged it in the Netherlands, with the employer. That arrangement for Hemweg also offers the opportunity to learn for situations of the future. With this arrangement and with the role of the employer, the people of Hemweg must be helped to change their jobs. But that's only Hemweg. There is also the broader energy transition. That is what the provision for employment effects is for, that energy transition. Someone asked me when it was ready. I can't exactly predict that. It's working out. The FNV is involved, the UWV, the Ministry of SZW, VNO. EZK is not actually one of the four most active parties there at the moment. That runs, but I can't predict when that's done. I do not think we should consider that budget as something that we now know is enough until 2030. I just can't say. So I'm not saying it either. I'm not saying "this is it," and I'm not saying "this isn't it." We simply need to work on this. This applies to all those parts of the climate agreement. We don't even know what we've all come across in a year. I was stuck with local authorities, who also say: we don't really know what we're going to find for frictions in the coming year. But we have to solve that, because if we don't solve it, then it's both about income, household income, and jobs, then it's not gonna work either. So this is a matter of being on top of it. A good start has been made with that arrangement. The Minister of SZW has been very comprehensive and busy with this. I think we should consider everything in the context of climate as a beginning, because in all honesty, we have produced a lot of paper, but it has to work now. We undoubtedly come to all kinds of discoveries, some of which are pleasant, but also unpleasant surprises. Again and again we will have to do something about it. That is what I am expressing here, partly on behalf of the Minister of SZW.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u143	During the previous energy transition, a lot of people also lost their jobs when the mines were closed down. That has gone awesomely wrong, with communities that have been hit very hard and the consequences are visible in Limburg to this day. I like that the Minister starts work and also says: we are going to learn a lot, this is just the beginning. That uncertainty, which the Minister is talking about, can also be removed by saying from the very beginning: we do not want people to go backwards. Can the Minister make that commitment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u144	These generic commitments are very tempting, but all these situations differ. It is much more important here to express the commitment that we are going to make arrangements with these people. That's always customization. I certainly can't guarantee that that always means for everyone that he's only improving on it. I can't give you that guarantee. It's still really custom-made. But the point is that we see together that this should be regulated not only in Hemweg but also in a broader sense. That coal sector is really just one. There are many more of these sectors. I stood here three times to talk about the gas turbine production in Hengelo. That's all worked out. We've done a lot of work on it. That's all been customization. But we see old sectors being replaced by new ones.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u145	Of course it's all customization and it's all tricky. But just when we are just at the beginning and we know that a lot of people are going to lose their jobs, it can also lead to a lot of distrust of the government. Those people have mortgages, too. They also have rising energy bills that simply have to be paid. They have dreams, too. Is it so hard to say that pay dispensation is being done and that people just...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u146	That's too general. It has been something of the past centuries that sectors are disappearing and that there are other sectors. The general statement that no one can make any progress is too general. There may be all kinds of situations in which someone moves from irregular work to regular work. It doesn't always include the same rewards. The SP cannot expect me to make this kind of statement in those general terms, in this particular sector and in this particular case. We must say that this transition must be part of the climate agreement, that it must be looked at permanently and that we must say once a year, let us say on the day that I once thought that Mr Van der Lee baptized Climate Day looked at these aspects. Are you okay? Do we believe in it? Are we on the right track? Are we making a chance or are we just making a threat? We have to ask ourselves this question every year in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u147	I can follow the Minister's line of reasoning, but I can't quite justify him. It's kind of based on the letter from, I think, June 13th. But after that time there was another opinion from the Economic and Social Council. I can understand why the Minister is saying that I cannot do tailor-made work here entirely individually. My former colleagues at the FNV should not become unemployed either. They just have to negotiate social plans. But I would add that there is a very important opinion from the Economic and Social Council. This provides a very good basis, a very good framework as a starting point for concluding social plans. It is worn by employers, by employees, by the crown members. It's worn by the entire ESC. Is the Minister willing to embrace that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u148	These kinds of advices are very serious. There have recently been more ESC opinions that I find very valuable. The polder's on its way. That's very good. I can't see for a moment whether, if I embrace something, I might not be able to live up to the footnote on page 86. Before I can say if I'm gonna embrace it completely, I'm gonna have to study the whole thing. Let us note that the ambition we have here is shared and that we both see that it is necessary not only from a labour market perspective but also from a climate perspective, because otherwise it will not start.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u149	I have often said that the Minister, especially in such a complex dossier, benefits from problem reduction. So if there could be a breakthrough in the social issue on the basis of the ESC opinion, then the cabinet itself, I think, would have been very helpful. But let me put the question this way: is the cabinet prepared to give an appreciation to the Chamber for the labour market policy section, preferably in the short term? There is also a proposal for a CO levy. Is the Minister prepared to pass that on to PBL and CPB, so that we can weigh that well and compare it against the other calculated CO reduction measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u150	I hear the questions, but this is way beyond the legal proposal. I should like to focus on exactly what Mr Moorlag wants to be reassured about and then see what is feasible. But I'm not gonna be free-styling in the context of a debate on the law that coal needs to get out of our mix.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u151	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u152	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Lee asks the question, and immediately adds an amendment to it, whether it can't be done sooner. What's possible? I am, of course, also responsible for the security of supply and for the costs. It is also extremely important for me to maintain the support for the transition. The Dutch have a great deal of understanding for reasonable measures, even if they cost something, but a direct closure of all power stations now, in the opinion of the Cabinet at present, does not belong to the category of reasonable measures. There are a lot of reports on leaks, security of supply and so on, but on the basis of all these reports, I could not be reassured that the security of supply will be sufficiently secured if we close three new power stations by 2020. That's based on those Frontier reports. There have also been clear discussions with experts from TenneT. It is simply not responsible for the security of supply at the moment to say: close three plants. If you're considering closing one... Was that the question Mr Van der Lee wanted to ask? I see him on his way to the interrupting microphone switching from three to one. Look, this bill has nothing to do with that, because the three newest power stations all score equally on objective criteria. So if you want to close one, you shouldn't do it with this bill, because you can't legally distinguish between those three plants. If we are talking about this, we are talking about a measure that certainly has nothing to do with this law. Would that be wise? Well, that is a discussion that, as far as I am concerned, we do not need to have a detailed discussion on the basis of this law. However, Mr Van der Lee asks what research is 100% leaking. That is the Frontier report that went to the Chamber in July 2018. That came to 98% road leak. In the appreciation of the report by CE Delft, which was sent by Nature and the Environment, I also said that I think that funding from the biomass subsidy is a mistake. What, in my opinion, is going to happen when coal power stations are closed down? Then we are not going to fall back on gas plants, because they are not available so quickly. That's going to take a few years, is the conviction. Then it goes to coal, which is also more obvious in the logic of costs at the moment. So we are actually in the process of shutting down coal power stations in the Netherlands and paying considerable compensation for that, in order to put the German coal farmers in the spotlight. Meanwhile, the climate looks at it with great surprise from up there and thinks: what are they doing? So no, that's explicitly not the idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u153	I will be for your sake and I am not going to have a very substantive discussion here. However, I would like to point out that the recent past shows that it is possible to have gas plants produced fairly quickly. And I have to draw parallels with the whole debate on whether or not we can return to gas extraction. In practice, it always turns out that once you have converted the button, there is much more possible than this type of reports previews us every time. What I have a question about is the Urgenda package. I hear the Minister say: at the moment, the cabinet finds this. What we now have before us is a law that is already enshrined in the coalition agreement. We've been two years. We see we're not delivering on the Urgenda pronunciation. Does this mean that I have to take into account additional steps in the Urgenda package that shed a different light on this law? Or is that really out of the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u154	Let us not discuss here an Urgenda package that is not yet available, when we are already late with this coal law. Let me put it this way that I am not ruling out anything because that question has also been asked. Every new insight is being studied. There is a whole working group of people working on climate and therefore on Urgenda. Every serious proposal is considered, every new fact is constantly reviewed, also new facts about measures already under consideration. As soon as there are possibilities, we'll step out. That is also the spirit in which the gas extraction has gone down. The last point made by Mr Van der Lee, I think, is a heartfelt one. Mr. Chairman. Then...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u155	Shortly, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u156	In conclusion, because the Minister also ends with it: it would be good to acknowledge that if we were to turn the button, there would probably be more possible than the Minister is now sketching...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u157	Okay, okay,
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u158	...when it comes to turning on the plant.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u159	It is not just a question of what is possible, but also of whether I can guarantee security of supply and whether I have a reasonable story to all those Dutch people who pay for us actually doing something for the climate. Because if we fall into symbolism, Mr Kops will be more right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u160	That's what we need to avoid.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u161	That's what we need to avoid. I think it's kind of hard for us to get on board when we're in symbolism. Now Mr Van der Lee does not argue for symbolism, but it must also be so that I can defend it in such a way that all those Dutch people do not see any symbolism in it either. That's important. I now come to biomass. That has nothing to do with symbolism.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u162	Very briefly. I have not yet fully heard an answer to my question on the closure of possible coal plants and nitrogen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u163	My comment also related to this. My colleague, the Minister of LNV, is currently looking at the problem of nitrogen. It looks at all the projects that are crucial to this. She's also looking at power stations. That's why I'm not ruling anything out. If it is wise in any way in the context of the problems we are all gathering here to take a step with something, that is not excluded. The Minister of LNV is extremely serious about this. She forces great respect with her approach. Mr. Chairman. How far along with those power stations were rhetorically asked. It could be biofuels, it could be renewable gases, it could be ammonia or hydrogen or waste. Someone came up with the idea that iron powder should work too. It's all possible, but that's up to these operators. Biomass is definitely a possibility. It is Mr Wassenberg who has just opposed the CO-neutral labelling of biomass. And yes, that's true of course: if we cut down all our forests, there's nothing CO-neutral about biomass, then that's just burning up the forest. Of course, Mr Wassenberg will have to agree with me that those who count on it are basing biomass use purely on the idea of a biomass farm, as a fully continuous business, as a circular whole. Under that condition, there is a certain phase of time, as Mr Wassenberg is right. But that's what the calculators mean about it, of course. The PBL supports the international agreements on biomass climate neutrality. It literally says that it is an indispensable building block for the Netherlands. But it also says that there may be a deficit after 2030 and that we therefore need to be cautious. How am I in there? We have a cabinet in which I would like to tell you that, as Minister for EZK and the Secretary of State for IenW, it is difficult to imagine that a significant part of our energy supply should come from biomass. It simply goes beyond the imagination; the sums just don't seem to be right anymore. Well, I'd like to tell you. At the same time, I have every benefit in keeping with global and European commitments. Biomass is also characterised as sustainable in accordance with insights from scientific institutes. The IPCC also takes it that way. There may be changes in all kinds of fields of energy supply. In fact, I'd expect that. Scientists knock on our door in one piece and say: this is not right, this is different than you think. Insights are being adjusted. The policy of this cabinet is to adapt with these insights, but not to call into question a scientific consensus that is currently there. I do not agree with Mr Kops, but I have a problem with Mr Kops, who says that there are other scientific consensuss that he would like to question. Then all of a sudden we're talking about the two degrees, the one and a half degrees, and you name it all. There is therefore a great deal to be said to stick to the international agreements and consensus in force and to always have an open eye for change and to adapt to those insights. That's what we have to do. Do I see biomass as a long-term fuel? No, the cabinet has already ruled on that. Biomass is needed in a transition period to a limited extent for high temperature heat and electricity, but is, of course, gradually more of a raw material. We're gonna get the c's from somewhere. We get those c's out of biomass. That's a raw material. Then there are applications like air traffic, where the timetable is different. High temperature heat could also be used for some time, but this can also be done via electrification. That's how I see it. I would therefore advise against the amendment tabled by Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u164	We took note of that right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u165	The Minister says: we have made international agreements on what is sustainable and not. But I don't want to play semantic here. We're going to replace coal with trees to burn. You can see that the number of ppm, the number of particles per million, is already far too high. If we're going to burn trees, you can give them the definition you want, but then we're going to blow more CO into the air and the number of ppm just goes up. So it's bad for the climate, whatever labels you want to put on it. You can say that it is sustainable or that we agreed on it, but all I'm saying is that replacing coal with trees means more CO emissions and greater problems. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u166	I just answered that. I said: if you think of it as a circular company, there is probably not the 50 years between what Mr Wassenberg calls, but for a limited number of years, then you can consider it sustainable. If you see it as cutting down trees that you don't replace after that, then you're definitely not doing it sustainably. But once again, I stick to the consensus and international agreements on this. My cautious suggestion, when I see Mr Wassenberg's whole view, was that he would also benefit greatly from keeping these agreements and consensuss in this Chamber, because that usually gives him the strength of arguments to convince others in this Chamber. I'd like to take advantage of that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u167	Most importantly, the Party for Animals considers that the number of particles of CO in the air is decreasing, and that is not going to happen by burning trees instead of coal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u168	And by the way, the Animal Party believes that ppm percentages should be halved! Yes. I'm just gonna check on the different spokesmen. Mr Kops asks who pays the costs; that was on the Hemweg. The closure leads to an excessive burden on the operator, Nuon Vattenfall. This is the plant that is not subject to a transitional period. The ban is foreseen in the short term. This will therefore have to be compensated for financially. The Minister of Finance will explain the use of the budgetary reserve in the debate on the Spring Note. I would like to warn Mr Kops that there is an attempt to avoid the emergence of company-specific amounts, but he will know how to spend them. Then Mr Kops asks what impact this measure has on the climate. I come to the end of Mr Stoffer, who asked exactly about the barrels. The answer may also be the answer to Mr Kops' question, but of course he means the degrees. Then I would like to say why I think that is actually a silly question. Every conceivable measure on earth, just about any one we can come up with that has ever been brought into the debate, has a very small impact on the global climate in itself. So where the solution consists of a lot of small measures, in Mr Kops's logic everything would be nonsense and we would surrender to the autonomous process of things without wanting to influence them ourselves. This is a global issue which is only a response to a lot of measures that have a minor impact in themselves. That is exactly what we are doing, and this is one of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u169	Small influence, small measures. Okay, so the Minister calls the closure of coal power stations with all the consequences that this will have, first and foremost for workers, a small measure. It's a big deal. There are 2,800 people on the street, it's going to cost a lot of money and it's all capital destruction to shut down those power stations. Isn't that what we were supposed to do for the climate? Isn't that what this was about? And then the Minister dares to seriously call that a nonsensical question. I really expect a better answer from the Minister. He says we're doing it for the climate. Then I just want to know how much impact the closure of those coal plants has on the climate. If he can't give that answer, why the hell would he do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u170	I remain convinced that the measures will have a small effect in themselves, but that the only way to address this issue is to take a lot of those measures. The one button we can press to get this problem out of the way at once does not exist. I do not follow Mr Kops' logic in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u171	Then the Netherlands can take all kinds of measures as a small country, but what does the Minister think about the fact that there are plenty of coal-fired power stations in China, for example? We only have five, don't we? There aren't many of them. We're going to close it down, and elsewhere in the world, coal power stations are being built up. Then again the question of what effect it will have, the closure of those coal power stations. The Minister must agree with the PVV that if it already had a climate effect, it would be totally negligible what the Netherlands is doing here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u172	The extent to which we adhere to international agreements based on an international consensus is not determined by the size of our country. We'll do our part. Other countries will also have to do their part and are ready to do so. I see that happening to all the neighbours and other countries will continue to do so. We are many protesters in the world and will therefore simply have to start now. Our strategy is not to be stricter than others, but rather to start with an economic advantage. Perhaps that would appeal to Mr Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u173	Keeping international agreements, maybe that's the problem: that the Netherlands, as a good boy in the classroom, is a very small boy, it actually performs all these agreements neatly, while other countries in the world think about their people, but think about affordable energy, thinking about people having a job. In the Netherlands we all do it well, that Paris agreement. Oh, we need to get rid of CO emissions. We're just gonna kill a solid power supply, and 2,800 people are gonna be out in a minute. That's bullshit, isn't it? While the rest of the world sits back and thinks about his people, we're going to close five coal power stations here, while they're being built up everywhere else. You can't explain that, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u174	I have also heard Mr Kops more enthusiastically about the ideas of yourself and others stick to international agreements. Mr President, Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u175	First, Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u176	Well, here's the thing. Look, the Netherlands is not a small country. Our GNP is 60% of Russia's. Our historic emissions are 160...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u177	Yes, but you're standing by the interrupting microphone to ask the minister a question, not to call colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u178	My point is that I fully agree with the Minister on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u179	Very good. That's noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u180	But at another time I see the Dutch government using exactly this argument to get an Urgenda pronunciation revoked. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u181	Then I advise Mr Van der Lee to read the piece better. I read it, too. In this context, the logic of the reasoning he is referring to is obvious, but it will never be used to prevent us, as the Netherlands, from complying with the Paris Agreement. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Lee asks me to reflect on the past few years. There has been a great deal of reflection in this debate over the past few years. I have little desire to reflect on that very much. The conclusions are perfectly clear. It's always so easy to reason in retrospect. That denies all the logic that was there at the time. You can find out what you think. I didn't go into that in depth. We're working on today's insights. There was democratic support for the policies of that time. I hope that it will now be there for this changed policy. Mr Van der Lee asks: what are we going to do about the Amercentrale if it only reaches 90%? If he gets to 90%, he'll have to stop 10% at some point. In the year in which it stops, that 90% becomes 100%. Otherwise, it can run at 90%. But something that a law doesn't allow, isn't allowed by law. It's up to the owners of the Amercentrale how they honour the heat contract. That's up to them. Mr. Chairman. I do not think I have yet answered the question about nuclear energy. I'm so happy to do that. I will stick to the cabinet's position and hide the fact that I recently celebrated my 35th anniversary as a supporter of nuclear energy. What role could this have in the energy mix? Let us be quite honest: until 2030 that is not realistic, point. In addition, nuclear energy plays a role in all kinds of forecasts of various organisations. The fourth generation of nuclear energy will be safer, but also better regulated. It could also be in smaller units, I understand. That is not excluded by this cabinet, but at the moment there is no one who has come forward. No application has been processed. Purchasing more nuclear energy becomes a bit complicated, because many neighbouring countries are reducing their nuclear arsenal. This cabinet wrote a clear letter about this at the end of last year. It is not excluded, but it is not being pursued at the moment. It's not topical right now. It won't do anything before 2030. Then, according to all kinds of organisations, there are good prospects. Then there's the question about the adjustable power. It has been stated explicitly by Mr Stoffer, but also by Mrs Mulder. This is not just about Mr Stoffer's stress test, but also about security of supply and about supply and demand. This is not just about switching power. Yes, we may still need that, but it is also explicitly a question of controlling demand and large-scale energy storage. Large-scale storage is not done with batteries, but rather with hydrogen or with green gas. Conventional adjustable power can still play a role in this, but CO-free adjustable power naturally has more to do with the future. And, of course, this is explicitly about interconnection. Neighboring countries are very busy with that. All these factors are important. We have to keep an eye on that all the time. TenneT provides an annual analysis of the security of supply. We really need to keep an eye on that. There is also a discussion on this with neighbouring countries in a pentalateral context. We know we depend on each other. We also know that security of supply is much more guaranteed when we all have wind and sun, but not everywhere it blows equally hard and not everywhere the sun shines at the same time. This interconnection is already an important part of the solution. That's where we need to find it. This means that the Netherlands should not do it alone, but with others. I am extending this monitoring, also in line with Mr Stoffer's question. He asked: can I get that before the votes on this? I can't do that. But I think we should have this debate every year. Each year, security of supply needs to be considered. That's not a one-time thing. I share Mr Moorlag's ambition to go as quickly as possible with wind at sea. It is true that the acceleration that Mr Moorlag and I want is actually already in the plan. This is a bit dangerous, because if there's a spoke in the wheel somewhere, you slow down sooner. We really need to make sure that the pace stays in place. Accelerating further does not seem entirely realistic. Mr Stoffer asks: what are you going to do if abroad doesn't deliver? That is exactly the annual question we need to answer. When we talk about energy, it is more problematic if abroad does deliver, because then we get coal flow. There's a stake in it. The security of supply is a very important point, and rightly so. What does it get in terms of CO reduction, he still asks. Nationally, that's 18 megatons. I'm not gonna give anyone anything at national level, I'm gonna say. A lot of that's been leaked. In the PBL analyses, the net effect will fall to 10 megatons in 2030, but it should be reported that PBL's analyses, including before 2030, are based on full gas take-over, while some coal could still be on the table. Well, that's not gonna happen. If there is, the net reduction could decrease, but that is still a significant yield. Then Mr Stoffer asks about Uniper's capacity mechanism. A capacity mechanism and the retention of fossil conventional capacity may be necessary if the capacity situation is to be different in the next ten years than we expect. That would be a process of years, and you have to see that coming in advance. The capacity situation to be speculated on is after 2030. So we do not have to decide on this now. I myself think that at the moment it is not a very obvious solution. I do not want to commit absolutism over the next ten years. My first reaction is one where I don't run right away. It is true that if we are going to have security of supply problems, we must be open to all these different solutions, including perhaps these. Mr Stoffer asks: why don't we just do it through the ETS? All this shit! He then actually called into question the cabinet's ambition to do 49% at national level. The coalition agreement clearly chose not to be stricter than the neighbours, but rather to start earlier. We believe that this will benefit us. There is also great political support for this. In addition, we have also reported that if you are sure that the final mix can never contain coal, you will have to put the legislation in order to eliminate coal from the mix during this cabinet period. That's why we're doing this. Mrs Dik-Faber asks why we do not buy the rights. We had a situation of the waterbed effect. At that time, I was also able to hear myself arguing that we had to buy up rights, but not unilaterally subsidise measures that would allow them to emit more elsewhere. That was the waterbed effect. We now have a buyer of rights, although it is not a country that does not need to do the Netherlands either, but the Market Stability Reserve. This means that excess rights go through the shredder. You don't have to buy them as a country anymore, they're taken out of the system. In the period from 2023 to 2030 I'm doing this out of my mind for a while, it's probably not right at all. We're going to see rights disappear from the market. Now there are people who say that if you do CO savings now, that one-on-one works within the Market Stability Reserve. There are also parties who have investigated it, who say it's just another ratio. But everyone agrees that this is the system with which we take rights off the market without having to buy them up as a Member State. This also means that the good news is that measures that we take at national level to reduce the purchase of rights will not automatically lead to higher emissions elsewhere in the long term, but more will be destroyed in the period I have just mentioned. It is therefore not productive to buy up rights, but it is productive to take national measures. That is exactly the opposite of the situation we had until 2016, but therefore useful. The sustainability framework is being worked on. Because I'm not involved in this every week, I don't have the date. It's been asked before, and then I knew it. So the answer exists, but I don't have it ready. I think I have answered Mrs Dik-Faber's question as to why I do not believe that the claim of the Delft Centre for Energy Savings that gas plants are directly available is credible. It'll be over for a few years soon. Moreover, it is not very likely that the gas plants will jump into it. Unfortunately, it is now more likely that foreign coal plants will jump into that hole. Mr. Chairman. I have tried to answer the questions of the various speakers in almost disrespectful haste.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u182	I appreciate that. A brief final question from Mrs Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u183	I had asked what is going to happen with European coal-fired power stations standards in the future. At that time, I saw the Minister write with great passion, but I do not think that question has yet been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u184	No. I wouldn't know the answer either. We're gonna have to do that in the second term. A serious question deserves a serious answer, but I'm not ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u185	Perhaps I have not listened carefully, but I have asked for the legal advice that the Minister has obtained on the claims. I thought I hadn't gotten an answer to that yet, but I'm not sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u186	The answer may not have been a satisfactory answer, but what I said to it is that, after seeking legal advice, we firmly believe that we do not run that legal risk. But I also said that I do not want to give up the legal position of the State and the argument, because that does not do the case any good. More specifically than that, I cannot answer Mr Stoffer's question. Unfortunately, he may understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u187	Clear. Mrs. Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u188	I still miss the answer to two questions. Is there cascading in the sustainability framework of the ESC? Because I don't know. I do not know whether the Minister knows, but perhaps he can convey the message to the ESC that we are not only talking about sustainability criteria, but also about cascading. My group really cannot see these two apart from each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u189	Should I not lead the messages that should not be passed on to the ESC through the fellow Secretary of State of IenW? He's working on the sustainability framework. I'll make her the suggestion of passing this through. If she has a problem with this in any way, she will come back to Mrs Dik-Faber. Can I give you my word like that? Yes. Then I'll pass that on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u190	Then we have reached the end of the first term. I've lobbied for you at the Registry and I've been able to talk for an hour, but that means we have to be ready by 5 p.m. If you are short in your second term, a few are already quitting a second term, we are about to make it. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Beckerman of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u191	Mr. Chairman. I shall confine myself to tabling a motion on coal-fired power station workers. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the aim of reducing CO emissions is to shut down coal power plants;]] [[noting that this has a significant impact on workers in power stations, in transport and in port handling;]] [[Whereas these effects can be mitigated somewhat by replacing coal with alternative energy sources;]] [[Whereas, in the course of the transition to alternative energy sources, not all workers may retain their jobs and other workers may receive lower salaries;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that funds are paid to employees for retraining, retraining and retraining and financial compensation for workers who lose their jobs or earn less in a new job,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Moorlag and Mr Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35167-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u192	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u193	Thank you. Mr Wassenberg from the Group of the Party of European Socialists. I also hope that the Minister will give an opinion on the amendment to item No. 9. We're still missing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u194	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have tabled one amendment and I have no further motions. I have already indicated that the Animal Party wholeheartedly supports the intention to phase out coal. But the use of biomass is even worse than the burning of coal if possible. The Minister says that we are dealing with international agreements and definitions. Now in the coming years, we can meet all these agreements, lean back and see how CO emissions continue to increase and how temperatures rise due to the burning of trees. We can keep looking at each other and say: we comply with all international agreements. But the climate keeps changing. This is not what the Party wants for the Animals. I therefore hope for broad support for our amendment. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u195	Thank you. Then Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You are right: there has been no judgment on the amendment on item No. 9, although the direction of judgment was already clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u197	Sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u198	It's okay. It gives me the opportunity to say something about it and explain why I am considering asking for a reopening for next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u199	Last try!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u200	I have left room in the amendment to take account of security of supply issues. You know me as a reasonable man, and I'm always willing to have a conversation. But before I agree to this law, I want to know what's in the Urgenda package. Isn't it necessary to change the law? It can save us all a lot of energy and do justice to a judgment if we can settle this next week. Otherwise, I feel that this law will have to be changed in the near future, whether by initiative law or not, in order to bring out data. I say this as an explanation and as an additional basis for this brilliant amendment. On another point, I have another motion. The Minister said about the Amercentrale that if at that date it is not 100% biomass, but 80% or 70% or 90%, that percentage will be declared 100% at that date. But the question is whether we can get that plant to run 100% on biomass. I am concerned that it will still be necessary to add coal to the mix of the hot fireball. I do not go into the technique of this, but that is a real risk. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is no guarantee that the Amercentrale will run at 100% biomass in 2024;]] [[Whereas, if the Amercentrale is unable to operate on 100% renewable biomass in 2024, the heat and government customers and the coal power plant may need to remain open for longer;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that if the Amercentrale does not rely entirely on renewable biomass in 2024, there is a sustainable alternative to the heat grid linked to this central heating system and, if necessary, to require safeguards for this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35167-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u201	Thank you, Mr President, for your flexibility, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u202	Here's to it. Then Mr Sienot of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u203	Mr. Chairman. We have talked a lot about the labour market and the transition of people. How are we gonna help them? That's what my motion is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the energy transition has employment effects for personnel employed in the coal sector;]] [[Considering that the Cabinet provides financial resources for the employment effects of the energy transition, making financial resources available for work-to-work guidance and retraining and further training;]] [[Calls on the Government to start the process as early as possible with work-to-work paths so as to prevent unemployment wherever possible and to provide services to the UWV for the group that is unable to do so;]] [[invites the government to send an update to the Lower House every year on the labour market position of the people who were previously working at the coal power stations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sienot and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35167-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u204	In what way does this motion differ from what the government has announced? As a representative of the opposition, I do not see any light between what is in this motion and what has been announced by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u205	The motion calls very clearly for a regular update: what about the position of people working at coal power stations, how do they find or not find new jobs and how are they helped? The motion also calls very clearly for a re-training and further training course before we take the kind of decisions that are now before us, rather than thinking about them until they are taken. We've got ten more years. In those ten years, we have to make sure that before we make a mistake, we don't make that mistake, as Johan Cruijff said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u206	Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his reply. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the closure of the coal power plant will eliminate direct and indirect jobs;]] [[whereas we have an important task to offer a new perspective on employment to the group of people affected;]] [[calls on the Government, in its approach to the coal plant employees concerned with the UWV and employers, to develop an individual plan of action for all those concerned with special attention to individual learning or work offerings and to translate the available resources into a personal development budget where possible, and to inform the Court of Justice about the development of this approach,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Sienot, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35167-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u208	Two more to go. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Netherlands is on the verge of an energy transition;]] [[noting that the majority of renewable energy sources currently depend on weather conditions and are therefore less constant;]] [[Whereas constant energy sources are essential to ensure security of supply;]] [[Calls on the Government to provide a forecast of the share of electricity generated by constant energy sources in the period after 2030;]] [[calls on the Government to take into account the security of supply when designing the future energy mix of the Netherlands and therefore to maintain a buffer of flexibility, including adjustable power,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands has committed itself to the goals of the Paris Climate Agreement;]] [[noting that the use of coal as a fuel for electricity generation will be prohibited in the future with a view to achieving these objectives;]] [[noting that the switch-off of coal power plants means that power disappears continuously from the energy mix;]] [[noting that solar and wind energy are not constant energy sources because they depend on weather conditions;]] [[Whereas nuclear energy is a low-carbon and constant energy source;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the possible role of nuclear energy in the energy mix, reflecting the costs and conditions of building new nuclear power plants in other countries;]] [[invites the Government also to inform the Chamber of this matter preferably before the plenary debate on nuclear energy and otherwise by the end of 2019 at the latest of the results of this investigation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35167-14]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius and Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35167-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u209	Mr President, I am speaking through the interrupting microphone, because I do not have a second term. Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius has tabled a number of motions on my behalf. The concerns have been adequately expressed in this respect. I await the Minister's reply in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u210	Mr Moorlag of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u211	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This law is a step forward, a step on a long road that we still have to go. I am glad, on the one hand, that many groups now seem to be concerned about employment, but it should not be confined to warm words or a hollow motion. I'm talking about the motion I just criticized. It's gonna have to get substance, so I have a question for the Minister. This is a repeated question to take the opinion of the ESC extremely seriously and to send an appreciation to the Chamber in the near future. With regard to the transfer of CO reductions in the SER proposal, the Minister has also stated that this is outside the scope of this debate, but I also see all kinds of issues appearing in the newspaper on the Climate Agreement. I am talking not only about carbon leakage, but also about strategic policy leakage to the press. So I just think it's legitimate to ask the Cabinet to pass on policy variants that are going to be presented by both the ESC and the Cabinet at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u212	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u213	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to the Minister for replying. I will not now take any further considerations, also for the sake of time, but I will confine myself to tabling two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, in line with the agreement reached in the government agreement, new grant decisions are no longer issued for the disposal of biomass for electricity generation, but still for the production of heat;]] [[Whereas sustainability requirements had to be met in order to obtain SDE+ subsidies for additional and mostly biomass in coal plants;]] [[Whereas the use of non-subsidised biomass in power and heat plants is not yet subject to sustainability requirements;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether and how it can be ensured that unsubsidised biomass for electricity and heat production will also meet the requirements of the developing new sustainability framework biomass, including cascading,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Sienot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35167-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u214	And then my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the proposed ban on coal does not necessarily mean the closure of existing coal plants;]] [[noting that the Amercentrale is being subsidised and is already being converted into a biomass plant;]] [[noting that, inter alia, the KNAW claims that the removal of biomass results in at least as much CO emissions as coal;]] [[Whereas, according to the Academy, it takes 20 to 100 years for a newly planted tree to record the CO emitted, and that this results in a significant amount of renewable biomass producing a negative climate effect in practice and therefore not sustainable;]] [[noting that, according to international and European agreements, biomass is for the time being qualified as renewable energy generation;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that if the three remaining coal plants do not close down before 2030 but switch to a replacement fuel, this does not in practice lead to a negative climate effect in the period up to 2050,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Sienot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35167-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u215	The Minister has the floor. I'd like to be brief and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u216	Mr. Chairman. There are three points I have to make before the motions. Firstly, Mrs Mulder is entitled to an answer to the question when the sustainability framework is ready. That is the first quarter of 2020. Secondly, and that is a questionable right, Mr Van der Lee still has an opinion from the cabinet on the amendment, which I must, unfortunately, advise against. Thirdly, Mr Moorlag asked whether there would be a reaction from the cabinet to that opinion. That will be part of the climate agreement. Then we are talking about whether this appreciation for Mr Moorlag is satisfactory, but that is in line with my remark that this should also be seen as part of the climate agreement. I'll come to the motion in part No. 11 by Mrs Beckerman c.s. on financial compensation for employees. A financial compensation may be one of the resources, but this is precisely the core of the Westhaven arrangement: a unit of UWV and FNV is being set up and is going to work on the design of the package. That package will be further developed, but I reject this one-dimensional outcome for every employee. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u217	I think I got an answer to a question I didn't ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u218	Be happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u219	Yeah, but I already knew the answer. The question I had was: are there going to be European standards, so that coal plants will also be closed in countries like Poland and so on in the future? Because, of course, there are much more polluting plants there. We are going to take steps here now, and I would love it if they would take steps there as well. I was wondering if there would be European standards for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u220	Of course, we enforce this through ETS, because the electricity sector, including coal plants, is covered by the ETS. In response to Mrs Dik-Faber's concern, I mentioned that the ceiling for this will also go down more quickly. At some point, these plants are simply pushed out of the market. This will also happen because the ETS price is rising enormously. As we withdraw more rights from the market, or even if there is a view of rights disappearing from the market, it will increase even further. The projections of the ETS price are therefore much more upward than we had to say to each other two years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u221	Very good. Motion in part No. 12.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u222	The motion in part No. 12, by Mr Van der Lee, asks the government to ensure that there is a guarantee that if the Amercentrale does not rely entirely on renewable biomass, there is a sustainable alternative. What they can be required to do is not about the Amercentrale but about the enforcement of a law will therefore never be coal, but if I may read'sustainable' as 'non-coal', then of course it is up to this operator himself. Because driving individual power stations as part of my task package really goes too far. So if I can read the motion like that, I'll leave that judgment room. Then we have the same intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u223	And for eternity, I'm going to record that Mr. Van der Lee nods.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u224	The motion in part No. Mr Sienot asked for an annual report. That too, I believe, is consistent with what we discussed in the debate. Employment impacts and labour market transition should be seen as part of climate policy. With that, I'll leave the motion to judge Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 14 by Mrs Yeşilgöz. The government does not, of course, make individual plans for employees. That's what the partners in the plan do. The employer always plays a major role in this. If I may interpret the motion as an incentive to the government to pass these suggestions on to UWV and FNV, I shall leave that judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u225	And Mrs Yeşilgöz also nods.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u226	Then the motion to part No. 15. I believe that what is being asked for is feasible and useful. I'm gonna leave that judge room. The same applies to the motion in part No. 16. I'm willing to do that investigation, so judge Chamber. The motion-Dik-Faber in part No. 17 is about the sustainability of biomass without subsidies. I do not object to that, including cascading. I've been able to inform you about that by now, so I'm leaving that motion to judge Chamber. In the motion by Mrs Dik-Faber and Mr Sienot to item No. 18 states that in practice this should not lead to a negative climate effect in the period up to 2050. It is then about the remaining coal plants. Now it's a little bit of watching: compared to what? Because compared to nothing, there is often a negative climate effect. If it's relative to the average energy mix, I can't say much about that. That also depends on the standards you set. But in relation to coal, we should be pursuing this. If I may read it in such a way that it does not lead to a negative climate effect in relation to the situation before that, then I shall leave this motion for a resolution to the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u227	Does Mrs. Dik-Faber agree with this? She doesn't know yet. Then what's your verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u228	If I can't see what that negative climate effect could be and if it can also mean that every future fuel will be excluded, then I certainly can't do that now. Because then it actually comes down to expropriation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u229	And then you advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u230	And then I'm gonna tip her off.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u231	Mrs. Dik Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u232	I know what the Minister's saying. He indicates: versus what? That is not answered in the motion, but at the same time, of course, we have the objective of meeting the Paris climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u233	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u234	So we really need to get to a CO-neutral energy supply by 2050. This means that if we follow the Minister's reasoning for a sec, it is unclear what we mean by 'less CO emissions than coal'. Of course, it soon will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u235	So?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u236	But we also have to comply with Paris, and I would not like the suggestion now to be raised that the adoption of this motion is suddenly less important. Nor do I want space to be created or miscommunication.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u237	And so!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u238	Well, I'd like to pass that on to the Minister, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u239	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u240	He's confused about my motion but I'm confused about his reaction because...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u241	A confused minister and a confused MP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u242	...we do have a Paris agreement that we have to comply with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u243	I see that in 2050 we are aiming at neutral electricity production, but I cannot see whether I can translate that one-on-one into each individual power station. But I think we're getting closer. In any case, by 2050, we have stated that the electricity generation sector as a whole must be neutral. I believe that the Climate Law also confirms that. That would be in line with this call, albeit I find it a little anxious to release it on an individual power station.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u244	And so it continues to dissuade?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u245	Mr President, I think the Minister and I understand each other well now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u246	But I don't. I don't understand either of you! I want to know if the motion has been dissuaded or judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u247	If it's released on an individual power plant, I'm gonna have to dissuade her. But I want to be here...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u248	But that is not the case, says Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u249	... confirm that the electricity sector as a whole must be neutral by 2050.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u250	Yeah, so what?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u251	This application must therefore fit in there. Does it make any sense?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u252	Yeah, so what? I'm a simple chairman, aren't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u253	No, I've already given this answer. When it comes to this individual plant, I have to discourage her. But I confirm other things here, which, I think, affect Mrs Dik-Faber's intention more...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u254	The motion has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u255	... and they are separate from the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u256	The motion is being dissuaded, and that's all I want to know. So much for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u257	But Mrs. Dik-Faber wants to know more, and that's what I'm saying now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u258	But we're not giving her that. So much for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-6.u259	On Tuesday we shall vote on the motions and the two amendments. Thank you to the Minister for his presence. I'm gonna suspend for a few moments and then we're gonna talk about the Environment Act.
