ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u1	I think I see a lot of teachers in the public gallery. Is that right? Yeah, I hear you. I also see children, drivers and parents. You're very welcome. This is an important debate for you, for all of us: for the MPs and for the rulers. It may be that during the debate things are said that you do not agree with or that you do. Try to keep that as low as possible, no matter how annoying that may be. You're very welcome. I'm glad the kids are in the Chamber on a Wednesday. I hope you're gonna like it very much. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Education, Culture and Science and the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media, as well as the Members of Parliament. Of course, the budget for Education, Culture and Science is now under discussion (Room 35300-VIII).
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u2	We begin the budget with the first speaker on behalf of the first opposition party, the PVV: Mr Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr President. I stand here today as a substitute for my colleague, Mr Beertema, who unfortunately cannot be here today and tomorrow because of illness. He's been hospitalized acutely. He also asked me to share that with you. There's nothing we can do but wish him much better and, above all, good luck. Mr. Chairman. At first it was the peasants who resisted. Twice the Malieveld was packed with tractors, and rightly so. Then the builders came into action, also completely. And today it is the teachers who no longer take it and have massively laid down the work. Farmers, builders and teachers. The people are sick of it and the PVV wholeheartedly supports them, because under Rutte III the Netherlands has really become a mess. There is even a system crisis in education. The foundational education is in a state of dissolution. In primary and secondary schools there is no order, no structure, no discipline and no transfer of knowledge, but above all chaos, unrest, disorder and enormous administrative pressure on teachers. Parents walk in and out to pressure teachers and there are chaotic class schedules because of the many part-timers, with the result that no well-thought-out, ambitious youngsters still think about standing in front of the classroom today, and certainly not in the big cities. Get out of multicultural hell. That's where the teachers pull away hundreds at a time. Get out of the big cities, where they may still be able to work but where they certainly can't find a home because of the housing shortage. Mr. Chairman. The PVV warned about this crisis for years, but it was always directed at deaf ears. The consequences can now be seen: schools that are forced to enter a four-day class week and schools that are forced to send pupils home because there is no substitute for a sick teacher. And now the minister even comes up with the miserable plan to put parents in front of the classroom in a desperate attempt to fight the shortage of teachers. But, of course, these are not solutions. It's pure symptom control. It's all wipes before the bleeding. Last weekend it became clear once again what kind of mess it really is in education. The minister tried to prevent today's strike by coming up with a single bag of money, but he didn't succeed. The teachers are still angry, and rightly so. Does the Minister share the view that much more needs to be done, that much more is needed than a single bag of money? This is nothing but a drop on a glowing plate. And then there is the question as to whether that money will end up where it belongs, namely in the classroom. Because if in recent decades we have learned something, then it is that money that is meant for the primary process that rarely ends up there. Education now needs peace, order and structure, with teachers who are appreciated, with a profession that deserves the reputation he deserves. In the classroom, once again, it must be primarily about knowledge transfer, purely knowledge transfer. Pride schools, where in the morning the children are taught about our national flag and our national anthem. Schools where the children are simply taught what three times eight is and what the difference is between a d and dt. Pure knowledge transfer, that's where we need to get back to. Mr. Chairman. Then the part-timers. How many part-timers do they work in basic education? Can the Minister respond to that? What is the Minister doing to move those part-timers to work more hours, perhaps full-time? Only yesterday, a motion by my colleague Mr Agema, tabled to the VWS budget, was adopted by the Chamber on a full-time bonus for healthcare workers who are willing to work full-time. Is the Minister prepared to examine such a full-time bonus for people in education who voluntarily choose to work full-time? How much does that cost and what does that get? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. We would also like to know from the Minister what he intends to do with the people who do have the power to teach, but do not do so at the moment. That group of people is supposed to be big. The first question is exactly how big this group is. What is the Minister going to do to encourage them to start teaching again? I'd like a response to that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u4	I have a question for the PVV about the full-time bonus. When I go to schools, I often hear from teachers that they do not work part-time because of an urgent need for free time, but that teachers often work part-time, four days a week, because they just want to be ready after five days. The problem is mainly in the workload, in the unpaid extra hours, in the meetings, in the team transfer, preparing your classes at home at night, in all those things. The reason people go to work for four days is not that they want to settle for less money, but that the workload does not allow them to work five days a week. My question to the PVV is: what solves such a bonus?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u5	I have already indicated immediately that the workload in education is of course enormous and that there is a major shortage of teachers. That's something that needs to be dealt with. I have just said that the amount made available by the Minister is a drop in the ocean. I think we can agree on that. Maybe a full-time bonus like that can move people to work full-time. That full-time bonus is intended to tempt people to do so. We want to use such a full-time bonus for the things Mr Kwint calls it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u6	Now I'm a little confused. That full-time bonus doesn't add hours to a day. The day stays just as long. The number of hours you're working stays the same. Don't get me wrong: I'm very much in favour of higher salaries for teachers. But you can already see that a lot of teachers fall out with a burn-out. I'm afraid a financial bonus on more work will only cause people to drop out if you don't start with tackling the workload first. Does the PVV agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u7	It's en-and. And-and. Of course we'll have to have teachers. Of course, we have to do something about the overcrowded classes, the workload and the burn-outs. Of course, something must be done about that. But if I'm asking the Minister to investigate that one such full-time bonus can motivate people to give more lessons or to work full-time, then it's worth considering.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u8	The esteemed colleague was just talking about didactics. He talked about knowledge transfer and instruction that should take place more. In that movement, I can go with you. He puts the teacher down a little bit like an idiot by pretending that doesn't happen in schools. Of course knowledge transfer and instruction take place. That happens in a professional way. What, then, is the role of the government, according to Mr Kops, when it comes to determining pedagogy and didactics? We have agreed that the government is about what children should learn but not about how that is offered. That's what we're gonna put down on the work floor, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u9	An interesting question. I will come back to that in a moment when I am going to talk about curriculum, for example. Now and then, your question has probably been sufficiently answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u10	That question has not been sufficiently answered. My question remains...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u11	He'll come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u12	But this is a fundamental question about the freedom of education. We have agreed that there is freedom of education, freedom of establishment of education. The teacher and the school are about the substance being offered and the government is about the core goals. It's limited to that. Does Mr Kops agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u13	I will come back to that in a moment, as I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u14	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u15	Instead of focusing mainly on combating the shortage of teachers, yet another innovation in education is yet to come: curriculum.nu. This is a disastrous and, above all, unnecessary plan that education will only be further removed from its primary task, namely to provide good education in which the core subjects are once again central. Curriculum.now is a kind of vehicle for all kinds of globalist ideas to indoctrinate children with especially what they should think, rather than how they might think. Education absolutely doesn't need that. An example, Mr. Chairman. Last February, as many as 10,000 students went to Malieveld, with the approval of the school and the teachers, to protest for the climate there. So we see: climate madness has also reached education. Real fears about the children are being spread, with all the consequences. The government's even encouraging that. Children who are going to protest about the climate are then welcomed as a kind of serious interlocutor in the cabinet's plans to seriously damage our economy with this climate madness and to cost the citizens. And yes, Mr. Chairman, students who protest about the climate can just get out. Then we wonder: what if students want to demonstrate against, let me mention what, mass immigration? What's that? There's a good chance those kids will just get suspended. Because, Chairman, left-wing schools. And there are left-wing teachers who shamelessly abuse their workplace for bouncing their own activism. Yesterday, on Twitter, an image was circulated from the Rhineland Lyceum in Sassenheim by my party leader, Mr Wilders, who was depicted as a kind of devil. Of course, it's called freedom of speech, a great asset. But the fact that Mr Klaver is not depicted there, for example, but Mr Wilders, shows the left-wing indoctrination in left-wing schools. Mr. Chairman. This left-wing indoctrination is also reflected in the teaching material; textbooks in which my party leader is described as a danger, in which the PVV is described as a danger. The EU is good, Islam is good, open borders are good, but the PVV is bad and climate change is destroying the world. That's left-wing education in a nutshell.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u16	I've been listening to it for a while and at some point it's gonna be too much for you anyway. On doctor's advice, or my blood pressure's gonna get too high.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u17	A pill under the tongue?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u18	Yeah, I already did that this morning. I took an extra pill because I'm going into this debate. Thank you for that. Mr Kops starts by saying that what the cabinet does and what the government parties do is a drop in the ocean. Look at the PVV election programme, what they were all planning: I do not see the word 'education'. I only find that there are all kinds of schools in the Netherlands that need to be closed down from a certain religion, that there is a need to cut down on museums, on broadcasters, on culture and I know what. All things that you would say would be good for children in the Netherlands to take note of.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u19	So much for the summary, Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u20	Exactly, Madam President. And then Mr Kops is surprised that teachers in the Netherlands generally turn out to be a little bit more left-wing than the average people in the Netherlands. It's not so crazy that people in education are wondering what the PVV has to do with them. Perhaps you could explain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u21	Will Mr Van Meenen say that teachers who stand in front of the classroom and have sympathy for the PVV, but of course do not say that in the classroom because they are not supposed to, should be fired? Is that what he says? I'll get back to you on that. I'll have a nice one. Oh, yeah? Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u22	I don't think so. Mr President, I thought I was asking the questions here, but I would like to answer: no, I am not saying that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u23	What exactly are you saying?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u24	I say that I do not hear Mr Kops say anything in his election programme...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u25	Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u26	Excuse me. In his election program, I hear him doing nothing for education. He then takes about the measure of all teachers in the Netherlands and says that his party is the one who creates hotlines for teachers when something is said wrong in his eyes. I say, if we want to help teachers, you yourself argue for rest, let us give them that rest, and let us not bother them with this kind of almost threatening language in relation to teachers. That doesn't make anyone any better, so please stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u27	I'm in complete agreement with that peace and quiet. I would also like to say to Mr Van Meenen: do so. D66 is in this cabinet, isn't he? That's where your regiment is, isn't it? Then do something about it, do something about the workload and the lack of teachers. D66 doesn't do that at all. For example, D66 is in favour of the loan system which puts students at the expense of many tens of thousands of euros. They can't then get a normal mortgage and can't buy a house. That's D66. You are in the government, then solve all the problems you are now raising!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u28	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. That's exactly the difference between the PVV...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u29	You're not doing anything!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u30	That's exactly the difference. We are in the government, we take responsibility. The PVV did that once, but when choices had to be made they did not know how quickly one had to run away again. This is exactly the difference between simply calling on the side and taking responsibility and making complicated choices. I'll get back to that in my own story. But it is my concern now that Mr Kops is taking the measure of teachers here. He actually says: I don't allow teachers the space to do the things they care about in class with their students. You'll find something of that, but you don't find anything of that. Teachers in the Netherlands don't get any better. I'd like to point that out. That's what I'm trying to tell you. You restrict the freedom of teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u31	No, I'm not. I shall return to political neutrality in the classroom in a moment. That's what we're sure for. Mr Van Meenen can call for anything, but has he solved the shortage of teachers yet? No. Has he done anything about the workload in education? No. People are on strike today, Mr. Van Meenen. And why? Because they disagree with this cabinet, this terrible cabinet that the teachers left in the cold. D66, of course, puts a shovel on top of that. That party also abandoned the students by introducing the loan system. And then you're standing there doing a little poppiejopie. Mr. Van Meenen, your party is part of this cabinet that the teachers are meeting today. Don't you understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u32	I would like to highlight one aspect of Mr Kops' reply, namely the part in which he says that the cabinet does not invest in, for example, reducing the workload. Can Mr Kops tell me how much money has been made structurally available to reduce the workload?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u33	To be honest, no, I can't. Admittedly, I am here as a substitute for this debate. However, when I look around and talk to teachers, I can see that the workload is still enormous. The parties can have nice screens here with all kinds of amounts that have been made available, but that has so far yielded nothing at all in the workplace. What do you do? What did you do about the workload? Then why are the people on strike today? That's not for nothing, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u34	I very much appreciate that Mr Kops is replacing our colleague, Mr Beertema, but he uses very big words when he says that this cabinet is not doing anything about the workload. 430 million will be allocated to reduce the workload. Those are the means that teachers also say: that is really something that gives us air in the classroom. There is indeed more going on in the classroom and in schools, but lowering the workload is something that is being taken up positively. In last Friday's package, for example, we also bring out additional resources, so that we can use them earlier in the classroom. So I think you should be a little more careful about saying that nothing is being done to reduce the workload.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u35	The fact is that the shortage of teachers is still huge. In primary education, for example, there is now a deficit of more than 4,000 fte, rising debt, eh! Okay, let's go to 10,000 fte in 2025 and to 11,000 in 2027. Those figures are just from the government itself. It is therefore expected that the shortage of teachers will continue to increase, and hence the workload. So once again the question is: what will happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u36	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u37	I was talking about the left-wing indoctrination. Then I'm actually speaking from my own experience, unfortunately. Unfortunately. Because I, too, have been in front of the class in a distant past, in secondary education. I can tell you that was a lot of fun. It was going really well. The school leadership was satisfied, the parents were satisfied, sometimes even the students were satisfied, until suddenly it became clear that I was on the PVV list for the Dutch Parliament elections of 2010. The shock was huge. It's huge. And why? How on earth can a decent person be on a PVV list willingly? The school leadership even felt the need to send a letter to all parents immediately, the same day, to inform them personally about my candidacy, while in the same school building the SP election posters were just visible on the wall. But, yeah, you wouldn't hear about that. My temporary contract wasn't renewed at the time. This is how it is now in education, in secondary education, but in HBO and higher education it is not much better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u38	Mr Van Meenen. There you are again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u39	Yes, Mr President, actually to make it very clear that I am very sorry for Mr Kops and also unjustly, and that there is extremely bad governance in this case. I want to make that very clear. I do not agree with this either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u40	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u41	I also understand that that determines your view of this matter; let me put it this way. But let's make sure together that this kind of thing doesn't somehow, also by yourself, get back into education and that we're not gonna find something about what teachers in that class are doing. I'm very afraid you're turning it around now and you're saying, and now I'm going to like it as a PVV guy. Shouldn't we? I think we're in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u42	So we probably also agree that we want political neutrality in class. That is what the PVV is going to table a motion on in the second term. Probably D66 will support them. That is what Mr Van Meenen actually says. We also agree, of course, that such a thing cannot be done at all and that PVVs are discriminated against in this way. I agree that we can't, but what are we going to do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u43	There is no political neutrality. The core of being a teacher is that I've been my whole life, too. You're in front of something, too, but it's okay. The point is that everyone in the school, not only teachers but also students, must be free to be themselves. There's no neutrality and nothing to make everyone equal. No, just show differences and come out with each other. That is exactly what we are doing here and we should set an example. So I do not feel for your political neutrality. I feel like I'm also protecting freedom of speech in a school. I hope to find you by my side.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u44	You've made your point, Mr. Van Meenen. I suggest you move on, Mr. Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was talking about higher education. This is also plagued by ensnaring and internationalisation. Dutch students face competition from foreign students, who are very keen to be attracted by colleges and universities. Meanwhile, the lecture halls are buzzing out. The housing market is locked. There's no normal dorm room left. Our universities are increasingly like glorified factories where students are no more than a number. Mr. Chairman. Another problem we would like to mention here is the possible infiltration of our universities by, for example, Chinese and Iranian students. Because the Chinese Communist Party and the Iranian authorities often use students, including for espionage purposes. My question to the Minister is exactly how often that occurs and what he is going to do about it. Does he share the view that it is a task for our services to do something at the front, at the front door, to signal and, above all, to stop those students? I'd like a response to that point. Mr. Chairman. In addition to the system vision of education, there is another major challenge. That's Islamic education. The government has no way of dealing with these Islamic schools, let alone closing them down. For years, therefore, nothing has been done against it at all. The scandalous dossier surrounding the Haga Lyceum once again shows that our initiative law is the only solution to ultimately curb that Islamic education. For how long do we continue to deny that there are schools in the Netherlands where children are taught to hate our country, our culture and our way of life and where children are taught that Jews and gays are inferior? How long do we keep denying and accepting that? As far as PVV is concerned, that is absolutely not happening. Abolishing or modernising Article 23 of the Constitution is absolutely unacceptable to the PVV. We would never go along with that, because that is to bow down to an ideology that makes improper use of a constitution. Islamic education is perhaps still the greatest challenge for education. Mr. Chairman. System crisis, shortage of teachers, four-day class week, children sent home due to lack of teachers. Minister, please come up with real solutions instead of lap agents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u46	Thank you, Mr. Kops. I now give the floor to Mr Rudmer Heerema on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u47	Mr. Chairman. From this point on, I would like to begin by wishing our colleague Bertema a great deal of strength and well-being. I hope to see him again soon. Mr. Chairman. I, too, would like to welcome colleagues and former colleagues from the educational field to The Hague today. I have already spoken with the master of my kindergarten who is also stopping today, because her school is also closed. Mr. Chairman. I would very much like to start with the topicality, because no one will have missed the fact that a package of measures for education has been put together. There are some very nice things in this package. For example, I think it is very nice that we can give teachers in secondary special education a structural upgrading to the collective agreement on further education. I think it is very valuable that we can bring forward the pressure equipment so that there will be more room in the classroom. These workloads are greatly appreciated by the sector, because they are both entitled to decide where they are going, and because they really make the difference in the classroom. At least, these were the words of PO in action and I hear this regularly on work visits. All those professional teachers who soften the work for other teachers, the janitors who provide hand and tension services, the class assistant who provides direct lighting in the classroom. That is why I am glad that we can work even faster to reduce the workload. But is there joy now? Is education satisfied? The answer is very simple; that answer is no. No, the polder's not happy. Despite the signatures that have been signed, despite the resources that will become available, there is a great sense of discontent due, among other things, to errors of judgement by drivers, as they themselves say. I can see the picture on which the chairman of the AOb, now the former chairman of the AOb, is in full comprehension to sign the agreement. Can the Minister indicate what has gone wrong from his point of view? In what way has the AOb now communicated with this minister, because the step they have taken may have been very great for them, but that step backwards seems to me to be even greater.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u48	I don't have a question about that whole educational polder. I believe that we have been able to see in the media in detail how that has happened. I do have a question about the beginning of the speech. As long as I am in the Chamber, I have admitted, that is not for centuries, I notice from left to right very broad discontent with the position of the teacher in secondary special education. In fact, no one can explain why someone in secondary education with such a difficult target group is being paid as a teacher in primary education. Look, as far as I'm concerned, you're gonna lift those pay differentials anyway, but now we're gonna take a step, and I'm happy with every euro that goes extra to secondary special education, but that pay gap isn't going to be closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u49	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u50	If an agreement is reached, then why do you not think that the incomes of teachers in secondary special education are now actually equal to the rest of secondary education?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u51	As I understand it, the amount made available to teachers in secondary special education is exactly the amount that this polder, which we have just mentioned, has also requested. I think it only makes sense that if something is asked and you meet it as a political one, you have done what has been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u52	Now we're going back into this whole polder discussion and I'm just trying to stay out of it. The teachers were very clear. The Minister has also been very clear. He said that it would take 35 million to arrange this at least for the graduation-oriented special education; for those people who spend every day with ten children in the classroom where you always lack two hands. Then it doesn't matter what the polder asks, does it? Then it's about asking some teachers, isn't it? Teachers are asking us to close this pay gap. Is that what the VVD is talking about today?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u53	I think that the step we took last Friday is a nice step and a step in the right direction. But as far as I'm concerned, that's it for the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u54	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u55	Then the answer is unfortunately: no, there is no talking to the VVD about it. I very much regret that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u56	I very much regret that. We have an amendment on that point for a reason. But that's not why I'm here. I am actually standing here because I just heard Mr Rudmer Heerema say that he is very happy with what is on the table after last week's covenant. At the same time, I hear him say there's anger in the field. I think we can get a good look at that anger in the field today. We have a full public gallery. I just saw pictures that there's still a big line outside. The squares are full from Leeuwarden to Eindhoven and everything in between. There's occasional cash. There's occasional cash in the form of the Covenant. The shortage of teachers is not occasional. The pay gap between p.o. And vo is not occasional either. It takes structural money to do that. What is needed to talk to the VVD about structural solutions to the problems? That is what I am asking Mr Heerema of VVD, but I will also ask his colleagues later. Not tomorrow, not in two years, but now. Because the teacher shortage is now, that opportunity inequality is now and those teachers are here now. The water is on their lips now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u57	That is why extra money has been made available now. Admittedly, that's not structural, as requested. But if we are asked to make EUR 423 million available for 2020 and 460 million is being delivered, I think this is a good step. We all have our own course for another period. On that basis, everyone will be able to make their own assessment. I think that with the resources now available, not only the structural part, but also the occasional issues, we can solve problems. There is no need for structural money to accompany side-instromers. Also with occasional money we can make sure that people in education find a place and then stay in front of the classroom. That does not require structural money, but you can achieve a great deal with occasional money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u58	I still haven't heard an answer to my question. My question is again: what is needed for the VVD to find structural solutions to the problems that exist today? Teachers don't teach casually. We don't solve the shortage of teachers with occasional money. This requires structural money, for example to bridge that pay gap. We have tabled a number of amendments. What is the need for the VVD to discuss this and to ensure that the solutions are not occasional, but structural?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u59	I think it is not just the salary and resources that Mrs Kirsten van den Hul indicates. I was just outside in the square. A teacher came to me and said: it's about the salary. A colleague came along and said: no, it's just about the workload. There was a second colleague: no, I'm just talking about that extra hand in the classroom. There's a broader problem than just the payoff. I don't think we should just focus on that one problem. In this cabinet period, I think we have made much better efforts on this, compared to the previous period when your party was part of the cabinet. That is what we do with extra money, 700 million for education, of which a small part is now structural, but which also adds a lot of occasional money. I think we're just taking steps on our way to charity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u60	Finally, Mrs van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u61	Mr Heerema dares me to say something about the previous period. I suspect that this point will come back more often today. That was a different time. At that time, there were no billions of budget surpluses. There are now. Then you can make choices, for example to invest in education. Those are choices that I think we should make now. I would ask Mr Heerema: how can he explain that with the money he has now, he cannot make structural investments to solve the problems he mentioned? They do go beyond pay. They are also about working pressure, group size and a lot of other things. It all takes structural money. How is he going to explain to all the striking teachers, parents and school leaders that this isn't gonna work?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u62	Of course there is also room in the lumpsum to make other choices. There's room in the super-legal arrangement. There are opportunities for structural money. Our ideas on this are therefore different from those of the Labour Party. That's okay, too. We are also different parties. We're different in that. It is good to have the debate on this. You have a different course in that than we do. We see that with the things we do, we are moving in the right direction. As a VVD we can also simply celebrate in the right direction. That's a difference from some of the other parties in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u63	I ask Mr Heerema of the VVD to take a look at the facts. We know there are already 1,000 vacancies open. We know that the shortage of teachers continues to rise to 10,000. We know that the workload is very high. Those aren't things that I or my colleagues come up with here. Those are things we all know from research. Mr Heerema says that there is no structural money. Then what's behind it? We are talking here to the largest government party, a party that has a significant influence on government policy. Then why doesn't the VVD want to invest extra in education, when we just know what the big problems are?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u64	There is extra investment in education. You can't deny that. That is what you have said in other debates. You just always say after it: it's not enough. We think we're going in the right direction. There's a higher influx into the pabo. There are more people with a competence working outside the education system who go back into education. There are more side-instromers, which we will soon be able to guide better. We should also look at taxation, for example. Mr Kops has already mentioned a full-time bonus, but you could also look at taxation, in the sense that people are simply really rewarded if they want to work more. This does not have to be full-time; from two to three days is also a solution. So we have a different course in that than you do. We are seeing positive developments in education. Yeah, there's a teacher shortage. And yes, that will grow in the coming years. But we hope that we can get that under control with the choices we're making right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u65	This isn't good to explain, is it? Together, we find that the shortage of teachers is increasing. We know that. That won't be resolved in two years. Then we can also see together that after the next two years there must be money and that structural investment is therefore needed. My question to the VVD is why the VVD denies this. Those numbers aren't invented. Those are just facts on the table. There has been a long and wide-ranging study of the problem in education. We also know what the solutions are. Why does the VVD deny that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u66	Because the problems are bigger than just the money that goes in. Over the past 22 years, some 160% more has gone to education. The education budget has been pushed out enormously. You can't say that the quality has also increased proportionally. The quality has fallen, but we have invested more money. I think you should also ask yourself if what we're doing right now fits in with the time we have now. We have an education system 100 years ago, appropriate to the society of that time. That society has changed completely. That is why I think it is very interesting not only to look at what is needed for the current system. What would happen if we made adjustments to that, better suited to the time we have now? That will also be a run-up to the next election programme of the VVD. Then we don't talk directly about extra structural money, but then we really look more broadly at education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u67	Finally, Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u68	Does the VVD really think that with this occasional expenditure, with this occasional investment in education, the longer-term problems have been solved?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u69	There's something we can do before 2020. That was not conceivable a few months ago. So I'm really glad we can do something. There are resources for both primary and secondary education. The collective agreement table will determine how they will be used, but we can just do something. I'm just really happy about that. I really get your side of the story, saying it's not enough, but I see we can do something that wasn't possible at first. I'm just taking a different position.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u70	It is truly a mystery to me how Mr Heerema can claim that it is moving in the right direction when the whole country, teaching the Netherlands, is striking and constantly sending out signals that the water is up to the lips. How can Mr Heerema say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u71	Because in the conversations I have and in the work visits I make, I notice that the work pressure equipment has a real effect on schools. Because I see the influx on the pabo is higher than before. Because I see that the salary position of teachers has improved compared to last year. Because I see that they increasingly choose to come from their old job to education. Because I see that the guidance of the side-intromers will be further improved in the near future. So I see positive things.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u72	Of course, you can always see positive things when you see them, and maybe it also fits the race-to-the-bottom ideology of the VVD to see those points of light, but the question that the VVD doesn't answer, not even in the two previous interruptions, is: at what point is the VVD prepared to talk about structural solutions, after the amount that is now available? That is what is needed. Let me put it this way: does the VVD recognise that there is a structural problem? 'Cause maybe we should start with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u73	If we continue on the same path as we do now, there is that problem. We will all, all parties, make choices in the next 1.5 years towards the forthcoming elections. I think it is interesting for everyone, for us as colleagues watching each other's programmes, but especially for the people sitting here in the gallery, sitting at home, standing on the Square and standing on the Lange Voorhout, what is in the election programmes about what we think about education. I am convinced that I can tell a better story than we have perhaps done in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u74	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u75	Well, we'll see. It is good to see that the VVD recognises that there is a real structural problem, but it is disappointing that the VVD does not want to talk about it at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u76	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u77	Mr. Chairman. I read all the accusations about how the trial went down, right up to supposed threats. I can't imagine anything about that. I hope the Minister will be able to explain this a little more. Mr. Chairman. Let me be clear: it is not possible for me to discuss the fact that the agreement to better reward teachers in special education for the challenging work they do will be changed because signatures will be obtained from under an agreement. Mr. Chairman. Work pressure equipment must also be brought forward. That extra money is just needed in class. Most of this money, the 300 million which is occasional, for both primary and secondary education, is very useful to teachers. So I'm saying it shouldn't be the case that this extra money goes into a school's bank account. How can we guarantee that, because I want this money to go directly to the teacher or it to be used to use it in those places where the shortage of teachers hits the hardest. Mr. Chairman. Then I'd like to go wider. I have tabled an amendment which I do not think is yet in place to further support and better guide side-influxers, because I see beautiful side-influx results. Education should be proud of that. The greatest danger, and I heard that just outside the Square as well, is the lack of good guidance. I have asked before whether schools can use their reserves for these occasional investments. We are now helping to bring more people from outside education to education, and it would be nice if school boards also pay extra attention to this. Because the money in the bank is intended for education, and this seems to me to be an excellent investment. Mr. Chairman. Of course, it is not just about side-intromers who, after a social career, opt for education. In recent years, more and more young people have opted for a study at the pabo. There is something about the pabo in the coalition agreement, namely that there must be differentiation. I'd like to give the Minister what I understand below. There must be a special direction for the teacher who only wants to teach the younger child. We did, that was successful, and it's wise to bring that back. This does not mean that there is a general pabo of a number of years with the specialization "kindergarten," but a real pabo-direction, specifically for the younger child. This also means that there must be a specific direction for the older child, again not as a specialization after a number of basic years, but as a direction for students who consciously choose to teach the older child. The fact that there is also a broader direction, like the current pabo, in which a teacher is widely employable, is of course always fine. Mr. Chairman. Minister Van Engelshoven is busy with all kinds of things. I will not mention examples.... but she has not yet taken any steps to make the pabo more attractive. That is why I will be presenting a motion with Mr Rog to implement this as soon as possible. Everything we do, extra money, higher salaries, less workload, more opportunities for side-influx and therefore also now a more attractive pabo-training with more opportunities and better preparation for teaching, should ensure more status of the profession. The commitment we are making is, of course, based on the education we have now. I can imagine that with all the possibilities that we have, whether they are desirable, or which we do not yet know but which will come in the future, we would perhaps shape the foundational education differently. I have said before that I think it is really weird that we allow children to go to school at the age of four when they may be in a much earlier state or are not ready yet, but then they should not stay in childcare because they are too old for that. Could we not now make this transition more flexible? This is difficult, with different laws and regulations and different ministries under which it is covered, but if you look at the individual child that we want to help as best we can, this is at least interesting to explore. There is, of course, another link in basic education. That is the transition to secondary education. Instead of looking at one point, I would like to look at both points. There are boards which include childcare, integrated child centres, primary education and secondary education. I would like to ask the Minister whether he is prepared to give some of these specific authorities, such as here very close to Lucas in The Hague, the opportunity to redesign the whole foundational education as a pilot. Flexibility in the subject always has my attention. When I was a teacher myself, at pilot schools and such, I really liked doing that. I tabled a motion some time ago on the experiment flexible teaching times. What's going on with that? Do the schools already know where it went well that they can go on? And what is needed to ensure that more schools that have at least one sufficient use of this space? Yes, there are schools where things didn't go well, but I focus on schools where wonderful results have been achieved, where teachers do not experience work pressure and where students can go through education more at their own pace. I also have a question about another motion which has been widely adopted. It was about the own contribution for children who are gifted. If you are dyslexic, or autistic, or have a physical disability, then all kinds of collaboration support is possible. Of course you do not have to pay your own contribution, but if you are gifted, you sometimes have to pay hundreds of euros extra for that one hour of guidance. You can't help it, you're gifted, you're born with it. That can be very difficult if you're not properly supervised. For many gifted people, our education system is far from appropriate. It's not for nothing that a third of the homeowners are gifted. But the fact that you also have to pay your own contribution for that inappropriate system is very harsh, especially if the partnerships have enough money for this. The motion adopted called for a ban on its own contribution to the education of highly gifted people, but I still receive dozens of emails from parents that the partnership and the school do not care about. A small selection of the total: the Burgerschool in Dokkum, CBS Klaverblad in Leeuwarden, Abel Tasman in Groningen, De Kloostertuin in Drenthe, unIQ in Amsterdam, De Vincent in Midden-Brabant, Elementary School Kronenburgh Haaglanden, the Leeuwarder School Association in Leeuwarden, De Hazespring in Nijmegen, Het Talent in Nijmegen, sometimes ask for absurdly high own contributions for students who are gifted. The Minister also feels that this is not possible. That is what he himself states in the answer to the factual questions. What do we have to do to stop this? Is the Minister considering sanctions against schools and partnerships?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u78	Let's see if we can agree on something today. We're just gonna try.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u79	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u80	I agree with you when it comes to this own contribution to education for highly gifted students. You should be able to do that inside the school. Well, there's been a problem in special education for a long time, apart from the salaries we were just talking about, namely that the classes are too full, that there are waiting lists and that you shouldn't set up a new school for special education. This means that you cannot set up a school, specializing in behavioural problems, specializing in autism, specializing in gift. Could we not put an end to this today? By stopping the moratorium on the creation of new schools for special education with good guidance? And that we say, "Yeah, that's allowed, to set up a school like that"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u81	I think we read in the newspaper a week or two or three ago what the problems are, especially in that special education. At that time the Minister said: I am shocked by this, I am consulting with the field and I think we should look for ways of solving this, because I agree with you that it is not good that there are too few places in special education for the children who are best placed there. It is very strange that we have a few thousand gifted children but that they simply do not have a place in mainstream education and need other education because they simply do not come to justice in a regular school. So I'm definitely willing to look into that. Perhaps this is a first step, because I think we could agree on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u82	I'll count my blessings for now. I'll just walk by.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u83	Nice to meet you, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u84	But don't get used to it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u85	It is crazy to say that there is hardly any appropriate education for this particular group of children and that they still have to pay for the support they need. Mr President, you have seen me pass an amendment on sports talents in education. There are about 7.000 NOC*NSF indicated top sports talents in the Netherlands. Of these top sports talents, 4,000 are at a top sports talent school and can therefore use the scope of the LOOT policy to get support to do the best possible combination of education and top sport. But there are also about 3,000 top sports talent students at a regular school. Children who are just as good, just as often train and also often struggle with the combination of education and top sports. They do not go to a top sports school because there is simply not one nearby and the travel time is too much to take advantage of the benefits. Whether the LOOT school nearby is simply of insufficient quality. Or the level of education you can and want to do is not offered by the school. This is especially true for top sports talents in vmbo or at gymnasium level. This can be done better, because every talent deserves to get the benefits of the policy rule. I would therefore like each of the top sports talents to be able to conclude a contract with a vo-school, making both parties commit themselves to the best possible implementation of the combination of education and top sport, using the space provided by the LOOT policy rule. It is therefore no longer reserved for the LOOT schools, but for those schools which conclude this contract. A school can of course also say no to this request to conclude a contract. Those 3,000 top sports students can also help, calls for more manpower from the LOOT Foundation and I would like to release these resources because we can support 3,000 children with an Olympic dream. One last question. If I am right, the European Board of Governors will have to decide at the beginning of December on the relocation of the European School in Bergen. This school was based here in connection with the EU Joined Research Centre in Petten. In the meantime, 90 students have already applied because of the arrival of the EEA. The parents have to make choices, where they're going to buy a house, which sports club they're going to find out and which school is best suited. Something has to be done. Can the Minister submit a proposal to the Board of Governors in good time? Has the programme of demands already been sent to Alkmaar and the other two municipalities? The employees of the EEA would like to know where they stand. It seems that this is an unnecessarily slow procedure. Can the Minister tell me how we can get this going, so that Alkmaar, for example, knows where it is going, what it has to comply with and what cooperation needs to be sought?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u86	I think you're almost done, or were you done already?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u87	No, almost.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u88	Maybe it's a good thing you finish your story. I see that Mr Van Meenen agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u89	I do. The final part, before my colleague Dennis Wiersma takes over. I have already spoken for a while about children with special talents who, for whatever reason, cannot receive the guidance that is needed. Very specifically, this also affects children who, for example, have a great sports talent, but have to do with a financial home situation as a result of which they cannot get the best out of themselves. I believe that children with special talents should always have the opportunity to pursue their dreams, and perhaps make the whole country proud of what "we" have achieved. That is why I tabled an amendment to provide this group of children with additional support by setting up a facility through NOC*NSF to pay travel expenses, contributions and materials, for example, so that the combination of education and top sport can be achieved as effectively as possible. I'm really glad I found this space, because this really makes the difference in the lives of this particular group of children. After the interruption, my colleague, Dennis Wiersma, has the honour to take over.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u90	Mr. Chairman. I am going to contribute a little bit to that beautiful little bridge to Mr Wiersma, because Mr Wiersma...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u91	The expectations are high, Mr Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u92	Mr Wiersma has recently proposed that unauthorized people be placed in the MBO classroom. The Minister's words recently showed that he might think that parents should also be in front of the classroom. My question to Mr Heerema is what the VVD's position is. Does Mr. Heerema think that a solution to the shortage of teachers would be that we are going to allow unauthorized persons for the classroom?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u93	For MBO, the proposal has been made by my colleague Wiersma, who will undoubtedly be able to tell it much better than I do, to ensure that people with a technical background in industry can make a contribution at school to the subjects for which teachers are difficult to find. That's how you get that technical education to get a boost, and you make sure that kids just get the lessons they're supposed to get. And yes, they do have to get that teaching power, but they don't have to be authorized right away. That's one. The second is: I think it should be a solution in as few cases as possible that, if the school decides to do so, a parent should be in front of the classroom. I have never understood that statement by the Minister, but there has been a G4/G5 meeting, of the four or five largest cities, with the Minister. I think it was a question of taking unorthodox measures. This was one of the parts they asked for at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u94	Then Mr Wiersma does not have to repeat this again, I suppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u95	That is what Mr Wiersma himself is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u96	The point is that it is not said twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u97	My question is really about primary and secondary education. I come to that because Mr Wiersma has made this bad proposal for the MBO. My question is very explicit: does Mr Heerema agree with me that the last thing we need to do to combat the shortage of teachers is unauthorized, for example parents, unless they have a power to place......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That might also be a boost for education, but a great boost in the middle of your face of the prestige of the teacher's profession.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u98	It's supposed to be the last one. That is exactly what Mr Van Meenen is asking me to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u99	Okay, then let me be more specific. Does Mr. Heerema agree with me that we should never do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u100	I believe that there should never be any unauthorized teachers in the classroom unless they are side-intromers, who are engaged in training, or people from the pabo, who are almost finished with the training and at school helping to at least teach classes. But if there is a need in the G4 itself to send home as few classes as possible and they call this unorthodox measure a solution, I have understood it from the words of the minister or from the contribution that has been made, I am in fact against it, but if they do it when it is approved by the education inspector, I think we have little to do with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u101	I said before, let's keep looking at the facts. Mr Heerema spoke of an expanding education budget. If we look at the percentage we spend on education compared to the whole budget, we see that it is not much higher than in 2015. In fact, it's lower. I do not know exactly what those amounts last Friday are doing with this, but we can see that the contribution to education over the last few years has not increased much compared to the whole budget. I would like to ask him: how does he rhyme with statements like 'it's going so well' and with statements about this expanding education budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u102	The fact is that over the past ten, fifteen, twenty years more money has been added to the education budget. You relate that to the total budget, percentagely. I just have the numbers you can see in front of you, and there's an increase in that. The fact that expenditure may not have increased in percentage terms may perhaps be due to the shrinking of the number of pupils. There are just fewer pupils receiving education and so less is spent on education per pupil. That could be a reason or argument. I don't know any other argument either. All I know is that if you put the amounts a year in succession, you'll see an increase in that. I think that's a fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u103	I have often said in education debates that we are glad that this cabinet is investing something. That it's not enough, I've said it all the time. Actually, I'd like to go to this. All the teachers who are on strike and sitting here in the gallery say: let us now ensure that it becomes structural. In his speech, Mr Heerema said: I can tell you that the VVD plans for the coming cabinet period are going to look a little better. That's a good thing. I would ask him to be more specific about that. Can you promise that the next cabinet period, including your responsibility as the largest government party, will be structuralally what is being done to close that pay gap and to work on salary reduction among teachers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u104	Did you just say "salary reduction among teachers"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u105	She was probably referring to magnification.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u106	Increase. I thought I heard it wrong. I couldn't have imagined that either from the corner of GroenLinks, but I'll read the Acts later. No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u107	It has been corrected.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u108	I believe that this question has already been asked by my colleague, and I have already replied to it that I will repeat it exactly. We are not going to make any statements about structural money during this period. We are going to go to another period with new negotiations, and perhaps your party will remain at the table in order to see how this could possibly be shaped. But I'm not gonna make any statements about that. You may be prepared to indicate what you want for education after the elections during this period. I'd rather be on an election program like that, which also backs up members and voters.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u109	I have just heard Mr Heerema say: I am not going to say anything about structural money. Those 3,000 athletes you were just talking about and what you want to make money for to support them. We can support that, too. Is that structural money or occasional money?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u110	This is a shift in the budget from structural money to structural money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u111	Okay. Well, at least we agree that there can be a structural discussion. That's profit. So you do want to talk about that. That's fine. I would like to touch on another subject, Mr President. Today there is another message in The Guardian: 11,000 scientists warn about the enormous climate change, the crisis we are in. Does the VVD not agree that it is high time to prepare the students for the climate crisis, the ecological disaster that awaits them? How are we gonna do that? Can we talk about this structurally, or does the VVD say again: not now, that will come sometime?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u112	Two answers. I think we have seen from the climate strike some time ago that young people are very aware and know what is going on. They are also willing to leave a day of school to come to The Hague to let us know what they think. I have no signal that that would not be discussed in schools. I think that this is covered in all kinds of subjects, and I think that is very good. We have the curriculum.nu, which I do not want to talk about now, because we have agreed on a separate course. That will undoubtedly be given a place, certainly from your party, if you make proposals for it. So, yes, I honestly do not think that this budget treatment is the right place for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u113	I was just about to say something about that. Climate is very important and we often talk about it. Of course, everything has to do with everything, but I would like to limit it here to the budget of Education, Culture and Science, Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u114	Mr President, to please you, I will leave it at that for now. But I'll get back to you in my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u115	That's good. You're free to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u116	I do have a dragonfly here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u117	Mr Van Raan did not hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u118	No, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u119	I hear Mr Rudmer Heerema talking about customization for gifted children, about customization for children who are on a sports course. But there is a large group of children for whom I think we need tailor-made work, and those are children who may have less chance in our education. We have actually been reading great warnings for a long time, including from the education inspector, that the shortage of teachers is a threat to equality of opportunity. Those of you who see classes bulging out in some schools and that it is even harder to find a teacher in some schools. We also read that for many thousands of euros you can buy a place in a small classroom, where a teacher is guaranteed to be in front of the classroom. I would very much like to hear from Mr Heerema whether he agrees with us and, by the way, with the G4, that there is also a need for tailor-made solutions, such as an equal bonus for teachers in schools with a challenging student population.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u120	I think this call is the same as the PvdA alderman did in Amsterdam. He also pleaded for that big city bonus. Perhaps they can agree to this in the collective bargaining agreement with the money we make available. My text literally said that I want the money to go directly to the teachers or to the places where the shortage of teachers hits the hardest. That was literally in my text and I read it literally here. But each party makes choices that it puts the extra emphasis on. I put that extra emphasis on gift. I place that emphasis on the talents in education because I find that not many other colleagues often stand up for that. For example, we have also stood up for the severely limited children. Also one of those groups for which they were skippering for years. The question was, what can we do with that? I'm really glad we found extra money to help those kids structurally. I am concerned not only with the large group of children in education, but also with the children with whom there is something special and which we can help.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u121	Of course, all these groups of children are very important. Our whole education is important. I think that is something that we all agree on in this Chamber today. I still don't hear an answer to my question. Does Mr Heerma share the concern that the lack of teachers increases the inequality of opportunity? What solutions does he see to ensure that the children who do not get it from home to be helped at home with their homework and the children who sit at a school where there is even more difficulty finding a teacher do not become the child of the account?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u122	I have mentioned twice in my contribution a list of measures that we are putting in place precisely in order to control the shortage of teachers as well as possible. That's my answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u123	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u124	Then I insist that these are occasional solutions to structural problems. For that, we really need structural solutions now, not tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, so that every child is sure of a teacher for the classroom and not just the children of those parents who can afford private school.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u125	Then I insist that I have given the answer on a number of occasions on a structural and occasional basis. It's nice to ask three, four, five times, but the answer just stays the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u126	I would like to join with Mr Westerveld's interruption. She pointed out that the budget for education remained broadly the same in the total budget and in relation to the rate mentioned by Mr Heerma 22 years ago. I thought it was clear from Mr Heerma's reaction that this was actually wiped off the table a little bit. Eventually, the budget increased 160%. Does Mr Heerma agree with me that this percentage share is indeed very important in order to get a real picture of what has happened in the education budget? If you take an inflation rate of between 2% and 2.5% alone, does it make sense that the amount is now 160%?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u127	In my opinion, it should be related to the number of pupils, the number of schools we have and the resources that may or may not remain on the boards. In my view, there are many more aspects to mention than just a percentage increase, decrease or a percentage stay the same. I tried to put that down. There are just more buttons that are turned on and there is more to what one is doing. You have to take that into account if you want to say something about the education budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u128	I'll be the last to deny that. That's obvious. There's never a single explanation. I'm talking about sweeping that nonchalante off the table. That's what I'm gonna take for granted. The education budget has remained relatively the same, in percentage terms, throughout the budget. That's all I care about. That is also a point to take into account in the recitals. I would like to give that to Mr Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u129	Thank you for giving this signal by Mr Bishop of the SGP. If it is true that it has remained the same percentage, then we still have to be very concerned because the quality has decreased with equal spending, if you see it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u130	Finally, Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u131	Add another point. I find the 22-year limit very strange.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u132	I read it on Twitter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u133	That's what I read on Twitter, but that's weird. It makes sense to take 20 or 30 years. What is not visible in this is the zero line that has been consistently applied during the Rutte I and II Cabinets. It doesn't show up in that percentage. So the story in there needs to be more nuanced. Then you can see that that zero line...... that is my perception in any case... has caused enormous damage and delay in education. That is why we are now being attacked by all kinds of problems that education has to deal with: workload, class size, salary and all that sort of thing. I'd like to give that to you, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u134	I think it is too easy to say that the responsibility for what is happening now lies only in recent years. If you read the reconstructions, then there are also comments about ministers from many cabinets before that, who saw this coming and then did nothing with it. But I'm taking that nuance with me. I like to take over that nuance, because it is indeed more than just a bar diagram that rises or drops.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u135	But even about that bar diagram a lot of fog is already created. I brought him here for a while. Between 2009 and 2016, in absolute terms, the money that went to primary education decreased. Between 2009 and 2016, in absolute terms, the money that went to secondary education fell. Between 2009 and 2019, the percentage of the budget we spend on education decreased from 5.5% to 5%. I have to say to Mr Bishop that it was the two previous Rutte Cabinets that have caused teachers' salaries to fall so far behind those of other HBO or university-educated colleagues. Could Mr Heerema, having been able to take note of these figures, be somewhat more open when it comes to structural investment in education, not because it comes from the sky, but simply because teachers are entitled to it after years of zero?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u136	Yes, and that is precisely why the Rutte III cabinet has made money available for teachers' salaries and that there can be a collective agreement at the moment in which there can be an increase in salaries of a certain percentage. I'm very happy about that. Teachers are entitled to that. But I think this is the sixth question on structural and occasional money...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u137	Yes, and this is the sixth answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u138	... and again my answer remains the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u139	It started with a factual correction, but it indeed ended in a request. If Mr Heerema himself finds that the shortage of teachers is going to increase in the coming years, he said so, can he not be satisfied with the way things are going? If a problem becomes greater under our responsibility, then we are not doing enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u140	Everything we do will improve in the future. I'm really convinced of that. With the higher influx in the pabo, the better guidance of side-intromers and an adjustment of the pabo I am really convinced that we are moving in the right direction. That is my answer to the problems we are facing at the moment, so that is also the answer you will receive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u141	Finally, Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u142	The VVD seems to say: the house is on fire and we are upgraded from a bucket to a garden hose. That's really good, but you're not gonna put the house out in the end. When does the VVD get the insight that it really needs more to deal with the shortage of teachers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u143	It is not just the salaries that Mr Kwint keeps talking about. I have already indicated that I am repeating that this is a broader package and I believe that we are working on it. That's what I'd like to keep going here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u144	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wiersma on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u145	Madam President, thank you. Since September, I have been allowed to deal with higher education and science, and I find that an enormous honour. I almost certainly owe it to higher education that I'm standing here. I was allowed to stack and end up in college. I didn't like it there. I went against education, became active in student politics, and before you know it, you get hit by politics and you stand here. Mr. Chairman. Maybe you'll recognize the feeling you get when you get back to where you've been before, whether that's a holiday destination, a hobby you haven't done for years, but now you're picking up again or an old love you'll encounter and fall for again. Then you look back and you think, "Hey, I know a lot of things." Or you think: yes, I see things sharper and I wonder how things have evolved. I'm going to share with you today what insights I've come across in the short time I'm allowed to deal with this portfolio. There's actually two faces in there. On the one hand, there's an incredible amount of good going, a lot of good. We have world science. We have Nobel Prize winners; think of Ben Feringa in 2016. We have a lot of universities in the top 100. We have beautiful vocational education, from mega-important education, the MBO, to higher vocational education. We have a lot of public-private partnership. That's one face, that's radiant. We also have another face: the face of pressure, with researchers, with teachers, with students, about quality, about connection, also with a view to the future. On those two faces, especially of course that less happy face, the unrest, I hope to hear a critical reflection from this minister. She's halfway through her term now. I wonder how she intends to remove the unrest she sees over the next two years. Because that's what the VVD cares about. We have such beautiful education. We need to hold on to that, and we need to change things for that. We also need to remove unrest. What's the Minister's agenda on that? Mr. Chairman. Sometimes a number says more than a thousand words. Eighteen hundred sixteen. Do you remember? No, it's not a hit at... It is the number of choices you have when you have done the vwo with a nature and health profile. 1.816 choices: Stand on them. Handsome head if you can get out of there and make the right choice. It turns out that we don't always do that either, because the number of outliers and switchers is high. 1.402 is another number, namely if you opt for economics and society in the Havo. What an incredible number of choices you have to make at that age. Another number: 49%. 49% of students in the HBO are satisfied with the connection to professional practice. A five. 49%, less than half, is satisfied. Look at the universities: 31% are dissatisfied, 39% are satisfied with the preparation. There's another group in there. If we split that up, we'll get to a five. That less happy face is a serious concern. On the other hand, there is the OECD. Happy face: The Netherlands scores well. Students find work fast. You could cynically say: it is quite handsome that with so many training courses and such poor satisfaction we still end up nicely. The question is, of course, how we are going to do this in the future, if we know much less about what the world is going to look like and what knowledge is needed. We know that the changes are moving faster and faster, but what jobs and what functions are there and what you expect from education, we actually know much less. The question is also whether we are fast enough in education to respond to this. My answer, two months after I was allowed to start this portfolio, is: no, we're not. We're not fast enough. We have flexibilisation agendas, but we're not doing it fast enough. Whether you are young or, as is increasingly the case, older, you want education to be ready for you at different times in your life, that it can offer you new perspective, that it improves your expertise, and, increasingly importantly, that it teaches you entrepreneurial skills. That means demand-driven education. If we have enough, I ask the Minister. I don't think so. We sometimes have high-quality education, but not in many places yet. I spoke to students from Utrecht University of Applied Sciences on Friday who saw that their college is dangling at the bottom of the lists and are very worried about that high quality level. They doubt whether they have more to do with just looking for a job in the labour market than to follow a follow-up study on HBO after MBO. But you also want education that you can fill in and combine flexibly. Is that right now? Have we done enough? Would you like a reflection from the Minister? Do we always do that in good co-production with business? I spoke to a student from Delft, where the internships were removed from the program because the program is so heavy that they can't get into it anymore. Yeah, what do we choose? Mr. Chairman. Do we have a suitable offer for every Dutchman? Suppose you're a little bit older, have been working for a long time and think: I have good qualities, good skills and would fit a diploma; can't I go through some kind of car wash to turn the skills acquired into a diploma? It's hardly happening yet. Employers have no idea how to do that. Mr. Chairman. An active talent strategy towards abroad is not something only companies do. "Find out, get the good people." No, there's a war on talent. We need good people for the future and we will also have to make our own choices about how we bring these people here and trick them into setting up their lives in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Another discussion we need to engage in is to provide incentives to people in areas where we have the greatest societal challenges. How can we get people excited to opt for technology, for example? We just don't go far enough. Mr. Chairman. I already mentioned... I see there are interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u146	It is an interesting reflection, Mr Wiersma's first moments of wonder. It's a little Tintin in scienceland. But instead of asking the ministers to reflect on all kinds of issues, they will undoubtedly want to do so. It is also useful to say once in a while what the VVD wants. I would like to make one point: the problem outlined by Mr Wiersma that there seems to be too much freedom of choice for people in secondary education when it comes to further education. Why is that a problem? And above all: what does the VVD want to do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u147	Thank you for that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u148	The interruption is short and the answer can also be very short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u149	You act like you need to tell me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u150	I know you a little bit. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u151	See if I can pass this exam, Chairman. Thank you. I liked getting an introduction. I come now to a lot of concrete points. I am going to serve you with that, but you are now giving me the opportunity to save some speaking time through an interruption, so I am happy to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u152	There you go!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u153	What strikes me in these 1,816 courses is that they are generally one-taste courses: full-time, regular education. What I would like to do is to add new flavors to education. Not only the full-time learning route, but I'd love to have a practical route as well. On the MBO we have the BBO, the vocational guidance route, and why don't we do that in higher education too? Not only in HBO, but also in universities. Why should we not see how we can offer such a practical route in as many training courses as possible? On the other hand, distance learning would be an additional taste. I would therefore like to add two flavours: the practical route and distance learning. There is already a lot of inclusion in universities at lectures and so on. That's all publicly paid and often we scale it up. But if someone wants to do a second study, we ask for a huge amount of institutional tuition. If you could follow a large part of it remotely, it would be much more interesting to offer it economically. Then we don't make it unnecessarily difficult for the students and let them choose what their learning needs are. In any case, I would like to make these proposals, and I would like to come up with a number more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u154	That it is ridiculous that we are asking for a high institutional fee for a second study, I fully agree with Mr Wiersma. Let's try to fix that. Still, just for clarity. I now understand that 1,816 flavours are not a problem, Mr Wiersma wants to add more flavours. I agree with that and I think this is what he says: there are a lot of fixed programs, but I want many more variants. So that's gonna be another 36 or something. Is that about how I'm supposed to see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u155	I see we have a lot of flavors, but actually it's not much flavor. It's one flavor. They are a lot of choices, but not only young people, but also people who are already in their careers want to choose how to complete education for their own learning needs. One needs to do this in combination with working in practice, the other likes to do it remotely. All of these 1,816 choices are focused on one taste: full-time regular education. I spoke to a student in Delft who said to me, "I do maritime technology, but I haven't seen a boat in my training. I'm gonna be trained to do that eventually. I would be happy to do a year longer about my bachelor if I can get practical experience and a contract of employment." That's not in education. That 1,816 is a unitary sausage. It seems a lot, but we need to ensure sufficient tastes that match the learning needs of young people, as well as those who are in their careers and want to do something else. I note that we do not have enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u156	In general, I would recommend students who want to see boats during their studies to study in a port city. That seems to me to be the most effective way to solve that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u157	You can tell her yourself. You're joking, but I don't think that's why this student can laugh. He thinks it is a serious problem that she is about to enter the labour market and actually has too little experience with the practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u158	Mr. Wiersma, Mr. Futselaar hasn't finished his sentence yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u159	No, Mr. Chairman. I like to come to Delft and I am very happy to talk to maritime engineering students, just like with aerospace students, who haven't necessarily seen a satellite on every part of their studies either. I have a bit of trouble following the argument: there are many tastes, but there are some more because all tastes are the same. Like, there's 1,800 flavors of vanilla and I want chocolate with it. In any case, I do not see a very big problem in the supply of the 1,816 flavors. More routes? As far as the SP is concerned, please. That's something we can talk about. One last comment, Mr President, and I'll sit down. Mr Wiersma also raises the question of how to get more students into technical education. There is a very simple answer to that: salaries in technology need to be raised. It is a fantastic way to solve that problem through market forces.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u160	You may respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u161	I will respond to the latter in this way, but we agree on the first. My point about the number of courses is that it is best for upcoming students to find out how to make a good choice out of that huge offer. I think we'd better help students. I don't have a problem with the number, but I do have a problem with how we can help the students make a good choice. I also have a problem with what we offer the students to learn, to taste. I would therefore like to see the practical route and the distance route become more mature in higher education. I also think that this will help the institutions that have been funded to play a role for people who have been working a little longer and who would like to go back to education. Then there's the technique. I think that's a very good call. I'm just not about collective agreements, and unfortunately neither is the SP. So we're sitting together looking for that. In the context of the SP call, I would just like to say that it is very important to do our best to get as many people as possible excited about technology. Because if we do not succeed, then we will see that companies have to compete with a lot of other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u162	But you're all agreed on that, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u163	Let's leave it at that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u164	That's the way it is, Mr. Chairman. I would like to move on to something that we can sort of point out between the lines from what Mr Wiersma said. He gave the example of a student who is actually very busy and would rather work for a year. I think that's a good idea. The pressure on students to proceed immediately and immediately make the right choices is very great. In fact, Mr Wiersma, like the Party for Animals, pleads for more peace in higher education, so that you can make good choices. Can we now speak with Mr Wiersma of the VVD about how we are going to organise this structuralally, or is that a bit of casual chat in Mr Rudmer Heerema's school?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u165	The word "structural" now falls. I am very curious to see what Mr Van Raan means by that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u166	He just sketches an image based on one case, but that was a very clear case. He actually said, "Give students some space after their bachelor's degree so they can do a paid internship so that it can take a little longer." That might cost you a lot of money again. We need to organize that. You can't do that once. You have to do that structuralally. That's a change, a flexibilisation. If Mr Wiersma is in favour of having this discussion about structural investment now in order to bring more peace to that, I think that is a good thing. That seems to me to be a deviation from what Mr Rudmer Heerema just said. He said, "I don't talk about that; I only want that occasionally," although he did for his athletes. That's fine. I couldn't agree more. Mr Wiersma obviously wants to do the same today. That sounds like profit to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u167	When you talk about education, I think you should agree first on what you want with education. And then there's the question of how you're gonna finance that. I would like to extend the flexibilisation agenda in such a way that more attention is paid to a practical route and distance learning. My question to the Minister is whether we can take that into account. Then the question is: how are you going to finance that? That seems to me to be a very important question, because I would find it interesting if we could make distance learning more attractive, also financially, so that it becomes easier and financially more attractive to do alongside your work. I do not have a specific proposal for this now, because I would ask the Minister to include it in the agenda she is making.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u168	Finally, Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u169	It is good that Mr Wiersma wants to talk about structural matters, but Mr Heerema does not want to talk about them. Fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u170	I find that conclusion amazing again, but okay. Can I even respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u171	Of course. Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u172	I'll take a part of my text with me right away. One of the concrete proposals I would like to make here is to fund people by study point. That's flex study. We've talked about this before as a room. We can now see that that helps students very much. Student organisations are also enthusiastic about this. Students say: "I can choose how to organise my studies. If I want to combine this with entrepreneurship or administrative work, for example, I do not have to pay the full pound, but I can say that for this part I will pay a limited share of tuition fees this year." There are only five institutions involved now. There are also no institutions that can join that experiment. I would like to ask the Minister if we can ask institutions again to create this additional opportunity for students and, therefore, to consider taking part in this experiment. In many cases, institutions still do not make enough use of this instrument. Many more institutions can participate to help students by funding them per study point. I would therefore call on the Minister to do more, to encourage the other institutions to participate and not just to wait for the results from those five institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u173	Let me go back to what Mr Wiersma said earlier: we need a targeted strategy to get foreign talent to the Netherlands. We are both a bit the new Tintins here, in the sense that I too have just recently become spokesperson for Higher Education and Science. So I read with great interest Mr Wiersma's opinion piece on internationalisation. In that he actually said that attracting foreign students should be primarily about technology, because he said: we don't need smart Asians coming to steal our ideas, we need less law students from China than we do to a technology student from India and we need to make choices. That's why you're even proposing a maximum. First of all, I think: let's say that an Asian steals something when he has and not if he's just Asian anymore. But second of all, I thought the VVD was making the money. The CPB recently calculated that we all in the Netherlands earn up to €100,000 in foreign students, without having a maximum and without saying: only technical students are welcome. So why do you make that choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u174	Yeah, I think we should make choices; that's right. And I think we should have an offensive, sharp talent strategy, with which we tell each other who we need and where we mainly have deficits and how we can achieve the earning capacity of the Netherlands simply growth with each other. Then I do wonder whether we should pay a Thai psychology student here with a lot of government money, which we put in; because of course we also pay it from the government. Or should we say that there are 5,000 German psychology students coming to Groningen, is nice for them, but we don't know if that's best for us? I would therefore like us to make such a strategy and not just leave it to companies to decide: if they are in trouble and need talents, but help them actively to find those talents and make choices about what we do with our scarce resources. Because if we just put that in 20% to 25% of international students but haven't thought about who we really need and who we want to let stay here, then I don't think that's a good idea. If you want to pursue an unthought-out strategy, you will join what we have done so far. I just want a tooth. That is my appeal: an offensive strategy to think about who we mostly need here and how we help to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u175	Mr Wiersma is clearly not a fan of psychology, because he now mentions a Thai psychology student and in the article were all German psychology students. But you also mentioned the Chinese law students. You mentioned unrest in higher education. I notice that, too, and I have the idea that that has a lot to do with the image that many politicians actually think technology is more important than alpha- and gamma-sciences and medical sciences. It would be good for us to distance ourselves from this together. If you say that you think technology students are important and those law students from China are not, I think: this is the land of Hugo de Groot and this is the international city of peace and justice. The more Chinese people here learn how a democratic society and a democratic rule of law work, the better it is for the world? Don't you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u176	At the heart of the matter, I fully agree with that. I didn't specifically say "technics." I say that we need to think carefully about how we can seduce everyone who is important to the Netherlands to get here, help them to follow good education and also help them stay here. I'm just saying that we need to think carefully about what we specifically need. I do not think that by definition we need all those people around the world who see that beautiful Netherlands and who would like to come here to study. By the way, we can't handle all that either. It all costs money, too. I think we should make choices about that. I see we're not making those choices right now. So I would ask D66 to make that choice with us. That choice is not just a choice of technique. That is a choice for all the things we are very good at: water, food, agriculture, the energy transition. That is a wide range of things that I believe can contribute to the earning capacity of the Netherlands. But things are falling off, too. Then you must also be honest: do you want to spend our Dutch tax money on this or do you want to make those sharp choices with me to see where this is most needed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u177	I note that we are getting more taxpayers' money and that the CPB has also calculated it. So perhaps you can still respond to that. When it comes to making choices, you will mention a number of examples of technical universities. You say you want to set limits and you ask me to make choices. Do you indeed make the choice that people are welcome for technology, agriculture, food and so on, but not for psychology and for rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u178	Yeah, my whole call is to come up with such a strategy and make those choices, because I see we're not making them. You don't want to make them either. That's fine; I'll make them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u179	Then Mr... Van den Berge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u180	That's right, Mr. Chairman. I'm a little surprised that a VVD man makes a bit of a plea here for planning science. Not a planned economy, but planning science. As if we could think from The Hague what there is a need for. This is a very fundamental point. I often hear from scientists that they are increasingly seeking their salvation abroad, for example Germany where they can do fundamental and free research. Where they get a decent contract of employment and not a scholarship with which we are now experimenting in the Netherlands. Indeed, the government's policy is now aimed at taking money away from the mental and medical sciences to put it into engineering. However, I would like to ask Mr Wiersma whether we can distance ourselves from this today and make it a point that we need fundamental and free research. How can we in The Hague decide what research should be done and what innovations we need tomorrow? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u181	There are two things connected that I wouldn't want to connect. An offensive talent strategy simply stems from the fact that people in Oxford are calling targeted universities here to attract talent. It's Abu Dhabi offering free MBAs. It is because of Spain that offers all kinds of training for engineers. And what does the Netherlands do? We are sitting back and yelling about staff shortages and the fact that we need people and good-looking heads here. And what do we do? We let them all leave abroad or we make it impossible for them to come here. My plea, almost as you do, is right to do so. Then the second step is the investigation. We are incredibly in need of good research, not only in scientific education but also in HBO, practical research. I'll get to that. I think we should have a solid agenda on that which I believe has a huge opportunity now, because we are going to make a growth agenda with the cabinet and we are going to have an investment fund. I think that's the best chance we can find where we really need to go. I'm at your side trying to figure out how to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u182	I connect them on purpose, because of course they are closely connected. We see that a lot of good-looking heads, the Dutch Einsteins and Willie Roots, are going to seek their salvation abroad, because they do not get the space to do fundamental and free research, because they find that politics here wants more attention to science. GroenLinks wants that too, but not at the expense of medical and human sciences. They'll notice. So there is indeed an underlying view behind this, namely that we are going to steer which sectors of research should be carried out. That is something we should not do, as far as GroenLinks is concerned. I would like to have a more thoughtful view of this from Mr Wiersma. He started out so beautifully about the importance of science, the last Nobel Prize that a Dutchman has won. We did not ask Einstein in advance what the economic impact of his theory of relativity would be? I would like a response from Mr Wiersma on how he sees it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u183	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I doubt if...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u184	A brief reaction. Can you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u185	Yeah, and if you don't, you're gonna step in. I've got my eye on it by now. I do not think we are so far apart except that you say: it is completely unfocused, it will be fine, do it wide, see what happens. I think that, also in the context of the prosperity that we want to keep in the Netherlands in the future, we need to think carefully about where our greatest societal challenges lie. How do we ensure that we invest in it in a targeted way? Sometimes that's in technology, in key technologies such as quantum, nano, artificial intelligence, where we see whole agendas on... sometimes it's in regions where a lot of good things happen and sometimes it's on topics where very good things happen. I mentioned water, agriculture and food. There's the Netherlands really state of the art. I like it if we can do something that we are already doing well, even better, helping even more people in the world and making money with it. That doesn't rule out doing things that you don't quite know what's coming out of, but which might deliver the next key technology or the next smart invention on water. It's en-and.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u186	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u187	Finally. I have faith in the curiosity, commitment and talent of our scientists. Don't play one science against another. We need them all. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u188	I have that confidence, but I also think that the government can't just say it's gonna be okay, because things are happening. She has to be on the wheel herself to make sure you get win-win effects. I think we can achieve more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u189	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u190	Mr. Chairman. In fact, then, we come to entrepreneurship on our own. There are wonderful companies of students who started an enterprise during their studies. Booking.com and home delivery.nl are great examples. There are also very nice initiatives that have led to a kind of enterprise: the Hyperloop where students are working on great technologies to move forward in the world. We see more and more entrepreneurial skills coming into education. I think we can get another shovel on top of it. I wonder how the Minister sees that. In the meantime, there are also discussions that we need to tackle. One discussion is about intellectual property. If you have an idea and you may have used your university's lab once, you will of course be greatly encouraged to continue and start your own business. Now students run into discussions about intellectual property. They can't knock on an accelerator or a grant program because they don't have the property. After that, a lot of students quit. I hear those noises and I would like the Minister to encourage entrepreneurship and find where the current guidelines can be improved to address bottlenecks for students. Mr. Chairman. Doing something besides studying can be entrepreneurship, but it can be a lot more. It can also be administrative or voluntary work. Those are things you choose. They can also be things you unfortunately do not choose, such as sickness or family care. Something that needs to be done, a situation of force majeure. In higher education, we have one big pot with a complicated word, the Profiling Fund. You can see that this is too little known. That pot is there to help students to do whatever they want or need to do besides their studies. But there's not enough fame. I would like to ask whether the Minister can see opportunities to increase awareness and prevent additional demands from being made by institutions, as is currently the case. For example, you have to make so many points. Well, then it's gonna be really complicated to do something besides college. Maybe I wouldn't be standing here either. I think that's a shame. Also force majeure: it's all from the big pot. Whether you're sick or doing top-notch sports, it's one big pot. Shouldn't we see how you prevent things from cannibalizing each other? I'd like a response from the Minister. I've got two loose points left, then I'll go into the investigation. First, the MBO. I have already referred to it as "mega-important vocational education." In recent years there have been discussions about green picking. During times of tightness, you see employers looking for staff and early picking people out of education. We've seen that for a number of years. I made a proposal a year and a half ago with a number of colleagues from the Chamber. I noticed that the Minister found time to respond two or three weeks ago. I don't think the action is enough. We called in the motion for a resolution for an agreement with employers on the obligation to make training possible and to ensure that someone actually obtains a starting qualification if he has not achieved it before in education. In this way we want to put the employer in the position that he is obliged to provide education. There are conversations, but this hasn't worked out yet. My question to the Minister is what opportunities it sees for doing more. Another point is citizenship. It is a difficult word for understanding and getting to know society, good to find your place in it and be able to participate. This is very important for secondary vocational education, but we do not allow it to be counted as such in the success or failure. It's not in the beating-bag scheme. That's weird, isn't it? We think it's important that we get people ready for society. We'll test, but it doesn't matter much, because your degree doesn't depend on it. Shouldn't we be looking more closely at that? Don't we think it's so important that we put it in the MBO at the top? Mortgages. If you have a loan from studying, how does it work out when you take out a mortgage? A number of student organisations also call for a discussion on this issue. For example, the ISO says: could you not take the current debt as a starting point instead of the original debt? You could also look at the standard amounts. I have heard that these are always viewed by Nibud and that they are related to a certain arithmetic interest rate. The calculation rate is very questionable in some cases, such as pensions. I heard the interest rate is 4.2%. In the coming years, we can really expect mortgage interest rates to be lower. Could we then adjust those standard amounts so that you can just be helped to buy that house anyway? I'd like a reflection from the Minister. I'll check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u191	I'd like to introduce... I think you're headed for a roundup. Is that right? Almost?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u192	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u193	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u194	I'm afraid to say yes or no again, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u195	I would really like to call on you to respond briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u196	Shall I just finish it then?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u197	Well, maybe that's a good idea. Don't you think? Yes. Please continue. Finish your contribution first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u198	There are now discussions about who needs to be finished. I wasn't looking for that. Research. I mentioned the practical research in HBO earlier. If you compare that to the research in scientific education, you can see that this is really limited. I like the fact that the Association of Colleges wants to make this a priority. I am also curious to see how the Minister intends to join. I would be very pleased if the Chamber could at some point see choices in them, see scenarios for how we can contribute to them. I also take a number of current points from the scientific research that I have seen and heard. One is the shared chair, whereby companies finance part of that chair. There seems to be some fear at universities about doing this. That's actually a shame, because if you do it the right way, it can contribute a lot. We also see discussions in artificial intelligence. Apparently, the sliding by Van Rijn has not yet allowed them to feel that they can always hire the right people there. So they have found the business ready to help with artificial intelligence. This is a good example, but there are also examples that show that companies are still hesitant. What role can the Minister play to get them excited to look for this? Another point is to stimulate the innovative capacity of research. How do we do that? This innovative capacity has an important role to play in the direction of the Minister. But in practice, we see that in research, criteria are often used, including for funding, which are still about the number of publications and the experience that already exists with the theme. Before you know it, you're gonna keep doing what you've already done and you're gonna go the safe way. I am curious if the Minister can make more use of fairs in which, for example, earlier publications on the subject do not play a role and where more attention is given to a general track record. Can we raise this innovative capacity on the agenda? A second point is the application pressure. That's still a big problem. The Minister is committed to limiting the applications at the front. So we set conditions for who can apply. But during the process, too, a lot of things can be better. What agenda does the Minister have on that? For example, when presenting research proposals in the context of Veni, Vidi and Vici, can you say: in the last round we will leave out those presentations, because we already know them very well; we are just going to draw lots. That saves a lot of judgment time, including for committees. Could we also distribute the current budget better? I received an example where a promoter could only apply for a Vici grant of a number of million euros. Then it must immediately become a huge project, while there can also be a very specific need for one PhD on one theme. How can we help so that the smaller need that sometimes exists does not immediately have to land in writing a large, overarching proposal? Mr President, those were my points on research. I see someone standing there, so I'd like to give them a chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u199	Me too. Were you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u200	Yes. Well, also: I look forward to the next two years, there is a lot of work to do and a lot of success. Something in that spirit, but I'm afraid to tell you in detail, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u201	Something in that spirit. Very good. Let's see. Then I'm going to see Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u202	I hope to be able to contribute a little bit to the wonder of Mr Wiersma. During his tour through scientific education and research, he mentions many fine points, such as the application pressure and the need to invest in it. Did he also look at the previous VVD election programme? It said 200 million had to go away from education and research. Does he share with me the wonder that this is amazing anyway and that we should do this differently next time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u203	Mr Wiersma, a brief response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u204	Then I should take a very good look at the reasons we had for that. I can say two things about how I weigh this. First of all, I think it's past the question of how we're going to help the Netherlands to maintain everything we have in the future. Well, that's convenient, because that's what the cabinet's gonna do. Think of prosperity growth and earning power. I believe that research and innovation are essential for this and that we need to do more with it rather than less. Let me say that. That's one. Two. What will help, and perhaps I would like to do that together as an encouragement towards this minister, is to also have the conversation with the CPB. Investment in such research and innovation should have an impact on what the CPB calculates. We should all appreciate that, because I do not think we can do ourselves any greater service than sending the minister out to fight it for each other. And then I don't rule out the fact that next time it's a much nicer amount.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u205	It is a very nice appeal to the CPB to take that into account, but I can't imagine that the fact that the CPB doesn't matter was the reason why the VVD advocated a cut in education and research. There was a generic discount of 200 million. You wanted 200 million off, we wanted a billion in education and research. We got to 400 million, so we got right in the middle between D66 and the VVD. If you promise me that you are going to make a big effort to increase the amount of education and research in the next VVD programme, I think that next time we can make an even more beautiful coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u206	I think that ambition is a little too low. We already have the opportunity to take serious steps with this investment fund. I'd want to put it together, too, so let's just add a little bit. And if Mr Paternotte had only the intention of telling us what he had in mind in his election programme, then I would like to give him that moment. But I'm looking together now for a way to make more of it. And that point of the CPB is not an argument at all; I'm just saying that it helps to get it done if it happens there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u207	But we are talking about next year's budget and not about elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u208	Sure, but I don't want Tintin to get away altogether. He's now quoting that investment fund. That is a very good thing, and that is what we must do for science. We share that. But it's a one-time thing. The 200 million that the VVD wanted to cut back was for every year. That 400 million we add to it is also for every year. So I would like to reiterate my appeal: make sure that the next election programme fits in with the fine speech you have just made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u209	That's a call. Then I will go to Mr Van den Berge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u210	It is good to hear that the VVD also wants to give priority to, I hope, the mental and medical sciences in the investment fund. We will also come forward with a proposal for this later in this debate. I therefore hope for support. I would now like to continue in secondary vocational education and the green picking. It is good that Mr Wiersma spoke about this. It is also a good thing that he also encourages this cabinet to do more about it. But I wonder how far we can go in that together. As far as we are concerned, employers who ask young people to receive training because they need a workforce can also be forced to invest a little more in real life-long development and to invest in getting these young people a start-up qualification. I wonder what Mr Wiersma says in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u211	Thank you for that question. I do not follow the summary that you gave first and in which you did not ask a question, because I did not say that there should be extra humanities. I think I told a slightly different story. I wasn't as specific as you. Anyway, we can talk about that when I see your proposal in a moment. Then your second point, green pick. I challenge you to go beyond what I have said so far. I don't think that's possible, because I want employers... I hear "sticks!" Screaming. That would indeed go one step further, a step I might not take. But I would think it wise to agree with the employers. I think you should do the same with the domes, but preferably with the individual employers. The moment you pick someone out of education, you actually have to agree with each other that you still have to make an effort to get an education and get that initial qualification. I think that if you don't want to do that as an employer, you shouldn't get someone out of education. I therefore believe that we should go further in this respect, but I also know that this has been going on for 1.5 years and that the Minister has also had these talks. She says it's complicated and she hasn't done it yet. So an extra encouragement from the Chamber is my pleasure. We can do that with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u212	Too bad to see that retreating movement at the investment fund...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u213	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u214	Anyway, we're gonna talk about that for another two days, so hopefully we'll figure it out. In terms of green picking, I think it's positive. The VVD advocates an effort obligation. As far as I am concerned and as far as GroenLinks is concerned, we go a little further, and we say: if a company withdraws someone from such training, then there will simply be an obligation to invest in a lifetime of developing and in obtaining a starting qualification. How does the VVD view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u215	We have a habit in the Netherlands of agreeing collective agreements. Most parties are very happy about this, because that is where employers and employees make these agreements with each other. I think it should land in those agreements. I would like the Minister to see what she can do at all without these collective agreements. Maybe she can also play a leading role in these collective agreements and inform us about what she has done. So, as far as I'm concerned, the result is paramount. I'd like to hang out with you in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u216	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u217	Then let's wait for the Minister's answer. As long as we ensure that the transition budgets and learning budgets already available in existing collective agreements are not used to tackle this new problem. It should not be a substitute for money that is already there, but new money should be added. Anyway, we're gonna talk about that for two more days, so hopefully we'll figure it out together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u218	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u219	I hate new problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u220	If you're in agreement, that's fine, too. That does not need to be repeated again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u221	But it can be very binding if ideological opposites hug each other for a while. I would like to return to Mr Wiersma's contribution to the loan system. He has outlined in striking words the misery involved, the consequences for young people, not only for the period they study, but also for the period after that. We all now share the feeling that this lending system has not been properly shaped.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u222	And the question is, Mr. Bishop?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u223	Very simple, Mr. Chairman. There is now an amendment tabled by Mr Westerveld and I to do something about this in the short term. Because I do hear words about the government agreement of 2021, but then we will be three years ahead, when we will be able to take steps next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u224	And the question is whether the amendment is supported by Mr Wiersma?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u225	You know how to sum it up, Mr President; congratulations!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u226	I'm gonna take a good look at that. I can't get away with this, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u227	No, you won't get away with that, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u228	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u229	The answer is, of course, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u230	I'm gonna take a good look at it. I can say a little bit more about it, because it does listen closely. Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, I'm just looking at you. There's been a discussion about the loan system. I have always been critical of this before the introduction. I think I can defend it, by the way. Four fifths of everything that happens in education is invested by the government, but you end up getting a lot in return, so I don't think an investment in yourself is crazy. At the same time, there is plenty to note. I think you're right to refer to the stacking. That includes questions such as: how do you get into the labour market, what do you build up with a contract, how much security do you get?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u231	But now for the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u232	No, Mr. Chairman, I'll finish it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u233	But I would also like to comment on the question. And that doesn't just apply to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u234	I'll go into that. Some things can be solved very quickly, some things less quickly. I have just made a proposal on mortgages. In the proposal made by Mr Bishop, I also see the question: what can you do now? Again, I'm gonna take a good look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u235	I would like to point out that there is structural cover in the amendment. In that respect it is neatly furnished.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u236	About two and a half hours ago Mr Wiersma went into mortgages in one block from the MBO. Then I thought, "Hey, now it's about the teacher's income position." Turns out it wasn't. I'd like to talk to you about the MBO teacher. In the past, agreements have been made to improve the growth of MBO teachers towards higher pay scales. We now see that, despite all the fine words, nothing has come of it. That is the problem not only in MBO, but also in primary school and secondary school. It's called the function mix, but everyone can forget about that. In primary and secondary education, we have therefore decided to stop: we simply give the money directly to the teachers and are not going to wait for how boards are going to spend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u237	What's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u238	Is Mr Wiersma prepared to see with me whether it is possible to take a similar step in the MBO?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u239	I'm just saying, I'm not a spokesperson, Mbo. You ask me a question, and the perfect answer to that, I'm going to give you in second term, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u240	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u241	Well, no, I find that very easy, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u242	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u243	I can see there's a discussion. Funds have also been made available to the MBO, and the question to the institutions is whether these funds have always been successful. I think that we should be the first to resolve this and make agreements with employers on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u244	But you'll come back to it in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u245	I give a half answer and hope that Mr Kwint will be able to move forward for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u246	Well, knowing Mr. Kwint...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u247	Exactly, Mr President, you know my positive nature; I am always very satisfied. This is a nice step in the right direction. I can tell the MBO spokesperson and the HBO spokesperson of the VVD that the VVD was one of the pioneers of abolishing the function mix in primary education, so if you would like to have lunch together, I think we will come a long way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u248	I'm not calling it for nothing right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u249	Then you guys go to lunch together. Thank you. I will now go to Mrs Westerveld on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u250	Mr. Chairman. How can we all say that our children deserve the best opportunities, but that education is always screwed up when there are cuts? How is it that everyone agrees that it is precisely that teacher that determines the quality of education and that we must be careful with our teachers, but that the teacher has always had to fight for his or her position over the years? And how is it that we have come as far as we are now, with overcrowded classes, overworked teachers and also less and less opportunities for vulnerable pupils? Sometimes something happens that no one saw coming, for example a natural disaster, a hurricane or an earthquake with enormous consequences. The shortage of teachers is also a disaster, and I sincerely believe that, but this is not a disaster that comes out of the sky. It is a disaster that was known years ago, which was also predicted years ago. Politics The Hague let it happen. By the way, this is not just about the past few years. Ignoring education is a persistent problem, which has been going on for almost 100 years now. For almost 100 years, politics has often been reacting wrongly and often too late. If we go back to, for example, 1935, then it was incorporated into the law that if a woman married, she was fired the day after. With the knowledge of today, everyone will probably find that. It is now undesirable and was then undesirable. But then it was also very impractical, because while women were being laid off massively, there was a huge shortage of teachers, rising to 3,000 teachers in 1947. It was only after a major demonstration that the law was amended in the late 1950s. So only 40 years after women were granted the right to vote, politics also allowed them to stay in education. But it was too late then. The shortage of labour in the labour market only increased. Wages in industry rose sharply over the following years and education was lagging behind. Only in the mid 1960s, again after massive protests from that education, did the career perspective get better and the salary increased. That was nice, but once again, politics followed the facts. The upgrading of the profession allowed more people to become teachers in the 1970s, but this didn't last long because the crisis broke out in the 1980s, with substantial cuts in education again. Teachers' salaries have now been reduced and, due to the predicted drop in apprenticeships, there has been enormous unemployment in primary and secondary education. Just graduated teachers didn't come to work anymore and the file got greedy. Back then, Minister of Education Deetman introduced a policy of discouragement for teacher training. That also had effect, because the interest fell, but in combination with an increase in students we were again with a huge teacher shortage in the late 1990s and again government policy was counterproductive. In 1992, the Committee on Future Teachership warned about the remaining salary and for a few moments there was investment, but shortly after, the Cabinet-Balkenende I put the teachers on a zero line for years and because everyone then predicted a new educational disaster, the report became Teacher in 2007! written under the direction of Alexander Rinnooy Kan. He said, "We don't have time to waste. Everyone also agreed on the need to invest in education. That happened then, but politics gave away money with one hand and took away money with the other hand, because the Cabinets of the Bakenende IV and Rutte I and II put the teaching staff back on the zero line for years. The impact of five years of zero was also that more than one and a half billion savings have been made on educational salaries and the gap with the market sector has also widened. Unfortunately, this is not a story with a happy ending, and the conclusion is also clear. Over the last 100 years, political mop policy has been in place in the field of education. And that is also necessary, because if we can predict something, that is the number of children born and also the number of children going to school four years later. We also know what we have to do to keep the profession attractive. There are enough investigations, enough facts, it is not a matter of fact, but it is a matter of warning that is constantly getting in the wind. Now we stand here and the shortage of teachers threatens to become even greater than Rinnooy Kan predicted. We are also dealing with a field of education which is becoming less and less trusting in politics. I think that is understandable after everything that has happened in recent years. That brings me to Friday's agreement. GroenLinks thinks it is positive that money will be added over the next two years. We think it is a good signal that this minister, in a coalition where there are not many people, has managed to get money on the table so that we can invest for the next two years. But if the field of education states that it is not enough and that there is a need for long-term security, we understand that too. Because if you choose a teacher's education now, you want to know what education will be like in four years' time. With occasional money, you can't make a structural wage increase. I hope today's profits will be that we all recognise this, that the lack of teachers is not necessarily the fault of one minister or one party, but that this is due to short-term thinking of directors and political parties, a political culture that looks at the next few years and not beyond, and economic calculation models that see education as a cost post rather than as an investment in our future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u251	I suggest you continue with your speech. So far we have had 40 minutes of speaking time, but only 80 minutes of interrupting. I want you to finish this first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u252	I wonder what's going on with my time. I have it now at 5.47, while I have a total of 14 for the first term. I think there's something wrong with my clock.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u253	It's possible, but it's gonna be fine, because it's well-maintained.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u254	Fine. I hope that we can see today that there is a task ahead that is broader than our own political gain, because that is of no use to anyone, especially the field of education, because there is now a great deal of unrest. The field of education only benefits politicians who put their shoulders on each other's shoulders. A good future for our children is not left and not right. That's what we all want. Let us therefore agree that in the coming years we are going to close the gap in wages, that we are going to increase salaries. That is why I have also written a motion in which this is pronounced and which I would like to table tomorrow. I have now understood from a number of parties, including Mr Van Meenen, that they can support this. Perhaps Mr Van Meenen will say that himself. This is an appeal to the whole of the political community to support each other. It is clear what needs to be done to solve the shortage of teachers, more appreciation, a higher salary, a low workload. But more needs to be done in the short term too, because we already need teachers. That is why we need to focus on side-intromers and people who have educational competence but do not work in education. On behalf of GroenLinks, since I am a Member of Parliament, I have been pressing for more commitment to that silent reserve.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u255	Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the opportunity. I agree with Mrs Westerveld. I confirm that I share her analysis of the course of the centuries of government policy. I've been through 40 years of it myself. I just want to say that I share her appeal and that I also want us, as a Chamber tomorrow, to say that the 460 million in the next elections will simply be structural, so that the people in education can count on it. I hope that this will be widely supported, at least by D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u256	That's obvious. Mr. Heerema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u257	I have another question. Mrs Westerveld gives a nice historical overview of politics and education, not beautiful in the sense of what is in it, but well expressed. There are also many reasons for the shortage of teachers in education. I don't hear Mrs Westerveld talking about that at all. I am talking about teachers who will be dismissed in July and rehired in September, and boards who will only give temporary contracts and then get rid of the teachers. There are also causes for the shortage of teachers. I ask Mrs Westerveld to what extent she takes that into account in her story. What is the role of education itself for the shortage of teachers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u258	I shall come back to that in my speech, but if Mr Heerema asks me to do so, he may not have been paying very close attention to the previous education debates. We have made several proposals to deal with this. I recently received a motion with Mr Van Meenen, which says: we really need to ensure that people are kept in education. So we asked the minister to make arrangements with the employers. I have made several proposals to make clear agreements on the financial reserves of school boards and partnerships. We have called a number of times for the side-inflow to be promoted. We've called in a number of times...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u259	And all those things Mr. Lordema should have known. Mr. Lordema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u260	I can bring out a pile of proposals here, but we have already said and done a great deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u261	Yes, Mr. Chairman, that's right. This story about history is rather more extensive than what Mrs Westerveld normally says, but I would have thought it so logical to include the role of the school boards in it, because it is not one-sided about politics and education, but also about everything in the world of education itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u262	We know a lot of those plans. Some plans we support and others we think differently. Mrs Westerveld mentioned the silent reserves. I would therefore like to ask her whether she wishes to add the consequence that we are trying to reduce, from competent teachers sitting at home, the excess unemployment benefit, which sometimes lasts ten years, and to turn it to pay, so that we can make education more attractive again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u263	I know that call from Mr Rog, he does it all the time. Of course, I can go along with that, but it is above all an agreement that employers and workers have to make at the collective bargaining table. I also really think it is up to them to talk further about what exactly is going on with all kinds of super-statutory benefits that education has. I would add that in recent years, of course, a great deal has been withdrawn from all kinds of schemes for teaching staff. So it's already been made more sober.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u264	Not much has been reversed. There is EUR 400 million involved in the super-statutory arrangements alone. So it's not the ordinary regulations, it's the super-statutory regulations. There's 30 million of them out of control. That is a great deal of money, in primary and secondary education alone. We are talking about 350 million in unemployment benefits and EUR 180 million in super-statutory schemes, which we can simply use. I think it is a bit of a formalistic approach to say: that is what the social partners are about. We also have a responsibility to ensure that money for education reaches the classroom. That is also what Mrs Westerveld thinks when it comes to driving those who have it on the shelf, with the CDA. We want to get rid of that, too. But I would also ask her to join us and say that we really need to reverse this kind of arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u265	If we look at why people choose a particular profession, then the salary is partly important, but also all kinds of other schemes that can make the work attractive. or the post-work period. That is why I think we should be careful: we can very easily reduce all kinds of super-statutory regulations altogether. I think that is primarily something that lies on the negotiating table of the collective bargaining partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u266	Please continue, Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u267	I would have stuck to the fact that something has to happen now, because we now need teachers at the silent reserve. I've made a point of that before. According to the latest figures we know, there are as many as 83 000 people with educational qualifications who do not work in education. Some people want to go back, but still have doubts, for example because of the many contracts that education has. We would like to ask whether the Minister can think about a return guarantee, so that people who are now going to education can get a return guarantee in their current job, as politicians can also get political leave. Could the Minister perhaps arrange this for officials, but is he also prepared to table with employers to indicate: this is a common problem? Would he like to see whether there is also an agreement with large employers that there will be a return guarantee if people decide to take a decision with authority, I would add that they want to work in education? Could the Minister personally approach the silent reserve? I've asked that before in debates. VWS also does that and approaches nurses to do so. Can we do that in education, too? The side-inflow control is a great success when you look at the number of people pouring in. Last Saturday, I read in the magazine that their number has tripled since 2017, but what about the drop-out? Because that's what I hear alarming stories about. Can the Minister structurally raise the subsidy pot? Is he also willing to look at the amount of the grant? We now notice that more time is needed for the raid and guidance of new teachers. There's a lot of outage there too. Is it a solution to raise that subsidy a little bit so that there is more money for guidance? In addition, more needs to be done. That is what the colleagues rightly pointed out. It is scandalous, for example, that the number of temporary contracts in teaching for teachers and also for educational supporters has increased in recent years. I do not think it can be explained that, at a time of major shortages, teachers are fired before the summer holidays and then can apply again after the summer holidays. It just can't be explained. Why do I still hear that teaching agencies take teachers away from schools and then offer them back at the double rate? You can't explain that either. How can it be that during the crisis years and after, the bank account of many school boards has grown significantly, while teachers have been put aside and more and more people working in education have been given temporary contracts? How can it be that partnerships have more and more money on the table? We've known the system of appropriate education for five years. The number of homeowners is growing, but the financial reserves of partnerships are also growing. That's inexplicable. Not to me, not to colleagues in this Chamber, and certainly not to parents and children who are not receiving adequate education or at home. These combined reserves amount to EUR 260 million. Is the Minister going to work on the enormous administrative pressure? I used to sketch the story of a child who needed a custom chair. This took a few months after efforts by the school, the orthopedagogue, the municipality, the UVW and not to mention the parents and the teacher. In the meantime, this journey has become more expensive than the chair itself. We also need to get rid of this kind of thing in education, because it is frustrating. Moreover, the problem also moves to youth care. As spokesperson for youth services, I am confronted every week with very poignant stories of young people who need help, who are not getting enough attention and who are on waiting lists, so that their problems are getting bigger and bigger. It's the other way around. We see that schools are also faced with problems in youth care, for example after parental separation or child abuse. Can the Minister do more to support schools and teachers? Mr. Chairman. I'm also here today as a spokesperson for higher education. I see that higher education is systematically the victim of short-term policy. For example, the cabinet intends to redistribute money within universities. Dozens of millions are moved from alpha and gamma faculties and medical faculties to beta and engineering. This removes money from training courses where student numbers are the highest rate and from training courses where people are now falling over due to the workload. Higher education is no different from basic education. Almost two thirds of the scientific staff already indicate that they can no longer handle it psychologically and physically. I would like to ask the Minister what long-term effects this redistribution has. What did the Minister mean by his own classification that this redistribution quick and dirty has been carried out? Is the Minister willing to look together with the House of Representatives at proposals to improve it? I told you, I see the problems in my other child care portfolio. There we also see the importance of people who have completed an alpha, gamma or medical study. They should also help young people with complex care questions. We just can't do that without well-educated caregivers. I would also like to ask the Minister whether she agrees with GroenLinks that alpha-studies, gamma-studies and medical studies are of enormous added value, especially for these kinds of issues. Is the Minister prepared to take an advance on the announced investment fund to make money available for alpha, gamma and medical sciences? We live in a time of enormous wealth. The stock exchange, the AEX index, ended yesterday at the highest closing position in eighteen years. The economy is in full swing. There is a budget surplus of 11 billion. The government can borrow for free and rich people are getting richer. However, my group was uncomfortablely surprised by the increase in student interest rates. Fortunately, this one is still out of business because of political opposition and because of massive opposition from the field, but it has found its way into the OCW budget of the year 2026. From that year on, the estimated revenue from this measure will be entered as a technical cut. That is strange, because the proceeds of the increase in student interest would never have benefited education, but now that the increase is not going to happen, the estimated revenues will be charged to the education budget. We don't think we can explain that. That is why, for a change, I do not have a question for the Minister, but I do have a question for the members of the Chamber. That question is: are you, are we, willing to immediately delete this future mission in the next formation? 2026 seems a long way away, but if I have learned anything from education policy and if I have any evidence from my input, it is that we have to deal with the long term. Mr. Chairman. I have one more point. This is about involving young people in general, because it is a problem throughout society that there is much too much talk about young people and far too little talk about young people. We also see this in support of youth organisations. We expect a lot of that, but on the other hand they have to do it with a tip. In addition, it is striking that a young person should be registered for a higher education institution in order to qualify for a national scholarship. I would like to ask the Minister whether it is an idea to broaden it so that many more young people can become active. Would the Minister like to get in touch with the various youth organisations on facilitation and reimbursement, and on whether this is enough for the much work we expect them to do? Mr President, I should like to close. My plea is clear: let's see education together again as an investment; let's invest in the long term, so let's not just look at the next few years. My group believes that our teachers and our children deserve long-term clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u268	Thank you. Mr. Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u269	I'm happy with that last call, because it's in line with what I asked. I've also seen the investigation of the NJR. A lot of people don't do board work anymore. But it's not just about administrative work. Of course, it's wider than that. What else could we do? Are there any proposals from GroenLinks to ensure that the rules are clear and the public awareness is increased?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u270	Of course, you have different funds. At the universities and colleges you have the Profiling Fund, which Mr Wiersma mentioned in his contribution. You also have a number of government grants and allowances given nationally, for example, from the Ministry of Education. I believe that more can happen in both areas. There are huge differences between fees and the facilitation of students in colleges and universities. So, as far as I am concerned, we are either going to have more clarity or we are going to let young people talk much more about exactly how these fees are being distributed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u271	I get the call to harmonise that and to get more equality in the standards you receive when you get a scholarship, so it doesn't matter if you do boardwork at one college or volunteering at another college. I get that call. At the same time, I have also seen that, in addition to the Profiling Fund, there is a whole range of support from other organisations. I am curious to hear the Minister's answer to the question of how we can raise awareness of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u272	Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u273	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. I now give the floor to Mr Van den Berge on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u274	Mr. Chairman. I see ten minutes, but I think I passed on seven minutes. Or do we have time? No. Okay, thank you. I don't want to get confused. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the seventeenth century, the Russian czar Peter the Great came to the Netherlands to learn how to build ships. At that time you had to be in the Netherlands if you wanted to learn a craft. Whether it was building ships, drawing veins or choosing: The Netherlands was the place to be. Now I will be the last to exalt everything that happened in the seventeenth century in the Netherlands, but respect and appreciation for the craft is something we should have kept together. Because how different it is now. Until recently, we called people who were trained professionally in the Netherlands "participants at the MBO." GroenLinks welcomes the fact that we are now talking about "students." This is an important step forward in aligning the legal status of MBO students and students in higher education. But that doesn't get us there yet. I have said it before in debates on MBO and education: it is thanks to the MBO-educated that we are here today, thanks to the bikemaker, the mechanic and the train mechanic. Without them, we would not have been here today and we would not have been able to have this debate. I often hear from MBO students and teachers that they miss that appreciation. We talk so often about other sectors of education, which is quite understandable given the major problems there and the current situation, but we do not talk about the MBO enough. My group would like to change that, and I would like to express the appreciation of the practically trained people on behalf of GroenLinks here. When I look at the budget, I notice one thing: secondary vocational education is deteriorating. We have already discussed this with the Minister in the legislative consultation on budgetary research. It has partly to do with the decreasing number of students in the MBO, but it also has to do with cuts. Deficiencies in the DUO, for example, are reported on the MBO. I would like to ask the Minister why she chose to do so. Why was it chosen to report budget deficits on the MBO? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. It is a good thing that we will soon be discussing a legislative proposal that will further strengthen the legal status of MBO students. I've been talking about that for a while. We will therefore formally lay down in the law that we will talk about "students." GroenLinks believes that this is a positive proposal. We also think it is positive that this law will provide an MBO student fund from which, for example, MBO students who become pregnant or students with chronic illness can be supported. We do wonder whether the amount of EUR 10 million currently earmarked for the MBO student fund is sufficient to meet the great ambitions set out in the legislative proposal. My colleague Westerveld has been talking about it for a while. We would like to extend control. This should not only apply to higher education, but should also be much more firmly anchored in the MBO. That does require that MBO students who join a student council, for example, receive good financial support in order to be able to do so full-time. That ambition is in the bill, but I wonder if the reserved funds are sufficient. We are going to talk about the bill, but I would also like to hear a response from the Minister in this debate. If the answer to that question is "no," then we will have to see if we can somehow make money available for it. Mr. Chairman. Appreciation is also about the perspective of the future that we offer as politics to the practically educated in the Netherlands. If I'm being very honest, I'm not getting very optimistic about the perspective we're offering. For example, when I look at the gap in the public sector, when I look at how we deal with police officers, nurses and other practically trained people in the public sector, that leaves a lot to be desired. Salaries are low, the workload is high and politics is rather fickle. Then there are cuts, then there is investment. Providing a future perspective requires making choices. While the economy is attracting, we can see that income disparities are on the increase. It is not the practically trained who benefit from economic growth, at least in many cases not. I would also like a response from the Minister on this point. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll go to internship discrimination. In every debate on secondary vocational education, I bring up internship discrimination. Not because I don't think the minister has this on the retina, or that she wouldn't think it's important enough. I see that the Minister is addressing this problem and I know that many colleagues in the Chamber want to address it. I do bring it up every time, because I think the problem is so big and so important. So far, all the encouragements I have given in debates have helped and I see that this is what the Minister is proposing, and today I would also like to make another proposal to strengthen it. I would like to ask the Minister whether it would be an idea to set up diversity coaches at MBO institutions: accessible people who can help students who feel discriminated against, but who can also help young people who find it difficult to find an internship, for example, to write an application letter and find that internship place. I'd like a response from the Minister. Does she want to take a serious look at that? Mr. Chairman. Then I'm going from secondary vocational education to science policy. I see there's gonna be an interruption. Will you do that now, because I'm moving on to science policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u275	Yeah, that's good. Is it about the previous one? Yes. A brief interruption by Mr Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u276	Yes, my interruption is about the MBO and, in fact, about citizenship education. This morning, the inspection announced that it would carry out additional research on this subject, also in connection with discussions on Islamic education and things learned there that could not actually stand the light of day. I made a plea to include the citizenship component in the success-bag scheme and to take it really seriously, in such a way that it is essential for your diploma. Can GroenLinks support that proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u277	I should look very closely at the proposal, but my first reaction is not necessarily positive. I think we should be very careful when imposing all kinds of additional obligations on MBO institutions. We really should look at what is at the heart of good practice-oriented training. What does it take to learn a course so that you can perform that course properly? So my initial reaction is not so positive, but I am naturally willing to take a serious look at the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u278	This was the proposal, so you say no. There is a lot to do. Citizenship is important. We expect a lot of it, too. We also want it to contain the right content. There's a lot of discussion about that. I think you can really put it on the agenda when you say it's so important to us that we want to examine what we give people before they enter society and make them essential to the diploma. If you say you want to think about that, I understand. I would then find it interesting to ask whether the inspection, when it looks at citizenship education, can also look at whether taking it into account in the success-bag scheme can help to improve citizenship education. I hope you will ask that question with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u279	I always look very seriously at proposals from colleagues and certainly at investigations of the inspection. I would like to say in advance that I think we should be very reluctant to impose all kinds of obligations on MBO institutions, as we have done with the calculation test, for example. Institutions have trained a lot of mathematicians, but now we say again: perhaps we should not do the mathematics test. We must make a very conscious choice about what obligations we want to impose on institutions and what is not and what is really necessary to learn a good profession. That is my answer to Mr Wiersma's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u280	Those are striking words: we must be very careful when imposing all kinds of things that do not necessarily contribute to the learning of a good profession. I was wondering how I should see the idea of a diversity coach. What kind of a figure is that? That is what GroenLinks wants to impose on MBO schools. This should be accessible, but does that mean a vote of no confidence towards the confidential persons and the complaints committee?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u281	Certainly not that last one. What we want to do with that diversity coach is really something quite different than make a test mandatory. Of course, the proposal for that diversity coach is not about the curriculum or what we would like to impose on tests, but about how you help and guide students. We often hear of students with bicultural backgrounds, with a non-Western surname that they feel discriminated against, but they are reluctant to go to a trusted person or a teacher because they are afraid of becoming victimised or being printed, or because they cannot, for example, make it hard to discriminate. In many cases, that is difficult to make. The diversity coach will be an easy access point for people who feel discriminated against or who, for other reasons, have difficulty finding an internship, so that they can get help with it. I asked the Minister to take a serious look at this and investigate it. I didn't say we're gonna make arrangements today to make it compulsory everywhere. I would find that unwise, but I think it is an interesting idea that we should look seriously at, because you can probably solve a number of very big problems, including internship discrimination, or because you can at least contribute to the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u282	But then you're only making the mess of all kinds of arrangements for the MBO even bigger? Isn't it smarter to look at the existing structures and the question of whether we can possibly strengthen them? Then I think you'll really get to the confidant and possibly a complaints committee. It's already legal. Isn't that smarter than putting another top on top? That doesn't help, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u283	We don't put a top on it. We've looked very seriously at everything that's already there. We also appreciate all the initiatives that exist, such as the internship discrimination hotline at the SBB, but we do see that they are often difficult to access for students who feel discriminated against. They're high-threshold. What we are doing is not a top on top. We try to create a position, a person close to the student and to whom the student can contact to ask for and get the help he or she needs. That's what we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u284	Mr Bishop, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u285	I appreciate the intention, but what this proposal results in is an increase in the mess of all kinds of rules a school is burdened with. GroenLinks shouldn't want that either. I would look for it in a different direction, but that is obviously up to GroenLinks himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u286	I don't even know how this would increase the mess of rules. We say: see if you can create such a person, just a person who can help the students find their way into the mess of rules, hotlines and legislation. That's what we're trying to do to make it easier for the students. I ask the Minister to take a serious look at that and do an investigation. I honestly don't understand the objections very well in advance. Anyway, that's what colleagues are about, of course. Mr. Chairman. Now I'm going to move on to science policy. I have already mentioned it in an interrupting debate with Mr Wiersma. GroenLinks is concerned that we are increasingly hearing from scientists that they are going to seek their salvation abroad, because they feel that they do not have the space in the Netherlands to do free and fundamental research and to follow their curiosity. Even budgets that we might label here as 'free' and 'unbound', such as the budget in the Dutch science agenda, are still linked to fairly strict formats. Scientists say: give us more room for our own curiosity, for our own talent and to follow our own forces. How does the Minister look at those noises? Does she see opportunities to offer more space for scientists to fill that out within existing research budgets, as in the Dutch science agenda? Does it also see opportunities for the future, for example with the forthcoming investment fund, to make more money available for fundamental, free research? Mr President, I will conclude. If we want to stay at the forefront internationally, we need to regain appreciation for the craft industry, for professionals and for our leading scientists. Without them, no thriving economy, no strong public sector, no innovative knowledge-based economy. I hope that we can take this step forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u287	Thank you, Mr. Van den Berge. I now give the floor to Mr Rog on behalf of the CDA. Or not, because there is a need for a very short two-minute suspension. I'm sorry, Mr. Rog. We'll continue after two minutes. There's a lot of drinking out there in box-K!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u288	I give the floor to Mr Rog on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u289	Mr President, allow me to begin by saying that I am extremely shocked that Mr Beertema cannot be here. On behalf of my group, I wish him well and to wish him and his wife every success. Madam President. Our education is as good as the teacher in the classroom. I would therefore like to begin by complimenting all those teachers who work every day and have so much value for our children. It is therefore only right that this cabinet should invest in reducing the workload and increasing teachers' salaries. This will make teachership more attractive again and our children will also receive good education in the future. In order to reduce the workload, 330 million were already structurally available. School leaders and teacher teams decide how to use these resources at school level. That is highly appreciated and that money will be increased further. There was already EUR 270 million to increase teachers' salaries in primary education and thus to reduce the difference with teachers in secondary education at least one step. In addition to these investments, EUR 460 million will now be made available on an occasional basis. This money is extremely useful, for example for the supervision of side-intromers and the increase in the pressure equipment. Ultimately, these workloads will be structurally increased to EUR 430 million, every year. Every year, the decision on which that money is spent is for the school teams, the teachers and the school leaders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u290	Mrs Van den Hul, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u291	Yes, very briefly. I just asked the same question to the VVD. He was very clear about this: 'We do not now choose structural'. The Minister is clear about this: "There is no money now." So I am asking the same question now to the CDA: what is needed to talk about now, not tomorrow or next year, but about structural money now to tackle the problems in education, including the shortage of teachers and the pay gap?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u292	This cabinet has invested EUR 1.9 billion in education and now adds EUR 460 million. I'm not gonna make any promises about the future right now. I saw the Labour Party make a structural promise in 2012 in the election programme. She came to power with Mrs Bussemaker as Minister of Education. 600 million would be added structuralally. It was €0. This cabinet invests structuralally in education, a lot of money, and now additional money comes occasionally. I'm so proud of that, and that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u293	Mr Rog would also like to look back. That is what I am doing, because, as I have just said, it was a crisis in the previous cabinet period. At that time, there were no billions of budget surpluses in the bank. A correction to a previous exchange on that zero line: that zero line was properly resolved under the previous cabinet. In 2015, teachers were removed from that zero line. That is the point, but Mr Rog also sees a full public gallery here. We have seen the footage from Amsterdam and there are tens of thousands of teachers on their feet all over the country. They don't just go out on the street. They don't go out on the street because they think it's okay. They don't go out for fun. They don't stand here on strike because they like it here. They are on strike because it is not occasional but structural money that is needed. So, yes, a step has been taken. That's very important. Everyone agrees on this, but my question is once again: what is needed for the CDA to look at structural rather than occasional solutions to the major problems that exist?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u294	It is true: the shortage of teachers has long been known. In 2008 I was at a conference that indicated that 100,000 teachers would be needed in 2015. Eventually that turned out to be less, but we do have a teacher shortage now, and we've seen that coming for years. Over the last 12 years, we have had eight years with a Labour Minister of Education Party. Why wasn't anything done then? This cabinet is taking steps. This cabinet is structurally engaged in addressing the teacher shortage. In addition to these structural additional investments, in addition to the occasional investments, I will come up with concrete ideas in my contribution to the budget of Education to further reduce this shortage of teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u295	Finally, Mrs Van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u296	We have made a number of very concrete suggestions, not just now. We have done so regularly from this corner of the Chamber. There is now a number of wonderful Labour Party amendments. I would like to invite Mr Rog to stand under it if education really is as warm to his heart as he says it is. The stands are full here for a reason, I say again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u297	That's true, and I recognize it. There has been a standstill for years, and the last structural thing the Labour Party has done is to saddle this cabinet with a deficit of EUR 0.5 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u298	These historical reflections have been warmly welcomed by Mr Rog, but I would like to talk about the future. Yeah, there's gonna be money, sure. But we see in the forecasts that the teacher shortage will continue to increase in the coming years. All that party politics chops people back in the Acts of ten years ago. The question is now the next one. At the moment when you see a major social problem, which underlines and sees that this problem is getting bigger despite the extra investment of the cabinet, we cannot stop here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u299	No, and that is why we are here together to deal with the budget and come up with concrete ideas. I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u300	I've seen it, including a very good proposal on teaching assistants. That even looked a little familiar to me. But if we see, in the great extent of the shortage of teachers, that it is only going to get worse, we will not be able to do just a proposal for a few teaching assistants, however important. Then we must also have the courage to look at these long-term solutions and, for example, at removing the pay gap.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u301	That is also true, and that is why the cabinet has taken a first step. In my term, I will come forward with a number of proposals and measures to make a contribution to this. Mr President, if I may, because I would like to have a moment to put this down?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u302	Yeah, because you're just getting started. Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u303	I have a very short question. Is Mr Rog prepared to take the amount referred to by the AOb, EUR 4 billion, as the starting point for discussing this structural contribution? Shall we take that as a starting point and then see where we come from?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u304	No, I don't think that's a good idea. Moreover, I have reason to believe that the AOb has previously asked for 430 million in structural terms and that the cabinet is investing 460 million euros. That's an occasional amount, but 430 was requested.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u305	Mrs Westerveld, you've hardly interrupted. Women are sometimes short and powerful, let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u306	I'm going to try to ask a short question with this encouragement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u307	Men too, some of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u308	Mr. Chairman. I said in my speech: let us now put our hands together, let us argue together for that structural money and ensure that there is a little more clarity for the teachers who are now on strike and sitting here in the gallery. I would like to ask Mr Rog how he looks at that. Can he not only say something for the next two years, but also indicate what the plans of the CDA are now if we look at the longer term, because that is urgently needed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u309	The rest of my input is about the plans for next year. I've got 15 minutes. If you want to tempt me to say something about the CDA's election program, the answer is no. You really must wait for the election. I'm not gonna make false promises. We have seen too many times in this house that parties indicated that they would make certain investments and that they did not, in the end, deliver them. I'm not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u310	Mrs. Westerveld? For Mr Rog goes even further, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u311	There's a difference between your intentions, what you write down in your election program, which lets you pass on and where you show what choices you make, and making false promises. There's a really big difference. I would like to ask Mr Rog whether he intends at least to do his utmost and perhaps to give a ruling on what will be the use of the CDA election programme. What choices does the CDA want to make?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u312	I think I turned that in, right? I'm not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u313	So you're not gonna do that. I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u314	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. An important and widely cherished wish from the agreement that this minister concluded with sectoral councils and trade unions was, of course, an otherwise structural measure for further special education. My group is very pleased with that. Mr. Chairman. More money for education only makes no sense if it doesn't actually end up in the classroom. It is therefore a thorn in my eye that the reserve positions of school boards and partnerships continue to increase. Tax money is on the shelf, while it should be spent on teachers and educational resources for our children. Can the Minister promise that there will be clear and enforceable standards for the maximum reserve position of schools and partnerships by next school year? While teachers have recently reached 2,000 teachers, 8,000 qualified teachers are currently at home unemployed. Just let that work on you: we have 8,000 qualified teachers who are not in front of the classroom, without work, with benefits, and 2,000 vacancies. In addition to the ordinary unemployment benefit, these teachers receive a "additional super-statutory benefit," as it is called. That can take six to ten years and they are also considerably higher than the regular WW benefit in the Netherlands. In total, p.o. and for primary and secondary education, as much as 350 million a year are paid to this type of benefit. Social partners now choose not to spend EUR 180 million on salary for active teachers, but on super-statutory benefits. In Het Financieele Dagblad even the AOb no longer mentions these benefits of this time. But they're still here. What are we gonna do about it? In the coalition agreement, we agreed that there would be a link: to improve the salary position, but also to normalise those super-statutory benefits. Why did the Minister not take new steps in this agreement? Does he see the role for himself to break the deadlock in the polder and to see whether it is possible to work towards a function house in the foundational education system, which can also involve structural money from the performance box and the super-statutory benefits? These are concrete proposals within the Education budget, which allow us to improve the salary position of teachers on a structural basis. Mr. Chairman. Many teachers experience a high workload. Partly this is due to long holidays, which gives the relatively high number of hours of lessons in a very concentrated time. The CDA therefore awaits with regret the elaboration of the motion by Mr Heerema and Mr Van Meenen and myself. This will enable teachers to spread the work better over the year and give schools the opportunity to fill in part of the teaching time during the summer months. In addition, CDA and D66 would like to ask the Education Council to carry out a study on the teaching time for pupils and teachers in basic education. In order to seduce more young people and side-instromers to the teaching system, we will have to do more than relieve the workload and improve the salary. Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u315	No!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u316	Oh. I can only see him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u317	Me too. I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u318	Yes. I was just as comfortable in it. Mr. Chairman. It's all hands on deck. In 2016 I advocated the development of the TEACHnasium, to enthuse havists for the pabo. That was an initiative of the Christian College of Ede. This has now been successfully rolled out, but I think now is the time for broadening. No HAVO profile fully prepares students for the entire pabo-curriculum or input keys. The CDA therefore wants to launch a summer offensive to better prepare havists and eliminate any backlogs. Then they can start well prepared for the pabo. In addition, the CDA, together with the coalition partners, comes with an amendment to invest in the flow of MBO-educated teaching assistants to the pabo. That's what I've been advocating for a long time. We must not reduce the pabo's demands, but we must remove the thresholds. We also want the cabinet to work on the pabo-specializations "younger child" and "older child." That's something I've been calling out for years. In this way, future kindergarten teachers can be better prepared for the guidance and development of the young child, while students who opt for the older schoolchild will no longer drop out of compulsory pre-school education. As a result, the high percentage of male students who are now leaving the pabo prematurely will undoubtedly decrease. Hopefully, more men will choose the teachership. I have prepared a motion on this, together with my colleague from the VVD. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is the champion staying. Sitting around often means that you have to do everything you don't control in exactly the same way. Anything you do control, you have to repeat for punishment. This is bad for the motivation of students and bad for the learning environment in the classroom. Thanks to the summer schools, many thousands of students, who were too inadequate for one or a few subjects, have passed away since 2013. In a short space of time, with other teachers, they've eliminated the delays. The CDA wants to go through with these summer schools and is therefore tabling an amendment to prevent the money now earmarked for them from disappearing into the lump sum. The creation of the initiative law of the Party of Labour, Christian Union and CDA to fund religious and humanistic education in public education does not seem to be in line with the intention of the proposers as far as pay is concerned. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he acknowledges that the teachers are not in fact fully compensated in accordance with the collective agreement for the p.o. I am considering tabling an amendment on this point. Mr. Chairman. This was my contribution to the foundational education. I have the honour, on behalf of my colleague, Harry van der Molen, to deal with the issue of higher education. Mrs. Kuik will take care of the MBO later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u319	A brief question from Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u320	As may be known, I've been working for years to see how we can get the number of teachers' hours down. In doing so, I constantly encounter the CDA. We have now found each other, because we are now so far away that the CDA also dares to ask the Education Council to find something. May I ask Mr Rog, I already know the answer, but I would like everyone to hear whether this means...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u321	Did you agree to this interruption among yourselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u322	No, absolutely not! I think it's a bit annoying, too, to be honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u323	I'm totally gonna surprise him with this. Really, Mr. Chairman. Now you're making it a long story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u324	No, it's not that bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u325	I was just finishing up. Is it now true that the CDA sees that it could help, even in reducing the workload, to give teachers less hours of teaching in the Netherlands? Internationally compared, they teach a lot of hours. Does the CDA agree and is the group open to a movement in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u326	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u327	It is true that Mr Van Meenen has often found me on his way, because I thought that he was rather radical and perhaps not always fully detailed plans...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u328	Mr Van Meenen radically? That's Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u329	...screwed. I do see that this is a serious point and also a point made by Mr Van Meenen that teachers in the Netherlands teach relatively much. They do. Especially in the p.o., but also in the vo. I think it's important that we take a good look at that. I find it shocking how many teachers have to deal with a burnout. I think that's serious. I think it's our expensive duty to see if we can have a role in that. That's why I'm saying, let's take a look at it. What is good for the children, what is good for the teachers, so that the work can be done in a good way? That is different from what Mr Van Meenen says, namely that five hours must be taken off immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u330	I suggest you move on. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u331	Mr. Chairman. The loan system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u332	Mr Van Meenen has a lot of trouble...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u333	A point of order: you look like a teacher.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u334	I am.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u335	That is a compliment, but in this case I object.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u336	You made your point, thank you very much. Proceed, Mr. Rog.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u337	I think I'll talk to Mr Van Meenen again, you know. I'm sure you'll be fine. The CDA's position on the loan system has been known for years: we are against it. I am delighted that there are more and more parties who understand that we need to get rid of this. Over the past year, the CDA has been working to find solutions for students who are the victims of this loan system. For example, it has tabled several motions, so that vouchers could be more beneficial to the victims of the loan system. However, the Minister has always found all kinds of bears on the road when it comes to DUO and cash slides. There are all practical objections. That's why we figured it might all have to be a lot simpler. That can actually be very easy. We have invented with GroenLinks and the Socialist Party that former students who would be entitled to these study vouchers after five years of study can be given two options, namely to pay off €2,000 on your student debt, or simply to pay the amount. This is advantageous for the Minister, because there is no need for a cash drawer. It always turned out to be such a complicated obstacle. And DUO no longer needs to worry about building and developing a complicated system of vouchers. DUO can concentrate on the problems that already exist. The former students have a choice, for example, to pay extra. With this, they increase the possibility of taking out a mortgage, for example. The motion will therefore be tabled together with the SP and GroenLinks. Mr. Chairman. The CDA is also very concerned about the sharp decline in influx into Dutch programmes. It is a bad thing for our language, language management and culture. The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau recently indicated that Dutch is actually what connects us Dutch most to our country. This means that we have a responsibility to continue investing in this. In addition, the decline in the influx into teacher training can lead to the shortage of Dutch teachers in the future. The Academy and the National Platform for Languages have issued an opinion for the universities. The Minister does not intend to respond until the first quarter of 2020. That is too late as far as we are concerned. The problem has been known for over a year. Soon we'll be two years before we start working on a solution. Resources must now be made available so that implementation can at least be started. That is why we have tabled an amendment on this point. In addition, we have also asked from the beginning for an analysis and a plan for the first and second degree teacher training courses in Dutch of the colleges. We like to hear when we can expect this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u338	Let's get back to the loan system. Very well that is thought out how we are the current students, who are more or less the victims of that system...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u339	Maledied.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u340	Those are words you're adding, but I'm not gonna take care of them. So it's very good that we're thinking about how we can accommodate these students. At the same time, of course, it is the question of how we can meet future students, so that they do not get caught up in that same mess and that weird system. To that end, Mr Westerveld and I have tabled an amendment. I am curious to hear the CDA's response to that amendment. In the meantime there is also a very good coverage indicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u341	I'd like to take a good look at that. I have the impression that there is still a dispute over the qualification that Mr Bishop gives to cover. So let's do that. The starting point sounds very friendly, but I think we should have a strong debate on whether the coverage is sound.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u342	Good. I think that's gonna happen, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u343	I get a warm heart from the beautiful plea for alphascience Dutch that I heard from the CDA. I think that attention is very good. I am very curious about the amendment, but I would actually like to go wider. In view of the societal challenges that we now have in the Netherlands, for example the importance of taking the lead here with artificial intelligence, I think we need linguistic science in a broad sense. Does Mr. Rog share that with us? If we build an investment fund, shouldn't we ensure that not only broad science, but also linguistic sciences, for example, are given the right place in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u344	The CDA is a strong supporter of our languages, including the small languages, which are also part of our humanities, so I give Mr Paternotte. When I was allowed to be a spokesperson on this subject, I often asked questions about this. I didn't need squatters at the Virgin House for that. That's what we suggested before that door was smashed in. It is a very important point for us, but I do not know where Mr Paternotte is going now; he will probably come up with the plea that we should reverse the ideas of the Van Rijn Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u345	The plea that I might come up with is about broad science. We face many societal challenges and we need broad science. Climate change is also about behavioral scientists and planners. Artificial intelligence is also about the language scientists. My question is whether Mr Rog, as a former spokesperson for higher education, who is now back in his old role, still recognises this and wants to do his best to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u346	I'm sure I recognize it. It's very important. At the same time, I say to Mr Paternotte that we also have a major challenge in other areas, such as science. I have been concerned about this in the past, as Mr Paternotte knows. At that time, I asked how we could ensure that we were able to seduce enough students.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u347	Finally, Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u348	I think it is good to note that you are talking about 'also', because I think that is indeed the point. You need all the science areas together. I was hoping to get that recognition from you, and I got it. I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u349	I'm going to use the term "crackers at the Virgin House." In recent years, higher education has had a lot of problems. Many students and teachers are concerned about this, among others teachers and students who practice alphascience. We all know that the cabinet is proposing to cut back on this, so I really think that we are failing the active students and teachers with this qualification. That's what my question is about. We know that the shifts proposed by the cabinet are likely to lead to a whole range of redundancies in higher education. That is what the universities themselves say: if we implement these measures, we have to fire a lot of people, while there are a lot of students coming in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u350	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u351	My question to Mr Rog is whether he is prepared to look with us, with other parties, for a solution to this, so that there is no need for teachers to be dismissed next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u352	Mrs Westerveld does bring in a lot of things. We had a huge assignment for the science and technology faculties. We have taken a step in that direction. I'm so happy about that. I don't think there's a cut right now. That is a persistent frame, which is always used, but that is simply not the issue. The CDA chooses not only to bring more, more, more students here, but to look critically at this and train enough people, including in those important science sciences. At the same time, we also place this responsibility on the universities themselves, where the choices are made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u353	There is indeed a discount on the price adjustment. The tuition fee is also halved. That's fine. This is a fine measure for students, but it is not necessarily positive for educational institutions. But let's not make it too technical. Is Mr Rog prepared to look with us to see if we can do anything about the investment fund? Because that is of course also about the position of the Netherlands as a knowledge country. And can we ask the cabinet to look at what is going to happen in that investment fund, in order to ensure a soft landing in education, so that we really can provide security to teachers in the short term?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u354	I'm just gonna be clear, the same clarity as I just gave, that we're not gonna make promises on the front that we might have to come back to. As far as future investment is concerned, this is also an investment fund. There's going to be an investment fund. That's a choice this cabinet makes. I think there's broad support for that in the Chamber. We're gonna decide how and what we're gonna use it for later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u355	Finally, very briefly, Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u356	I'm not asking for a promise here. I ask: could we ask the Cabinet to look into this? Is Mr Rog prepared to make this appeal to the cabinet with us and with other parties?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u357	You could have done that in your own contribution. That's up to the cabinet; they're listening anyway, so they'll probably take it with them. Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u358	Not about the mysterious fund, which we will see when it comes to, but about the Van Rijn shift that Mrs Westerveld also referred to. Of course, it has direct consequences in the workplace. This is not just a policy shift, such as: "it is important if there is something for technology." This simply means something concrete in faculties, on courses: subjects that disappear, teachers that are going to disappear. This simply has immediate consequences. Does Mr. Rog see that policy choices actually have direct consequences in the workplace?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u359	The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u360	Then there's my follow-up question. He just said that then it is up to the institutions to see what they are doing with it. But a university such as Tilburg, or Maastricht, which, for example, do not have a real technical branch, do not really have a choice. They're just facing a discount. Should we not do something about this in order to cover the hardest consequences of this for a long time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u361	Sometimes you have to make choices in politics, too. We made those choices. Then Mr Futselaar can say that any negative consequence must be covered again from a fictitious money tree. I can't do it any other way, Mr. Futselaar. I must say that there are indeed consequences. There are no cuts at the moment. That's good news. A choice is being made with Van Rijn to do something that I think we all think is important, and what do I think is important to the Socialist Party? But indeed, making choices also hurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u362	Finally, Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u363	Rounding up. It is an incredibly political policy statement: no cuts are being made. If I take the money away from primary school tomorrow and I do it in secondary school, I can say: look, I haven't cut anything. But that feels like a huge cut in primary education, and rightly so. The same goes for the Van Rijn shift. Of course, it is a cut in practice for a lot of people. I'm trying to make it clear that this has direct consequences in the workplace. We shouldn't run away from that and not pretend it's just a cosmetic operation. This is gonna cost people a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u364	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u365	Mr. Chairman. It won't be surprising that we don't have a big...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u366	Something fell from the bleachers. Mr. Hiddema's inside. A phone fell down. Please continue. It's very domestic here sometimes, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u367	Luckily, it's just a phone. Mr. Chairman. It won't be a surprise. The CDA is not enthusiastic about the englishment that has plagued our higher education in recent years. This poses all kinds of problems in the long term. Settings are losing touch with their environment. Dutch-speaking students do not get the opportunities to study that they used to have, and that is not good. The estimates cannot be more accurate, and yet, thanks to international students, we have been wrong for many years. Again this year. 10% more students from abroad appear to be pouring into our universities. This increase puts pressure on the quality of education and our facilities. A recent report outlines that a further increase in international students will lead to the displacement of other national spending, with the need to raise taxes or to lower funding per student. We shouldn't want that. The CDA won't let it get that far. It's time we started steering more on the influx of international students. For sectors where there are shortages in the labour market, there should be more room, but less for those where there are not. It is also important to focus on how we can retain these students for the labour market in the Netherlands. The final point of my contribution is the Einstein telescope. We would like to know from the Minister how she intends to proceed with this and what her commitment will be. Are we going to give a firm commitment together with Belgium and Germany, just to use an English word? We also want to know whether the Minister sees opportunities for the Einstein telescope in the light of the growth letter that is yet to be published. Mr. Chairman. It was a real pleasure for me to make this contribution. My colleague Mrs Kuik will be responsible for the MBO.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u368	Thank you, Mr. Rog. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u369	Mr President, whether it is didactic and politically wise to say that you have a pet, there is doubt, but I can only say that the students in the MBO, who are best in their profession, the makers, but also the young people who have to fight to get their degree, and the teachers who help them, have my heart. Our society would be stuck without MBOs. Nitrogen problems or not, without MBOs there are no houses built anyway, the supermarkets are empty and there are too few hands in care, for example for our grandfathers and grandmothers. A lot of people will be with me with their hands in their hair without people like plumbers. Mbos are badly needed. Craftsmanship needs to be more in the spotlight. Attractive is the energy that can be seen by students during the professional competitions of Skills Heroes, where every year about 50 disciplines compete for the title of best professional in the Netherlands. The CDA is pleased that these professional competitions are supported with a grant. Besides the experience and the fact that it looks beautiful on the student's resume, it is also really a business card for our country. As far as the CDA is concerned, MBO courses are well-designed in quality, but a graduate MBO wants to deepen himself further, then this can only be done via HBO Ad-weg, aimed at cognitive floors, but not on a professional level within the MBO. The CDA is therefore in favour of a master title that can be obtained by an additional floor, via the master and companion route. The image of the professional/professional is thus further enhanced and a growth perspective is offered. The CDA, together with the Christian Union, would like to know the possibilities for the Minister to develop one-year master's courses in several sectors in the MBO, where Ad's are housed in MBO institutions, so that students and, for example, already working MBOs in lifelong learning can opt for a headline on their training, in which deepening is central. A lot of sectors are jumping over mbo's. It's nice that MBOs are wanted. But the CDA also sees risks, namely that students are picked from school by companies, because they need people badly. The number of early school leavers is increasing. The CDA is getting signals that green picking is one of the causes of this. That's not OK, because there's also the bbl work learning route, where companies can train someone in the company. In addition, the student can obtain a diploma; win-win. We'd like to get a better picture of that green picking. Is this particularly true in sectors where, for example, there are hardly any Bbl training? We want to prevent young people from getting out of school without a diploma when they lose their jobs. The CDA wants an agreement to be concluded with employees and employers through the ESC with the aim of ensuring that these young people still obtain their initial qualification within six years. Then I'll join the alumni policy. A better alumni policy can help to make lifelong development more self-evident. With the CDA motion, we asked for a mbo-apk where graduates can go back to the educational institution after five years for advice on their career and for after-school, retraining or retraining. I'd like to know from the Minister how far schools are with this now. In the context of lifelong development, there is increasing variation in the supply of MBO training and in the form, such as obtaining certificates. We would like an inventory of what successes there are and whether these are being rolled out. What opportunities and obstacles do institutions see in order to increase the connection to adult learning needs? Mr. Chairman. I'm also the spokesman for development cooperation. Sometimes you have a crossover on subjects. I want to make a point about internationalisation. I saw a wonderful example at Count College where students trained for mechanics follow an excellence programme in Addis Ababa. This affects international and social entrepreneurship; you push boundaries in thinking and doing things. The students of the College of Counties may have more technical knowledge than the African mechanics, but these mechanics are far ahead of their ability to solve and ingenuity because they have to work with much less equipment and tools. This project is only for a few. Will the Minister make an effort to give more MBOs the opportunity to participate in such excellence programmes that are valuable both from the educational and development point of view? Finally. In the Netherlands 2.5 million people aged 16 and over have difficulty reading and writing and/or calculating. More than half of them are indigenous. A growing group of young people comes from school. What are the ministers going to do to counter this increase in primary and MBO education? The CDA has asked the government to set targets with sectors where low literacy is widespread, such as cleaning, building, kitchen and agriculture to reduce low literacy. What steps has the Minister taken so far?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u370	You were ready, weren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u371	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u372	Then Mr Paternotte for a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u373	I find it an inspiring example of the Countship College and the activities in Addis Ababa. I share your call to ensure that MBOs are much more likely to develop internationally. I also heard your colleague, Mr Rog, who wants to limit the internationalisation. He's worried about the english. Can we agree that in the MBO we may need a certain degree of engulation to ensure that those MBOs are indeed given the opportunity to obtain Erasmus grants to gain experience abroad, as you have just described in the example you enthusiastically described?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u374	It's nice of Mr Paternotte to give it a try. It's a completely different example. We are talking about a project exchange in the context of education and social education, but also in the context of development cooperation. During the budget debate on Development Cooperation last year, I drew attention to this. That's not getting off the ground. That is why I combine this here with education and ask the Minister of Education about it. Mr Rog made a very different point. Mr Wiersma made the same thing. That's about what people you need here and who we train here. If that's a lot of people from abroad leaving, what are we doing? You have to make choices in there. That's a different story than what I'm talking about here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u375	Somehow I don't quite get it. If I understand your example correctly, you say that it would be good if many more rocks had these kinds of projects. I'll share that. This means that more Dutch MBO students go abroad. The other way around, you say, no, it has to be less, we have to make choices. Maybe you can point it out after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u376	They go for a very short period of time, of course. In addition, you are not talking about people who are going to study for years, which was given as an example earlier. This involved international students coming here to study. Here we are talking about project projects. Well, that's a difference, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u377	I hear a beautiful, passionate story about the MBO. Now I have said in my contribution that GroenLinks wants to significantly strengthen the control and participation of MBO students and that it requires board grants to enable full participation in MBO student councils. Does the CDA agree with us?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u378	Yes. We have also seen the bill on the profiling fund. We have also asked questions, for example how JOB is supported. We still have to get the answers to those questions, but that is a point of attention. How do we ensure that young people can do this in addition to their studies?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u379	That's a good thing to hear. But can I conclude that if it turns out that the EUR 10 million that is now reserved for the MBO student fund, you say it is not enough, we will see if we can raise more money for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u380	Whoever lives then... We must then see what happens; you cannot anticipate it. We do not yet know to what extent it will be used. I hope it's well used and found. If that is the case, then we will be discussing it at that time. We have set this up and Mr Van den Berge is already saying that there is a shortage.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u381	I am going to Mr Wiersma, who is asking a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u382	Low literacy is an important theme. In the past, we have been building together for this, and we have also asked the Minister all kinds of questions, to see if she can reach agreements with municipalities. Has that happened enough? What's your picture of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u383	Mr Wiersma is right to make a point about this, namely that this is not yet enough. Together, we have tabled a motion in which we are dealing with sectors in which low literacy is high. A number of these sectors have also been mentioned: we do want to take steps to lower that threshold and to include people in projects to tackle low literacy. We haven't seen any of that yet. That is why I am asking you to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u384	Finally, Mr. Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u385	Honestly, you woke me up with that, too. That's why I thought I'd ask the question anyway. In this way we can get a response from the Minister in her term. What happened to the request for administrative agreements with the municipalities on a whole set of indicators that we have proposed together?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u386	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u387	Yeah, a good addition.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u388	Thank you, Mrs. Kuik. I'd like to suspend until 2:10 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u389	After the suspension we start with a short arrangement of work. Then we proceed with the first term on the side of the Chamber.
