ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u1	I reopen the discussion on the Bill Quality Assurance for Building (34453), Amendment of the Housing Act, the General Provisions of Environmental Law and the Civil Code in connection with the introduction of a new quality assurance system for building and strengthening the position of the building consumer, i.e. the Quality Assurance for Building Act. I would like to welcome the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations to the First Chamber. I would like to remind you that this is a third term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u3	Mr. Chairman. Almost two years ago, at the request of then Minister Plasterk, the vote on this law was postponed. At that time, a majority of this Chamber did not seem convinced of the bill. For us as a PVV group, the starting point was already clear: by privatising construction supervision, the risk arises that a butcher will approve his own meat. Building supervision should therefore remain a public task. During the interim period, the Minister held consultations with the parties concerned. Extensive consultation, which ultimately took almost two years. In the meantime, the uncertainty about the future of the building and housing control system has changed over the municipal services, as the bill has been hanging over the market for many years. More than a year ago, in February 2018, the director of the Dutch Association for Construction and Housing Supervision, Mr Wico Ankersmit, already indicated that this means that municipalities invest less and less in building and housing supervision and that people who come from school opt for other sectors of construction. I quote: "by delaying and unclearness in the Quality Assurance for Building Act, quality decreases further and that is worrying," said Mr Ankersmit on BNR-News Radio at the time. In the meantime, can the Minister indicate what she has done to ensure, in addition to efforts to promote the possible new system, that the current building and housing control departments in the Dutch municipalities could maintain quality? Can the Minister also indicate what she is going to do with the municipality in the coming years in order to maintain and maintain the quality of these municipal departments and to have sufficient influx of suitable staff, regardless of whether this bill is being introduced? On the introduction and implementation of this bill, the Minister has concluded an administrative agreement with the Association of Dutch Municipalities, the VNG. Such an administrative agreement is typical of the way the Rutte cabinet operates. We saw it earlier in particular with the Energy Agreement and the Climate Agreement, and with the Intergovernmental Programme. Important frameworks are not laid down in legislation and are not dealt with through parliamentary processes, but through consultation with umbrella organisations. Not the representative of the people, but the administrative lobby is setting the lines in this cabinet. That's a bad thing. There are still many open ends to this administrative agreement, in which Parliament has no idea of the final impact of this law. For example, in the last written round, our group asked the following questions about the provisions on monitoring contained in the administrative agreement. Can the Minister indicate on the basis of which specific aspects the criteria will be assessed? When is there an insurmountable bottleneck? Under what conditions is ICT in order? What is the standard for "sufficient tools" and "sufficient quality assurance"? Among other things, the Minister replied as follows: "As agreed in the governance agreement, I will monitor, in consultation with the VNG and with the parties involved in the construction process, the progress of the implementation of the system in the run-up to the entry into force of the bill. If bottlenecks are identified, I will examine in consultation with the parties what measures are needed" and: "The process in which I follow these developments together with interested parties, both in terms of implementation and in terms of pilot projects, is an administrative process." The Minister is ignoring parliamentary duties here. In order to weigh this bill, we need to be able to test it for effectiveness, legality and feasibility. The role of the parliament is ignored by removing it as an administrative process, which can be adjusted with interested parties at random. Is the Minister's view that Parliament is not a party to an administrative process? In this way, it remains completely unclear what the frameworks are for checking whether the law is effective and enforceable. In addition, the parties involved in construction are given a disproportionately large voice in public policy vis-à-vis the parliament. Does the Minister consider that to be a correct relationship? In recent months we have already received the necessary letters from the construction sector. It calls for swift implementation of the law as this would be necessary for the implementation of the climate agreement, the sustainability measures and the energy transition. The climate lobby knows where Abraham gets the mustard. All the more reason to be extra critical of this bill as a parliament. To return to the further statement of answer: The Dutch Construction and Housing Supervision Association is also critical of this response. She writes very recently on her website: "Many answers are nothing more than a comprehensive explanation of what has been written before. In our view, the subject of emptiness is, in particular, far too vague. With the advent of the Environment Act, where the number of permits is also expected to decrease further, it is impossible to continue to finance the VTH work as competent authority through the fee revenue of building applications. Nor is it answered what the Minister's criteria are for having sufficient confidence to bring the bill into force. Indeed, it is very important that, when entering the Vlieland to Vaals law, sufficient quality assurance agencies have been recognised which can also carry out quality assurance." Can the Minister elaborate on the issue of the fee? We, too, have asked questions about this before. Are these actually going down? Can the Minister now clarify the criteria for quality assurance? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The construction sector itself is also critical of the governance agreement. I quote from a letter from Building Netherlands dated 10 July 2018 to this Chamber. "In the previous examination of the bill, many of your Chamber's questions and objections focused on the relationship between competent authority and private parties. According to her letter, the Minister does not intend to amend the unclear legislation but wants to clarify the unclear legislation by means of an administrative agreement and lower legislation. Building the Netherlands considers that a governance agreement cannot be a means of explaining unclear or qualitatively weak legislation. This is a very far-reaching change in the system, and this includes quality and clarity of legislation. An administrative agreement is not binding, legally unenforceable and inappropriate to base long-term policies." Mr. Chairman. Can the Minister explain why she insists on a flawed law, while neither the sector nor the municipal authorities have really been helped with the bill? Can the Minister indicate whether legislation on quality assurance should not focus on the quality of legislation rather than on shadowy administrative agreements? I'd like a response. Can the Minister further indicate what it will do if the pilot projects fail, if there are no positive results on quality and cost? Is the Minister prepared to refrain completely from entry into force by 2021? Or will the entry into force continue? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The Minister states that there is no privatisation, that the competent authority ultimately remains with the municipalities, with which the system would be public, and not private. In the meantime, however, she again talks about a shared responsibility of the municipalities and the private parties. This leads to irreconcilableness. There must always be clarity about responsibility. There is now a risk that things will be moved together or that the hands will be removed, with all the consequences that this will have. Building safety must never be compromised by such uncertainty. Therefore, it is better to opt for a well-executed role of the government as market leader rather than for this half-half-solution. Otherwise, how can a municipality adequately weigh a notification technically before enforcing it or not? The introduction of the Environment Act will also provide for flexibility of the environmental plans. Such developments only make the situation in the built environment more complex, making it essential as a government to stay sharp, with proper supervision. That is not to be expected with this bill. The PVV Group will therefore vote against this bill. Mr. Chairman. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u4	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. I give the floor to Mr Pijlman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In July 2017, we discussed here the Quality Assurance Act for Building, which had been working for twenty years at that time. After a wide-ranging debate, the Minister asked for the vote to be held. Now almost two years later, we stand here for the third term and vote after the recess. Both in the first and in the second term, we, the D66 Group, have argued that we consider the present law to be an improvement in current practice. Many incidents show that the current system in which the municipality is the supervisor is no longer working. In fact, the municipality is only on paper supervisor. That was also the conclusion of the Safety Research Council in the report entitled Building constructive safety. This legislative proposal gives a strong boost to quality in the construction sector by bringing liability for contractors to a normal level, which is quite common in other sectors. The draft law before us provides better protection for clients. All clients: private and professional. In many municipalities, building supervision has been cut, which often means that plans are assessed only on paper. That leads to undesirable situations. However, in the first and second reading we also had many questions about the division of tasks between clients, contractors, quality assurance agencies, ZBO and municipalities. Over the past year, this has been clarified and laid down in the governance agreement between the Minister, the VNG, the G4, the G40 and the Association for Construction and Housing Supervision. Discussions have also been held with the security regions. This has led to clarification so that almost everyone now says: import! That's worth a compliment to the Minister. However, the governance agreement will have to be implemented carefully. In the previous discussion of the bill, the D66 Group was promised that the necessary AMvBs will be placed before our Chamber, so that we can continue to follow the process of implementation. I would like to see confirmation of that commitment. In order to be able to adjust, it is also necessary to continue working with pilots until the intended date of entry and to share the results with our Chamber. The pilots will, we believe, also have to be carried out in classes 2 and 3. Does the Minister intend to do the same with the partners of the administrative agreement? Mr. Chairman. In the first instance, D66 expressed doubts about the ten-day period after the completion of a building. If the municipality has sufficient time to assess the file and if there are signs that mistakes have been made, to postpone commissioning, we wondered. The Minister was not very clear about that at the time. The administrative agreement now provides that municipalities may require an extension of the research period in the event of an incomplete file or reasonable doubt as to the quality of the building, and that entry into service is prohibited at that time. We regard this as an additional guarantee that the municipalities still play an important role in the new system. We assume that this rule is also laid down in an AMvB. Mr. Chairman. The entry into force of the Act is now foreseen together with that of the Environment Act on 1 January 2021. To our written questions, the Minister replied that this is at the express request of the UNG, but that she will inform us six months before entry into force if all the conditions are met. We understand that this time is still needed to allow everyone to prepare and work with working IT systems. At the same time, we warn that this law is once again being hung on the entry into force of the Environment Act, which entails risks. That's gonna be more of a mega operation. We would have preferred it to be different. Can the Minister explain again why this was chosen? Mr. Chairman. All things considered, there is now a proposal that regulates liability and supervision in building much better than in the existing system. This law improves the quality of construction and the distribution of responsibility. We await the Minister's reply with interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u6	Thank you, Mr. Arrowman. I give the floor to Mrs Fiers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The new Code of Conduct Integrity will soon be adopted. That is an important first step. In our new Code of Conduct, it has been agreed that we should also report ancillary functions which may be relevant in the context of the treatment. So let me set an example straight away: I say in this context that I am also Commissioner at a housing corporation. Mr. Chairman. If you're looking on Google for "surpassing home" -- what I did in preparation for this debate -- you're gonna end up in the wonderful world of people buying a new home. On the website of the Vereniging Eigen Huis, for example, you can read what the buyer of a new house should check for delivery. And that's a big deal. I quote: "Is water coming out of the taps, flushes the toilet well, does the stove work, does the hanging and closing work?" The advice of the Association Eigen Huis reads, and I quote: "Try out this kind of parts of the house during delivery. If you have too little knowledge of building regulations, it is wiser to bring an expert." It is of course the reverse world that as a consumer you have to check the delivered house yourself, but better still with an expert, from top to bottom, for defects, because otherwise, if those defects are revealed at a later date, you will no longer be able to knock on the door of the contractor. For example, we have not arranged this for other products we buy in the Netherlands. We also do not take a computer expert to the store to see if the PC is working properly on all parts. The present bill strengthens the position of consumers and clients. This change means that contractors are less likely to be freed from liability to the client than under current law. This also applies to errors committed by third parties for which the contractor is liable in relation to the client.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u8	You are now pretending that nothing has actually been arranged for the delivery of homes at the moment. Especially for individuals there are possibilities to prevent you from sitting with the fried pears afterwards. For example, Woningborg is a quality guarantee that people can conclude. One can also hire someone for a modest amount to walk with the delivery. So there are opportunities within the current system to tackle something. Can't you see those possibilities are already there? And what makes this bill such an improvement that it is necessary to trample the entire system?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u9	We think that is the last sentence of the paragraph I was working on, which provides an incentive for builders to deliver more quality. We believe that by moving the track and regulating liability in this way, the quality of construction, as the law calls it, can get a lot of impetus. I shall return to the insurance section in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u10	In itself, this liability can indeed provide an impetus, but the law also means that the whole system of building and housing supervision exercised by the municipality is going all the way and that precisely that essential role of the government disappears. We then have a little bit better legal consumer protection, which is already being regulated in practice in a different way. Is it worth to tearing that system apart for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u11	In his contribution, Mr Van Hattem indicated that you must have a clear responsibility. He pleads for keeping it the way it is now. Our analysis is that the current system does not work properly in this way, because the responsibility for delivering a product belongs to the person who makes the product. It must also be subject to a review itself. I'll be right back to the choice that lies ahead. It is important that everyone has their own responsibility in this system. This law, as far as we are concerned, provides for this in an even and clear way for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u12	Finally, Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u13	You stay a little away from the aspect of the construction and supervision that should really lie with the government. You continue to insist on the aspect of the responsibility now being placed on the builder. Fine, but in the case of building and housing supervision, that essential factor of control, supervision and technical knowledge that a municipality should have will disappear. That is precisely the problem that we are going to encounter when this law is introduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u14	I think I've made myself clear. As far as we are concerned, this system chooses a very clear part: the builder is responsible for the quality that the builder delivers and the government supervises. This has been largely worked out in the covenant. Then I'll get to the second part. The creation of this law has a long history. This long preliminary journey immediately shows the complexity of the building world and the various, sometimes contradictory, interests in the construction process. This long preliminary journey also immediately makes it clear that the construction practice in the Netherlands is not changed with one change of law; much more is needed for that. I'll get back to you in a minute. But first the question to the Minister whether she is prepared to give this Chamber an annual progress report up to the time of its introduction. Questions have also been asked about this regularly in the previous introductions. Much remains to be done. I think it's important that we keep up with that. My group believes that it is now time to clarify the political will to actually introduce the new system so that all those concerned can make the final transition to the new system and prepare their supporters for it, ahead of the date of its introduction. But, as I said, we are far from there with this bill. Much needs to be done on the way to the actual introduction of the law and then on the way to much, by many different parties and sometimes with conflicting interests. It is therefore important to make clear picket posts for the follow-up. The recent governance agreement with the VNG sets out a number of elements in the preparation for the implementation of this legislation, in which municipalities have and retain an important public role. I shall look at Mr Van Hattem for a moment. We think this is a very good step. The members of the PvdA Group would like to draw attention to three important points for the follow-up. First of all, the approved technical approvals, the so-called ETGs. You become half a construction expert when you look into the subjects. ETGs are comparable to standardised components of an IKEA building package and can make a significant contribution to reducing the risks and costs of quality assurance. ETGs are an incentive to reduce the cost of failure in construction, which is high. A motion for this was adopted in 2017, during the debate in the Dutch Parliament. In reply to our written questions, the Minister states that she will work with interested parties as soon as there is political clarity about the legislative proposal. This brings us to two questions to the Minister. Can the Minister state what she intends to do in this discussion on the ETGs? And is the Minister prepared to set or agree a verifiable standard? Because with a clear standard on this important part of quality development, the planned evaluation can also be closely monitored. Then there is the second question. The implementation of the new law falls or stands with the insurability of the risks. A lot of questions have been asked about this too, also via all kinds of emails. In Article 665a, Book 7 of the Civil Code, this is now settled. In reply to our questions, the Minister has asked that she consult with insurers as soon as there is clarity about the legislative proposal. The fraction of the PvdA considers it more than desirable that an insured guarantee can be secured for each construction project, which relieves the user of the delivered product and partly compensates for the damage suffered. Does the Minister share this statement? Does she foresee any problems with this? If so, which one and how does she intend to solve it? Finally, the third point concerns the cost of implementing the new system. In the debate with this Chamber on the law, the minister's predecessor explicitly stressed that the introduction of the system would lead to savings in terms of avoiding duplication of work. In the governance agreement with the VNG, the Minister agreed that on this part of the evaluation, "the extent to which the tasks of the competent authority and quality assurance officers were carried out in a cost-effective manner, paying particular attention to the development of fees and market rates applied by quality assurance officers." Can the Minister indicate how it intends to assess this cost-effectiveness and whether it envisages an explicit standard? The PvdA believes that this law lays the foundation of the building. It is important for all parties to finally clarify this foundation, so that we can start building the rest of the building, but the building is not finished yet. Much remains to be done on the road to legislative implementation. The highest point has not yet been reached, so unfortunately no pot beer yet. We look forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Fiers. I call Mr Lintmeier.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u16	Mr. Chairman. Today, we are holding the third deadline for a legislative proposal which, at the request of the then Minister, was held in second place after consideration. This Chamber had many questions which the Minister could not answer satisfactorily. They dealt with a number of principles in the law as well as the effects. In this third term, my group wants to check whether sufficient clarity has emerged between 11 July 2017 and today to reach a judgment. We are doing so in the light of the choice made by the current minister not to improve the law, but to try to clarify it in consultation with stakeholders. A special choice: as far as my group is concerned, the successive Cabinets have been able to use almost two years to improve the law itself. But we have to do it with what's now. GroenLinks had two main points of criticism of the bill. But before I go into that, here's what I'm gonna do. We share a number of important goals that the law wants to regulate: more quality in construction and better protection of the consumer/customer. This is urgently needed, because the number of defects in the delivery of buildings is immensely high and no one is waiting for more collapsed parking garages and collapsed stadium courts. Our first point of criticism was that the law complicates the system of assurance on the part of the market. From my first term at that time: "The Minister wants to put quality assurance on the same market in a too often poor quality market. In my group's view, this can only be done if the supervision of that guarantee is properly and unequivocally regulated. The bill introduces concepts such as authorised instruments, instrument providers, quality assurance and delivery files. These are all things that are used by and for the market. In conjunction with this, they must ensure that they are built according to the plans and requirements. An admission organisation will assess whether the instruments provide sufficient guarantees on the basis of legal criteria. In the legislative proposal, the substantive review by the public regulator is no longer appropriate in advance and during the construction process. The market regulates it itself and must ensure legitimate trust, according to the explanatory memorandum, which also speaks of evidence that the rules on delivery have been built." That was then, and it's still true now. I called that complex back then. It is, to draw a parallel, as if the accountant hired by the entrepreneur had a presumption of proof that the annual figures were applied according to the rules. We all know how much tightening up of the accounting rules has been prescribed by law in recent years to get things back in order in this industry. Our concern was and is not whether the consumer/customer can determine whether the good colour tiles have been applied, or whether the water is flowing out of the tap, to supplement Mrs. Fiers. But what about the implementation of the much more complex requirements concerning the robustness and durability of the construction, the quality of insulation and ventilation and questions of fire safety. Cares that don't stand on their own. Among other things, the Safety Research Council is hard about the quality in the construction and learning capacity of the industry. An additional point is that if deficiencies are detected, questions remain as to how liability can be detected. In many cases, the contractor will be liable, but according to the current minister, in answers to written questions it will be exempt from errors that have arisen elsewhere in the chain. What gives the Minister the confidence that the complex public-private system will function properly and that the learning capacity in the industry will increase? And how does this law prevent consumers/clients from being sent from the cabinet to the wall in case of mistakes made within the chain? In other words, how unambiguous are the liabilities now regulated in this complex system? Our second main point of criticism was about the unclear and stripped-out role of the municipality in the move from public to private supervision proposed by the law. The agreement with the UNG, which has now been concluded, should remove the uncertainties in this area. In principle, my group welcomes the fact that the Minister in the Lower House has last stated explicitly that the municipality can intervene both during and after the construction on the basis of signals from the quality assurance officer and, if necessary, stop delivery or construction. We would like the municipality to be able to carry out quality checks on a sample basis on its own authority, particularly in the crucial areas of building safety, construction safety and sustainability. Does the Minister see room for that with this bill? In principle, we welcome the step taken by an administrative agreement to implement the law in a uniform manner. But the agreement between Minister and VNG excels in not clearly defined criteria and unquantified indicators. There remains a very great concern on the part of our group. When does the law work properly? When has this been sufficiently demonstrated? What is perhaps sufficient for the market players does not have to be for the minister or the municipality. The Minister's answer to questions from our group, as well as those from the PVV, on the unspecific approach in the covenant, is unsatisfactory to my group. My quote begins about where Mr Van Hattem left off: "The process"....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... These are not criteria which can be measured quantitatively and in detail in figures or indicators in advance and where conclusions can then be drawn on the basis of a numerical outcome." We really think that's too vague. In this way, it will be difficult to determine whether the system is working or not and whether the remote public responsibility is being fulfilled in the new system. In particular, the Minister wants to discuss how implementation is going and whether additional measures are needed. Then what are we talking about? About an adjustment per AMvB? About a strengthened legal framework? Can the Minister at least indicate when the new system does not work in the eyes of the cabinet and what repair possibilities it sees? Our group stands in all honesty for a difficult balance. On the one hand, we agree that quality assurance in construction should be increased and that the construction sector should take responsibility for its own quality. And the position of clients and consumers needs to be strengthened. On the other hand, we find the rigged system complex and public oversight too distant. In our opinion, monitoring the safety and sustainability of buildings is a public interest that should be protected by the public. We are curious to see what guarantees the Minister can give for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u17	Thank you, Mr. Lintmeijer. I now give the floor to Mrs De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u18	Mr President, thank you. This law has a long history, both in terms of preparation and treatment. Others have already talked about it. The first time, actually, I have to say the last time that we talked about this law, is already two years ago. The bill was then arrested at the request of Minister Plasterk at the time. It is up to this current minister to take the follow-up. The CDA Group would like to emphasise that it respects the way in which the Minister has worked on this issue. The CDA group had doubts about the design of liability, the obligation of warning and the division of roles between the municipality and quality assurance in the Quality Assurance Act. And of course the timetable: when does the law enter? Since the plenary session of July 2017, the First Chamber received a letter in June 2018 and in January 2019 the government agreement concluded between Rijk and VNG. Following a written round on these documents, the Minister responded by replying on 26 March last. The correspondence carried out showed that the liability and the obligation of warning will not be further developed in this law or the Civil Code, even in lower regulations, although this could be reflected in the June 2018 letter. In fact, we would have found the latter questionable. In our view, this is a problem. After all, there is no record of how long liability lasts and when the obligation of warning applies and does not apply, not in this law and not in the Civil Code. In the view of the CDA group, this would have been necessary and not uncommon. We also do it in other areas. Designers, architects, quality assurance: they can all limit their liability financially, but not the contractor. An imbalance. Making different agreements, as the Minister suggests, may be for very large dominant market players, but small and large SMEs will not achieve this because of the unequal power ratio. The Minister also states in her letter that a contractor is not responsible for mistakes of others, but that is nowhere in the law and nowhere in the Civil Code and the Minister does not want to include this either. The warning obligation. In accordance with the 2012 Decision on Uniform Administrative Conditions in force and those for the Integrated Contracts, calculations are also carried out by contractors. A limited duty of warning for clients is part of this. They have to check the calculations. So this bill is going to destroy this again, or it's going to conflict with it. This law only contains a warning obligation for the contractor. Written. He also applies, according to the law and the minister, to the procurement of works. The Minister states that the proportionality Guide advises tenderers to make suggestions for contract terms to be applied during the procurement procedure, but that is nothing more than an opinion. The fact is that the Minister also acknowledges that, in the case of a tender, an invitation to tender containing a reservation not or otherwise to carry out certain parts of the contract should be dismissed as invalid. How real and sustainable is this obligation of warning? The government agreement between the Empire and VNG. Glad it's here. In any case, it provides clarity, but it also raises questions. Only follow-up class 1 pilots are started, the easiest category. The accidents of the past, to which the Security Council referred, occurred in subsequent classes 2 and 3. There are no pilot projects in this. Now, after the completion of the pilot projects, we still do not know whether the construction quality is being improved and whether such accidents could have been prevented. Also given the time, the CDA Group has serious doubts as to whether the pilots can be completed as a whole. We also read that a six-month period before the entry into force of the Law, all interested parties will consider whether and, if so, how the law can be properly implemented. The latter, which is reviewing six months before entry into force, combined with the Minister's communication that pilots can already be carried out under current legislation and the fact that the concluded administrative agreement looks more clearly at the division of roles between quality assurance agencies and municipalities, brings the CDA Group to the conclusion that it is not wiser to use the intervening time to make a better law, in which, either the law itself or the Civil Code, the various responsibilities, rights and obligations of the various parties are more clearly defined than is the case in this law. Mr. Chairman. A difficult balance, including for my group, because there are also good things in this law. The reverse burden of proof for contractors/privatees is a good thing, but something that can be quickly arranged outside this law as far as we are concerned. We also support the intention to improve building and housing supervision and thereby increase the quality of the building. The pilots can start outside this law. Whether the market system with quality assurance or the strengthening of knowledge and skills in municipalities is preferable, we can then assess in peace and quiet. We are looking forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u19	Thank you, Mrs De Vries. I give the floor to Mr Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u20	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the SP Group, I said in first and second terms that we have serious objections to the proposal for the quality assurance law for building. It is essential for us that there are supervisory tasks of the government, or. the municipality, are shifted to private supervisors. I refer in particular to the monitoring of the construction site. The SP Group is not in favour of privatising this type of task. We believe that the monitoring of regulations designed to promote safety, health and fire safety is an excellent public task. In the legislative proposal, that public task is being undermined too much. New in the third term of the discussion on the bill is that the Minister has now reached an agreement with the Association of Dutch Municipalities on how municipalities can still fulfil their final responsibility for building supervision. My group considers this agreement to be an improvement, at least a clarification, although some issues remain unclear. But this agreement does not remove our serious objections, which I have just briefly summarized. That is why this bill will not receive the support of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u21	Thank you, Mr. Köhler. I give the floor to Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u22	Mr. Chairman. Improving the quality of the building and its monitoring: that is what we are all striving for. The legislative proposal before us clearly identifies the problems. Construction projects have become more complex. Due to the fragmentation of construction projects, there is often a lack of clarity as to who is responsible for the integral construction quality of the entire building. Finally, but certainly not least: municipal supervision is mainly carried out in advance and on paper. In addition, many places have not been invested in municipal building supervision for a long time. In addition, over the last few weeks we saw a state again about the amount of failure costs in construction. That's not bad. The report of the Research Council for Safety on the collapse of the parking garage in Eindhoven puts a big line behind all these findings. So yes, the quality assurance of building needs to be improved and requires action. The Minister inherited a bill whose examination in this Chamber was suspended at the request of her predecessor. My group was very critical at the time, because we share the problem analysis of this bill, but not the solution direction. In fact, we feared that the main problems would remain. I'll get to that in a minute, but first a compliment. In our view, this Minister has done her best to improve on certain points. For example, I think it is a great achievement that an administrative agreement has been reached with the municipalities and that the discord that we had during the previous treatment has been resolved. Hats off. An agreement has been reached that provides clarity for municipalities in the phase until the law enters into force and beyond. Rest is organized by shifting the date of entry into force and linking it to the Environment Act. But my group was very critical of the law, of the new instrument of quality assurance that is being implemented by the private sector, of the knowledge and skills of municipalities, which in our view is not encouraged by this law, whereas the municipality is fully responsible. If there is pressure on a bill to bring down the fee in itself, of course that always sounds pleasant, lower fees at the same time there is no room to invest in improving the supervisory role. In addition, this bill is about the first category of buildings, the most simple, while the problems are great in the other categories; see the report of the Research Council on Security. The municipality remains fully committed to this, but so do the problems of quality and scope of supervision. If we're not careful, we're gonna be running out of building supervision in municipalities. Or more friendlyly put: how can municipalities make this happen, what is the roadmap that gives the report of the Research Council for Security on the parking garage in Eindhoven a firm follow-up to actually solve the problems that exist? The president of the OVV, Mr Joustra, was critical of the choice of private quality assurance agencies. Mr. Chairman. The problems are clear and we are long on the way with this bill. My group is also happy to respond constructively to the improvements needed in building supervision. We see the good efforts of the Minister, but the problems remain in the basis of this bill. It is necessary to invest in the public sector, in the quality of building supervision. It is precisely the more complex buildings that will have to be the subject of attention. Elements of this bill are useful, but with investment in public oversight and without the elements of privatisation. The current legislative proposal has too many complex elements and moves forward the main problems, improving and strengthening the supervision of complex buildings, a number of years. My group will therefore probably not be able to vote in favour of this bill, but of course we would like to hear the Minister's answers first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u23	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I give the floor to Mr Schouwenaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u24	Madam President. In the first term, the VVD was positive about this bill. There is a problem in the construction, complexity and quality of construction, and this bill does something about it. It increases the responsibility of the contractor and aims to improve supervision during construction. Now we need the third term. Meanwhile, many questions have been asked and answered, and a governance agreement has been reached with the VNG. What does this mean for the bill? First of all, the contractor's liability. In economic terms, every supplier has a duty to deliver a good product, and the buyer has to pay the agreed price. In construction there is a different arrangement: the contractor is not responsible for visible defects if they have not been reported by the customer at the time of delivery. My group sees no reason for this restriction. The contractor must also deliver a good product and he must repair all defects. Of course, one customer is more expert than another. This can improve quality. But my group sees no reason to demand less quality from the contractor. For the contractor's liability, all customers are the same. Then the supervision and control by the quality assurance officer during construction. The Vereniging Eigen Huis has proposed a division: to increase the contractor's liability, but not to introduce quality assurance supervision for the time being. That would mean not to be prevented by supervision, but to be cured by civil justice. The VVD Group prefers the saying "prevention is better than cure," or better both, to prevent and heal. During the first and second periods, quality assurance supervision was surrounded by a large number of questions. Most of these were answered in the administrative agreement of 17 January. The VVD Group greatly appreciates the parties that negotiated this agreement: the Minister, the VNG and the major cities. In about eight points, all problems are addressed. The practical implementation is tested in pilots, there is room to adjust, the Empire pays 3 million to the costs and the position of the municipality as competent authority is guaranteed. My group believes that this administrative agreement should be given scope and that we should trust in the approach of the municipalities. A separate point is the cost: what will the construction consumer pay later? The cost of supervision increases by involving the quality assurance officer. The cost of failure in construction is reduced, possibly by 10% of turnover. The fee can also be lowered, possibly by 20%. It's a mix of three variables. The outcome is not certain, but it is certain that there will be more and better supervision. That's gonna cost more. More supervision isn't free. But we get quality back for that. All in all, the VVD Group welcomes this proposal, together with the administrative agreement. We hope that all those involved will now be able to get to work quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u25	Thank you, Mr. Schouwenaar. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the third term? That is not the case. Then I ask the Minister if she has the opportunity to respond immediately. No? Ten minutes? Then I shall suspend the sitting until 5:10 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u26	We continue to deal with bill 34453, the Quality Assurance for Building Act. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u27	Thank you, Mr President. It is the third time that this bill has been dealt with. It is therefore also the third term for me, although it is the first time I have spoken of this bill in your Chamber. I would like to thank your Chamber for having indicated that it would like to conclude the examination of this bill during this parliamentary term. That's why we're here now. I have, of course, just listened carefully to all the speakers and formed an image of where all the groups stand. It seemed to me most appropriate that I should first say something in a general sense about the proposal that has been put forward, about the work that has been done in the past period, since this cabinet took office, and that I should then answer the many questions that have been raised by the speakers. I do so simply per speaker, with, of course, occasional reference to another, because some questions have been asked by various spokesmen. Let me say first of all that I think it is my responsibility to ensure that we get better building quality in the Netherlands, and a clear division of responsibilities. These are the goals that I, and indeed my predecessors, have been working on. I believe that if you buy a house, a business building or any type of building in the Netherlands, you should be able to assume that such a building complies with the quality rules. That's how it's supposed to be. A building must be safe, you must be able to live in it healthy and it must deliver the performance that has been agreed in advance. Too often this is not the case and there are too many incidents in the construction industry. We're trying to prevent it. We all know that recently the OVV stressed that it is really very important that the security risks in construction projects are well controlled. And I also see a great social interest in ensuring the quality and safety of construction and its monitoring. The quality therefore needs and can be increased, just now, because there is a great construction task. And we are also providing such a great task for the future, because of the sustainability and major infrastructure challenges that our country has. There is therefore a need to substantially improve this quality of construction, and that is simply not self-evident. In the meantime we are further than we were when this Chamber at some point stopped the treatment. So I see that there is now a great deal of support from the municipalities, from the clients, from the contractors. I am pleased that the speakers have also noted that great support. Most speakers have just referred to the administrative agreement. You have undoubtedly all seen the letter that came from Aedes on 18 April, written on behalf of clients and contractors. The legislative proposal envisages a change in the system to ensure quality in the construction sector. But it actually has two main elements. On the one hand, there is that new public-law system of checking and monitoring compliance with the construction regulations. On the other hand, there is a liability regime, which strengthens the position of the construction consumer. I think that these are two elements that together can give that quality impulse that is needed, but also that they are two elements that are in a certain sense in balance. On the one hand, supervision, a public matter, is well regulated, with a quality impulse through the quality assurance system. On the other hand, liability is better regulated. Some speakers have noted that current building practice and construction quality are lagging behind. There is now a paper test in advance to ensure that quality. It will be replaced by the new proposal by a review in practice on the construction site. This is an improvement on the current situation. The marketing authorisation holder shall employ an independent and expert quality assurance officer, who shall check during construction. It looks at the constructive quality, it looks at fire safety, it looks at sustainability, the environment and health. And there have already been pilot projects. The evaluations, which the Court has also received, show that the quality can be increased while the costs can be reduced. Monitoring thus improves, quality improves, but supervision by municipalities as competent authority remains indispensable, also in the new system. I also stressed this in the debate in the House of Representatives. Those municipalities therefore play this important role. It also actually strengthens the ability of municipalities to act in unsafe situations. I know that in the first two deadlines in this Chamber a lot of questions have been asked about the feasibility and enforcement of the bill. I attach great importance to the proper and careful implementation of the system, so that it actually works in practice, so that people and parties can get off the ground with it and so that it has a noticeable effect on the quality of construction. And there are also preconditions for the introduction. So, I think, there have been clear improvements in where we are now. You have seen the letter of 29 June 2018, in which I addressed the questions and concerns that lived in your Chamber. This concerned the scope of the amendments adopted by the House of Representatives. I have dealt with the role of the municipalities in the new system. And I also saw from the written input of 19 February that that explanation and those clarifications could count on support in this Chamber. Of course, I'm very happy about that. Mr. Chairman. After that, I also promised that the interpretation of the amendments would be laid down in further rules where possible. That's what the Chamber asked for. That administrative agreement concerns the division of responsibility between the municipality and the quality assurance officer. With this agreement, the municipalities supported the bill and expressed confidence, both in its feasibility and in its enforcement and the common implementation of the bill. And I have also promised that pilot projects will be organised until the entry into force, in order to gain as much experience as possible that can be taken into account in the implementation of the system. I have further established an implementation plan with the parties and agreed on a process to implement this plan with interested parties. So all of these clarifications, all of these agreements, provide a robust system with clear outlines in my view. I therefore refer to the administrative agreement and agreements with municipalities and other parties. The bill is enforceable and enforceable for them. That trust is there. Let me just say a few things about that liability before I go into the questions. In fact, everyone has said that liability is an important part of the legislative proposal, and indeed it is. This adjustment ensures that a strong incentive can be given to the contractor to deliver quality. It is important that this division of liability between the contractor and the contractor is really better balanced. It also fits better with the general rule that if someone makes a mistake, that error must also be corrected by the person making the mistake. I assume that most contractors do good work and do good work. A contractor who does a good job is therefore not held liable for any mistakes he has not made. But a contractor who fails to meet the criteria is liable. This adaptation seeks to encourage contractors to take more responsibility for the quality of the buildings they make, and to invest in self-checking the quality of the buildings they make. Of course, this has several advantages, also for the contractor himself. After all, he will better control that quality in the production process, which can reduce the cost of failure. This has just been appointed by several speakers. The number of defects can be reduced and clients therefore have less reason to initiate procedures. So we have already done pilot projects, and we have also seen that this can work to everyone's satisfaction. I explained in that letter of 29 June, which I sent together with my colleague from JenV, how this improved obligation to warn contractors can work properly. And I have also confirmed in writing that contractors are only liable for faults to be attributed to them. They are therefore not liable for errors made by others, e.g. by the client. The obligation to prove errors lies primarily with the client. I told you, the bill has a long history. This means that several of my predecessors on this dossier, all of whom had different party political backgrounds, have dealt with this. This means that we have known for some time here in this country and here in The Hague that the existing system is seriously flawed and that something must be done about it and improved. I do not think taking any more time for this will lead to other or better insights. Parties involved in the construction process have been in uncertainty for a long time. I don't think that's desirable. I have just mentioned the great construction task, the sustainability challenge that we stand for. Therefore, I do not think that any longer delay is justified. I wouldn't want it to be better to be the enemy of the good. Because the number of errors needs to be reduced, supervision needs to be improved and the cost of failure reduced, so that we can contribute to the social task we have in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the questions that have been asked, starting with Mr Van Hattem of the PVV. He talked about the board agreement. His conclusion from the fact that there is an administrative agreement was that the parties involved would have a greater role than the parliament. Of course it isn't. The agreements contained in the administrative agreement are an elaboration of the legal framework established by Parliament. That's a very common way of working. Parliament has the first word and the last word, but if the law were to be adopted, it would be worked out by all parties, and I believe that the administrative agreement contributes to this, also in the eyes of the municipalities. Mr Van Hattem also asked what I am doing to ensure that, pending the new law or not, the municipalities do their best to ensure that that quality is good enough. That's right: it's primarily up to the municipalities to maintain quality. It is also known that municipalities may have a capacity problem in their own organisation and that they are sometimes forced to hire capacity. There is also consultation on this; there are several bodies involved, precisely to ensure that the capacity that is not available is then absorbed by the municipalities themselves. Furthermore, of course, parties are also engaged in the deployment of various ICT resources and are putting testers to work to solve the capacity problems. Mr Van Hattem asked about the...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u28	You say that the municipalities are responsible for this, but they are opposed to the fact that this system has been hanging over the market for a long time, so that they cannot get to the right people. You say they can hire them externally. But what have you, as a minister, as the ultimate system manager, done to improve it for these municipalities? Has anything been done at national level to address this important battle, which is taking place in all the municipalities and which is important for the whole of the country? Or is it really just left to municipalities themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u29	It is up to the municipalities themselves, it is their responsibility to take care of that. They also have the opportunity to do so. In the current system, in which they have that task, they solve it by hiring externally. In general, I consult with municipalities and provinces on the construction plan. I have endeavoured to ensure that I could conclude a governance agreement with the VNG so that, if this bill were to be adopted, we would help the municipalities to prepare themselves for the new situation, which, in their view and in my view, is an improvement on the current situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u30	You say if this bill is passed. You'll come back to the board agreement as well. But apart from administrative agreement and legislative proposal, isn't it an important public matter for municipalities to have the building security in place, that the municipal departments are well-equipped? That's really important, isn't it? Then you cannot say, as a minister, that we are waiting for this bill to come into effect. Surely action should be taken on this if it proves to be insufficient? Because building safety and building quality concern us all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u31	I fully agree with Mr Van Hattem's conclusion that building safety is important and that the quality of construction concerns us all. That's why I'm defending this bill here. But Mr Van Hattem cannot deny that, in the current situation, the municipalities have that responsibility and that, if they do not fill it in enough, the city council is the one to appeal to the board. So in the current system, that's the way it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u32	Mr. Van Hattem, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u33	That is, in principle, the practice. But if, at national level, it turns out that this really is quite inadequate, then I expect that there will be a Minister of the Interior who is responsible for this, for actively intervening in it, for taking measures to put municipalities in a position at least to put their departments in order and keep them in order, and that will prevent a legislative proposal that may or may not be made or never will remain above the market. This simply involves an effective approach. Now I hear the Minister say: it is basically up to the municipalities and I leave it at that. That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u34	That's right. Mr Van Hattem also asked about the quality assurance criteria. They recruit by means of an instrument approved by the government, which sets out the criteria to be followed. This means that the government at the front determines what criteria they are. Mr Van Hattem and some other speakers asked about the fees and how they would develop. As more buildings become decision-free and are not subject to quality assurance, municipalities will have less work to do and the fees will have to be reduced, because they have to be cost-effective. When municipalities make less costs, that translates into them. Moreover, I have already implemented measures to increase transparency and insight into the fees at municipal level. That is my expectation that this will lead to that decline. In December 2016, an investigation was carried out into the costs and benefits of the system for municipalities, which was sent to your Chamber. This shows that the cost of fees will fall by between 150 and 190 million a year. But we will, of course, have to monitor that to see how it is going to work in practice. My proposal would be to include this part in the review of the legislative proposal. This is also laid down in the governance agreement with the UNG. Mr Van Hattem asked about the pilot projects. If they don't run well enough, how do I deal with the entry into force? I have just referred to the intermediate position, which has been sent to Parliament and which shows positive results. It is not my expectation that such a failure could occur that should lead to the failure of the entry into force, but we must keep our finger on the pulse. We're not doing the pilot projects for nothing. So if you ask whether we are going to keep that finger on the wrist and whether we are going to keep the option open that if the pilot projects give rise to conclusions, then the answer is yes. It is not the expectation, but it is the reason for pilot projects. It's wise to keep the finger on the wrist. Then...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u35	Mr. Pijlman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u36	I just got to Mr. Pijlman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u37	That's why I'm here. Let's talk about the pilot projects. They're extremely important. So far, they have good outcomes, but they do have class 1.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u38	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u39	Since you started that now, I wonder if you still intend to start class 2 and class 3 projects 2, because that is very important for the overall picture, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u40	Mr Pijlman is ahead of me. I wanted to come back to that, because he and others have asked questions about it. I'll go into that in a minute, if that's all right with you. So I'll get back to you on that. Mr Pijlman asked, and that was an important point, about timing. The intention, which is new, is to link it to the entry into force of the Environmental Act. Mr Pijlman thinks that this is risky. I assume he means that a lot will come towards municipalities, because the Environment Act is quite a project and a system change. On the other hand, Mr Pijlman himself said that the municipalities themselves asked for it. If they do have to make changes, they prefer to do so at the same time: changes in the working methods of their own organisation. The other parties have also indicated that it is workable for them. So it actually has two advantages, I think: the advantage of simultaneously implementing the change and taking the advantage of taking the time of a year and a half after the law has been passed, for pilot projects in preparation for this new situation. I see the risk for municipalities that attract a lot of attention, but both for this law and for the Environment Act, of course, we have taken a lot of time. There is also very frequent administrative consultation with the VNG and, moreover, with individual municipalities, so that they can prepare themselves well for the moment when they move on to the new system. "Does the AMvB state that municipalities play a major role in the new system?" That is what Mr Pijlman asked. At law level, the role of the municipalities is already well anchored, so the municipality removes the permits and is responsible for enforcement, while the AMvB regulates the information to be given to the municipality when applying for a permit during the construction and after the construction is completed. In other words, I can confirm that the municipality has a major role in that system. By the way, these AMvBs will also be put forward. I believe that is what Mr Pijlman asked for. Then there is the question of the subject class and categories 1 and 2. Partly at the request of the House of Representatives, it was decided that the system should be started at the time of entry into force of the subsequent class 1. This is understandable in itself, because the risks with simple constructions in sub-class 1 are much more limited. That is why the emphasis has been placed on this. The pilot projects have also been chosen, in consultation with VNG, to focus on follow-up class 1. I agree, however, that it is desirable to have additional experiences in other classes. That is why I would like to explore with the VNG how we can also make further pilot projects possible responsibly in subsequent classes 2 and 3. There are also several parties, including their own National Real Estate Company, which carry out pilot projects for subsequent classes 2 and 3. Then I will go to Mrs Fiers of the Labour Party, who still had a number of questions. For example, she asked if I would be prepared to send the Chamber an annual progress report, so to speak, on the way to entry into force. Of course I am prepared to do so, so that the Chamber can follow developments sufficiently. Mrs Fiers also asked about the recognised technical applications and about the involvement in the consultation on these ETGs. The commitment will be to give the sector the space to apply them to the extent that they will be needed by the sector. I see positive aspects, a form of standardisation, but ultimately the market players will have to consider to what extent these ETGs provide sufficient added value.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u41	The question was, in fact, what is the Minister's commitment? In response to our questions, she also stressed the importance of the ETGs playing an important role in reducing the cost of failure in construction. The other day, of course, there was another large report on the number or percentage of failure costs. I understand that the minister says she's gonna ask everyone and she's not gonna do it all herself, but can she indicate a little more of her own ambition? When I hear it like that, it could also be "if no one is interested in it, we'll go to the order of the day." The search for this law is, of course, what can happen to bring down the cost of failure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u42	Sure, we totally agree. You should not listen to my words as those of some sort of neutral spectator watching what happens. I said that I see the positive side of that. Of course, it has great advantages if you can standardize. We must, of course, see whether it is appropriate for the sector as well. That is, I think, a bit of a search that must be done together with the parties. My aim is to be able to reap the benefits of this. And I'm willing to commit myself to that. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Fiers stated that the insured guarantee should be possible for any construction project. I share that theorem. I thought there was an investigation into compulsory insurance in the previous period. This compulsory insurance for all builders and all construction projects did not always seem to be the best solution at the time and to create the most optimal situation. Not every builder is very insurable. That depends on the track record of quality and solvency of the builder. That is why this law has an obligation to provide information. In any case, the consumer is well informed about whether or not a builder is insured. If the question is whether I would like to see it forever, I would say: yes, I think it would be very sensible if builders could do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u43	One more question. On the one hand, there is, of course, insurance, but on the other hand, there is the advantage of being taken care of as a consumer, in the sense that someone is helping you to move forward. Of course, that's part of it. One is the extent to which insurance can be provided, two is the degree of care for the consumer. Do I understand the Minister's words that she does not foresee any problems in this respect? She talks to insurance companies to see if this can be properly arranged and doesn't foresee any problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u44	We agree on the goal. I also believe that consumers should be given as much care as possible. It must be easy for the consumer to assess whether the builder has that insurance. So we are in complete agreement on the objective. I have now reached Mr Lintmeijer. I listened carefully to him and understood that he was in his stomach with the public side, the public interest. Now I hope that Mr Lintmeijer will see that the agreements made, the governance agreement with the VNG, the involvement of municipalities and the trust of the parties that are widely involved in this new legislation actually mean that they all have confidence in their feasibility and enforcement. We've been talking about the big cities for a while, but of course it's about many more municipalities. And in my introduction, I said something about that trust. Bottomline is that the municipality is and will remain competent. I really want to underline this in the direction of Mr Lintmeijer. Moreover, the new quality assurance system improves the position of the municipality. Because the municipality is competent and because the public interest is secured by the assessment in practice rather than on paper, the position of the municipality is strengthened. I hope that I will be able to take away Mr Lintmeijer's concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u45	A number of things in the covenant indeed strengthen the position of the municipality. The question remains, as far as we are concerned, why this is not simply regulated by the law. You could have taken more guarantees in that. Perhaps you will come to my second point of the criteria which will test whether it all works, all of which are very vaguely defined in terms of'sufficient' and that kind of quantification. Perhaps you will come to that, but that combination means that we still find it a shaky structure, with a faint pun.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u46	Look, the law regulates what the law should regulate. In the administrative agreement we have just agreed that we are going to do this with each other on the basis of that law and on the basis of a number of very clear points in the administrative agreement. That is, of course, also administrative to some extent. I wouldn't say that the structure is shaky. There is a very solid foundation underneath, namely that of a law and the Civil Code. That is the basis on which we can say together with the municipalities: yes, we are going to work on this and in practice we are going to make it work. I'll come back to that role of the municipality. Being a competent authority is not affected, so that will not be shaky. In this context, I would almost say: that is like a house.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u47	There is one of the most important points of my criticism: in the competent authority of municipalities. Because we are about to see that reports of quality assurance can come in if, for example, the Building Decision is not complied with. A municipality must therefore decide whether or not to maintain it. In the municipality's view, it may be futility or very big things that they may overlook. It is very difficult for the municipalities to appreciate all these reports. If there is a report that something is happening in violation of the existing Building Decision, does that mean that there will always be enforcement? Does this mean that the municipality must also have all the technical knowledge to be able to properly assess this? And aren't you trying to arrange that double-up, which actually means that there are double-costs for the construction consumer? Isn't that a very difficult system?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u48	My point would be that it is a better system than the current system, because Mr Van Hattem also knows that in the current system the municipal scrutiny takes place in advance on paper and that in the new system the quality assurance officer must indicate whether there is a problem on the basis of pre-established criteria. If so, he identifies the problem on which the municipality can maintain or adjust in practice at the construction site in consultation with those working there. That seems to me to be an improvement on the current situation. Should the municipality have all the precise knowledge available to the quality assurance authority? No, because she's just getting that knowledge from that quality assurance guy. The municipality must, of course, be able to take enforcement action.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u49	I think that's the problem. It is therefore important that the municipalities should already go to these construction sites. So they themselves should start using some kind of quality assurance agencies to do so. They need to get back into practice. That's actually what you're doing twice. On what basis should the municipality be able to make a proper assessment? Because that technical knowledge has to be back in the house. The departments of the municipalities are already failing. Then why would that suddenly improve? I hear the Minister constantly saying that this is an improvement in the position of the municipalities, but what really needs to be shown specifically that this position of the municipalities is going to improve in practice? Because I don't see that in the design of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u50	What I really do not understand is that Mr Van Hattem seems to prefer today's situation, in which the municipality only evaluates a paper shop, rather than the situation in the future, in which the capacity problem with quality testing has been solved because of the fact that quality assurance agencies and testers have that specific expertise. Afterwards, the municipalities will be able to adapt to the new situation, where they will also have a year and a half before they know what to ask for and where they will also know that, if there is a problem identified by the quality assurance officer, they will also be able to act. This is what the municipalities should be able to do, and this is what the new system is aimed at. That seems to me to be quite an improvement. If Mr Van Hattem prefers the current system, in which the paper test takes place, that is of course his right, but I do not quite understand it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u51	Finally, Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u52	Yeah, finally. It's in the point of being able. A municipality can perform, but can't perform. I am not saying that the present system is blissful. I am not saying that at all, but this bill is not the solution to the problems of the current system. That is why I say that you can now say that we are going to deal with it through these quality assurance agencies and that they can make notifications to the municipalities, but that it is not sufficiently clear what happens next in terms of legislation and measures they can take. There is also insufficient clarity about how such a municipal department should respond to this and whether it has sufficient quality, capacity and resources. So it's probably going to cause the necessary problems. I do not have sufficient confidence that it will be properly regulated in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u53	Before we all make a mistake of thinking, fees are cost-effective. For costs you don't make, you can't charge a fee. As a result, the reduction in tax revenue does not affect the municipalities, because they also have revenue in relation to what they have to cost. Again, the administrative agreement actually sees all these points. That is precisely what the municipalities say they have confidence in. The municipalities are also pleased that they still have time to set up their own organisation, as I have just said in the direction of Mr Pijlman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u54	I would like to ask the Minister whether it is possible, in her further argument, to compare the law and its intended effect with the existing law if it were to be implemented. For I notice that you always say in your comparison that it is better than under the present law, because it is not being implemented. That sounds like a crooked equation to me. Then I can argue that the new law is not going to be implemented either and that it is not better at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u55	First of all, I didn't say that. Mr Köhler may choose his own words; so do I. We all note that the current system does not seem to be working well enough because the quality of the construction and the quality of the system is inadequate. I would add one more argument, which is a very important argument for me. Building has become more complex and more complex. It is almost impossible for municipalities to have the knowledge that builders need, so just the technical knowledge. Today's buildings, which are now being delivered, are infinitely more complex, even in terms of technology, than older buildings. The current system is based on how it was built. The new system must focus on how it is now being built. So once again, the legislative proposal and the new system aim to ensure better quality and a better distribution of liability, but also enable municipalities to bring that very specific technical expertise, which they can reasonably no longer have at home, to that quality assurance provider. I think that's an improvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u56	At the risk of repeating a second-term debate, I do not understand why this particular technique could not be employed by the municipality itself or by cooperating municipalities. If it is really true that more specialist knowledge is needed for building supervision, can municipalities simply hire, hire, or hire on a case-by-case basis under the current law? Why should that only be possible along the detour of private quality assurance agencies?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u57	I do not think I have said that it can only be done on that route, but I do say that it is an improvement on the current situation. Together with municipalities, we find that they often lack that knowledge and expertise and have difficulty finding it. In fact, it's often impossible to find and hire those people. Therefore, municipalities should hire this capacity with routes through people working in companies or renting out as self-employed persons. In practice, therefore, there is simply a real bottleneck. We can solve that in the new system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u58	Mr. Van Hattem, I had just said "finally" at your third interruption. Not right now. We have now discussed this point in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u59	It's essential.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u60	Yeah, everything's essential, but I'd leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u61	I was still with Mr Lintmeijer's questions. We have just said a few things about the governance agreement. He had a few more questions about that, which I'm passing by briefly. He asked how, in consultation with the VNG, I can be sure that the entry into force is actually justified. We've written it down in the board agreement. It is, of course, also about other parties involved. We said we're gonna monitor that. The administrative agreement also states how we are going to do that and where we are going to do that. This means that, if there are any bottlenecks, I will see, in consultation with the parties, what measures might be needed. The criteria in the governance agreement indicate which topics should be considered in any case when monitoring and when implementing them. The administrative agreement also sets out criteria for assessing the success of the new pilot projects to be organised. So it's just a matter of keeping track. It's actually an administrative process, but it's important. So it is not so much a question of detailed quantitative criteria, I thought Mr Lintmeijer was asking for qualitative criteria, so that we can follow that implementation closely and so that we can always discuss with each other whether interim measures are necessary. All interested parties agree with this approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u62	That last one's nice, but that doesn't mean I agree with it. This is what this is all about. Criteria are set, but when we are satisfied with the functioning of the criteria, we remain very vague. I understand that the Minister cannot quantify it to the nearest decimal point, but you could also set qualitative targets. I do not see much of that in the agreement, and that does not give much guidance to say that we are satisfied. Perhaps you are satisfied when a municipality is not at all, or that a client says: if so... It doesn't give a clue: if we're going to evaluate, what exactly do we evaluate? When will we be satisfied? When do we give each other a 6 or a 6+?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u63	I would refer Mr Lintmeijer to the administrative agreement, but of course he has read it. It lays down the conditions for entry into force, which includes the joint approach, which includes implementation and support. There's a lot in it, but it ends with point 8, the evaluation. The evaluation shall include points 3, 3.1 to 3.4, "at least the following subjects shall be included in the evaluation." We've made pretty clear agreements about it. Based on the foundation of the new law and the practice that we will monitor together, I think that we need to find out experimentally what is acceptable and what is not acceptable. It's clear what we're focusing on. We are focusing on improving the quality of construction under the new system compared to the current system. We focus on the fact that it is workable for all parties. We focus on the fact that it is done cost-effectively. These are all terms contained in the governance agreement, which, in my view, provide a sufficient basis for monitoring what we agree with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u64	One more time: are we satisfied when it has become cheaper? Are we satisfied if the municipal supervisor on his own initiative has shut down a construction project three times per municipality? Are we satisfied if the information position of the municipality is not exclusively organised by the quality assurance agency or the client? Are we satisfied... I can make the list a little longer. You mention the issues, but not to what extent they should lead to satisfaction. I think that's too skinny.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u65	I regret that Mr Lintmeijer has already concluded this, because I think that we have correctly formulated the principles with each other. I am also prepared to inform Parliament about how we are going to proceed. But I think you should leave the room to find out what that is in practice and at the administrative level. How do you measure that the building quality has improved? If a municipality has had to intervene an x-number of times, is that good or bad? We don't know, because it's a new system. You can't compare it to the old system. In my view, the logical consequence of the introduction of a new system is that there must be a certain amount of room to determine, on the basis of the new situation, whether or not you are satisfied and whether it is developing in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u66	Finally, Mr. Lintmeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u67	We have a law here that leads to a fairly fundamental change in the quality assurance and monitoring methods. We have a bill on which the First Chamber makes complex considerations and many groups are not sure whether they will support it or not. Then I find what the Minister comes up with referring to her earlier texts, really lean. I see no gesture in the sense of: if I meet you in this way, we will get a little further. I keep saying that the Minister's argument on this point falls short of what we expect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u68	I shall make one more attempt, because I would regret it if Mr Lintmeijer would stick to that. He is concerned with the monitoring and the mid-term evaluation. I have just promised Mrs Vlietstra that she will regularly inform Parliament about the preparations. I could take into account how we are going to shape the monitoring and the mid-term review. Before the law enters into force, I am prepared to inform the Court of Justice of this, so that the Chamber can make a stand-alone judgment on it. Mr Lintmeijer will then be able to see on that basis whether his statement is true or whether my expectation is true and whether it is concrete enough in his view. Mr Lintmeijer also asked whether there was room in the proposal for sample quality checks by municipalities. This space is provided for in the new proposal, because the allocation of powers is defined in such a way as to enable the quality assurance authority to assess the quality of the building and the municipality to do what is necessary in order to take its enforcement decisions. If it is necessary from the point of view of enforcement, the municipality may carry out a check on the construction site.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u69	One interruption, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u70	Thank you, Mr President. I think that's the point. The minister says that the municipality can carry out this control, but at the same time notes that the municipalities lack technical knowledge and the right expertise to know enough about developments in construction. How can they effectively carry out quality checks and enforce them effectively if, in the opinion of the Minister himself, they lack expertise?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u71	That is actually a bit the same point Mr Van Hattem just asked about. In the new system, we have quality assurance staff with the technical expertise needed to assess whether or not there is a problem. They then report that to the municipality. On this basis, the municipality can enforce. So that's supplemental. That's not overlapping or double-up. One is technically assessing whether the quality is in order, the other is then given a judgment and can act on the basis of that judgment. Of course, this also happens with some technical expertise, but that is different from the technique required to assess the construction quality. A few more questions. Mr Lintmeijer talked about the learning capacity in the industry. That is indeed important. I also believe that learning capacity in the sector should be encouraged. We will. We are also doing this through the tightening of liability. I was just saying to Mr Van Hattem that the quality assurance officer should report the error early. In my view, this whole thing leads to the right stimulus. I am convinced that this also applies to the learning capacity in the industry, because this new situation will have to be changed and deal with differently. Mr. Lintmeijer also asked how the law prevents consumers and clients from being sent to the wall in case of errors within the chain of the cabinet. I think that was what he said. The contraaing authority shall have a contractual relationship with the contraaor. If the contractor chooses to engage third parties, he is responsible for the errors that those third parties might make. In that case, the contraaing authority may also appeal to the contraaor for the errors made by third parties, provided that they have been hired by the contraaor himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u72	I think I see a difference in the wording between what you wrote in the reply to the written questions from the CDA Group and what you are saying now and what is in the explanatory statement. It says that if the contractor is responsible for the hiring, he is responsible for the whole chain. In the answer to the written questions it seems to be nuanced, namely that you cannot always hold the contractor liable for what a third party has done. I'm just gonna find out which lecture is the brightest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u73	Whichever one is most clear, Mr. Lintmeijer himself must decide. What I just said is that the client has a contractual relationship with the contractor. If the contractor chooses to engage a third party, he shall be liable to the client for any errors of that third party. I do not think there is any light between what I am saying and what is in the written reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u74	That's just in accordance with the Civil Code, culpa in eligendo.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Finally, Mr Lintmeijer's question on monitoring. I have just made a commitment on monitoring. My suggestion is not only to report to the Chamber on progress, but also to really include a plan for monitoring, in the hope of meeting Mr Lintmeijer sufficiently on this point. Then I'm with the CDA's questions. I know that Mrs De Vries had a lot of questions before and that she has now added a number of questions to them, but I note that we really do agree on a number of points. We agree on the need to improve the quality of construction. We agree that the approval of the municipalities is necessary before we can move on to the new system. Hence the board agreement. We agree on the desired generic tightening of liability. And we also agree on the desire to carry out as many pilots as possible and also additional pilots. In other words, if I say 'doing nothing is not an option', it is to realize all the above points, which I know Mrs De Vries is very close to there. So that is a responsibility I feel and I now know that other parties, the VNG, but also other parties in the construction sector, are in favour of it. So let me pre-label this before I answer Mrs De Vries' questions. She suggested that if this law would not be passed now, use the interim period to create a new law. I really have to say that I think that this bill clearly sets out the responsibilities, rights and obligations. I think that taking another look at that does not lead to an even better record of that. That's why I just said, "Don't let the better become the enemy of good." The general framework is there. They will be completed in practice. There is case law and there will be case law. As is the case with every law, there is room and it must also be tested in practice. That leads to a legal practice. That's no different from this law. However, I do not think that putting the desire for better quality on the drawing board once again will lead to a better distribution of liability than the legislative proposal before us today, including, of course, the supplementary letter of June last year, the answer to the questions and the administrative agreement as it has been concluded.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u76	We were here a little over two years ago. Then your predecessor stood here. He said to us: the explanatory statement to Mr De Vries' amendments should not be too much to your liking; it is about the legislation itself. You have written a number of things in a letter, which you say I do not do in the legislation itself. Then there is the question: what is different from the explanatory statement accompanying the amendments? 'Cause it's totally against your answer. Then ask two, when it comes to capturing or not. In the Civil Code it is not unusual to lay down deadlines at all. For example, when I look at consumer purchases, it simply says: if you have noticed a defect, you have to report it in a competent time. And that "skillful time" is then interpreted as within two months of you finding it. And there's a two-year limitation period. We don't regulate the liability in this law at all; not with deadlines, nothing at all! So in that sense, you might as well make a clearer and better law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u77	A number of these questions have also been raised by Mrs De Vries in her third term. Let me begin with the amendments to which Mrs De Vries refers. In disputes concerning the interpretation of the provision in question, account should be taken of the intention of the legislator. That's the way it is, of course. Then we will look at what has been said in the Chambers. That's the history of law. That's how it works. In that letter of June 2018, I discussed in detail the scope of the amendments. That's what makes that letter part of the history of law. I noted in the written reply afterwards that this letter was able to overcome many of the concerns and uncertainties, and I also thought that it was the CDA and Mrs De Vries'. In other words, that explanation will be guiding the further elaboration. I am talking about the development of lower regulation and the elaboration of the provisions that provide a basis for that lower regulation. This is therefore the risk assessment to be attached to the application for the environmental permit, which must be attached to the dossier to be submitted to the competent authority when the building is completed. Let me answer Mrs De Vries' other questions. She also asked in her own term why there is no lower regulation of liability. That's because the rules of the Civil Code apply. And they're clear. There is therefore no reason to include this in lower legislation. There's actually no room for that either. If you wanted to lay down new rules on and under those rules, it would probably lead to new questions and uncertainty. So the rules of the Civil Code apply and are leading. Mrs De Vries also asked when and when the obligation of warning applies. The bill does not change the substance of the warning obligation. The bill adds a formal requirement. It must be written and it must be unambiguous. The client must warn against inaccuracies in the order and for defects in the client's business. The bill does not change the content of that obligation of warning.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u78	The Minister says the Civil Code is clear and clear. The Civil Code talks about reasonable deadlines and so on. We have changed the Civil Code with this law. So we could have changed that in a different way. Clearer and clearer. We didn't. That's a choice. But we could have done it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u79	Yes, but the question is what clarity Mrs De Vries would have liked to have in the Civil Code. It's changed now. Mrs De Vries also knows that in the Civil Code the deadlines vary according to the subject matter. It must therefore be a reasonable period of time. There is another legal term for which I am not ready right now, but it is about the reasonableness of the deadline. That's different. Of course, we also need to find out experimentally what a reasonable period is. But that's not unusual. So I would say that the rules of the Civil Code apply and in practice it will have to be demonstrated which deadlines are then considered reasonable. Mr. Chairman. That was the liability. Then there's the warning obligation. I think Mrs De Vries has also asked why this obligation of warning applies only to the contractor. When applying for the contract for the adoption of the work, the contractor is obliged to warn the client of inaccuracies. The contract shall be concluded between the contraaing authority and the contraaor. It is therefore logical that this obligation rests with the contractor, because that is the one who also brings about the final work. We've already talked about the deadlines. Mrs De Vries had a lot of questions. She also asked about the follow-up class. I think I just answered that question. I hope she agrees with that. It asked a number of questions about the system, about adjustments, about liability and about deadlines. I hope she will at least find the answers clear enough. I would like to convince her that the system is legally robust enough. That you can always differ in taste about whether it should have been just one more of this or one less of that, that is of course so. Perfect laws may not exist, but the system is legally robust and further developed in further regulation. The implementation and the like, that's another route that comes next. We still have time for that. We have time to make sure that works well. Mr. Chairman. Unless Mrs De Vries is still walking to the interrupting microphone, but I do not see any movement that way, I shall go on with the other questions that have been asked. That's some of them. For example, Ms Bikker of the Christian Union asked for the roadmap to follow up the report of the OVV on the parking garage Eindhoven. I think the bill fits in well with what the OVV in general had to say. In fact, I have also discussed this with the OVV because in fact the report of the OVV analyses shortcomings in the construction sector. With this there is a clear connection between what the OVV finds and the Quality Assurance for Building Act. The awareness of quality in the construction sector must therefore be increased. The system also emphasizes this: the quality of the construction that has been carried out. The recommendations of the OVV concern systematic risk management and the organisation of professional contradiction. They will be implemented in concrete terms with the legislative proposal, because that is precisely what the independent and expert quality assurance officer is going to do. It also strengthens the liability of the contractors. The bill provides a good basis for further work on improving building quality. When Mr Joustra says, of course, we have all heard that he is not in favour of private supervision, I think that makes sense. I have just said to Mr Lintmeijer that I would not want that either, because I am talking about strengthening the public system. Quality assurance agencies have a role to play in this, but it is a public system with the competent authority of the municipalities. All in all, this legislative proposal is therefore very much in line with what has been observed by the OVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u80	It is to be commended that the Minister is a little more optimistic than I am when I read the report by the OVV on the situation in Eindhoven. I do not yet have the road map for categories 2 and 3, which are heavier categories, at all. This bill is all the necessary questions from municipalities, especially at the same time as the Environment Act, with which we also ask the necessary questions of the municipalities. The Minister knows that like no other. That's the one. The other thing is that I had the impression that Mr Joustra was talking about this bill. How does the Minister experience that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u81	Rome wasn't built in one day either. I think I can say that after this weekend. I have already said to Mr Arrowman that I see that point. It has been chosen to start with the most simple and clear category, but I would also like to start with pilot projects with categories 2 and 3. I've already started talking about that. The National Real Estate Company already does pilot projects with this. Other parties are prepared to do so. So I see that point, but we have to realise that it will take time before we have a comprehensive system that also applies to the most complex categories. By the way, you often have to deal with the big, very professional parties, from whom you can expect this kind of quality requirements anyway. I believe that Mrs Bikker and I do not disagree on the content, but we must give ourselves time and give ourselves time to get there as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u82	But what time does the Minister want that to take place? Is it only a matter of time or is it also a question of investment? Then I think about money. Should municipalities contribute to this? I am therefore curious when the roadmap will be ready and how much money is needed for it, in addition to the time frame.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u83	I can't answer that right now. I can undertake to include these aspects in the letter I promised Mrs Fiers to keep you informed of progress. Mr. Chairman. I think I've answered most of the questions. When I browse through my questions, I see a few more floors and clarifications. I have not yet answered a question from the SP, which we have discussed in an interruption: the current law in relation to the new law. The most important point is that there is a reversal of the system: the builder has to prove that he complies with the law in practice and creates a structure that complies with the rules. I also think it is important that in the end we are primarily concerned with ensuring quality, that the builders themselves take care of that quality and that the quality assurance agencies are committed to improving quality. So it really is a strengthening, an anchoring of that quality in practice. This makes it possible for the municipality, which plays this important role, in its own organisation, to take this into account in its own capacity planning. The municipality can therefore be much more effective and targeted than in the current system. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to say one thing about time limits and liability, a little towards Mrs De Vries, who had a lot of questions and comments on this. The Civil Code already has deadlines that provide for the duration of liability. The new scheme does not relieve the client of his responsibility to protest to the contractor about defects within reasonable time limits. There are limitation periods. If the client does not take any action towards the contractor two years after his protest, the claim shall lapse. So the deadlines are not as fluid in that respect as they may seem in the debate. The time limit for complaints shall be within a reasonable period of time after its discovery and the limitation period shall apply: after two years the contractor shall no longer be liable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u84	I am making one last attempt, and I would like to give the Minister a little time for that. I'm sticking to the norm when it comes to those evaluation points. You rightly referred to paragraph 8 of the Covenant. I am not going to quote that, but there are a number of criteria, not exhaustively mentioned, but some. The votes are in three weeks' time. Could the Minister give us an indication of what the standards might look like when it comes to that evaluation? If we had that before the vote, it would be very helpful to consider my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u85	Mr President, you will understand that I would like to do everything in my power to allow Mr Lintmeijer to vote mildly. I will send the Chamber another piece of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u86	That is what Mr Lintmeijer asked for before the vote. It is important that it is there in good time, including the letter to Mrs Fiers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u87	The commitment to Mrs Fiers was about the implementation phase. Mr Lintmeijer's question means that I am sending a clear letter to the Chamber before the vote on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u88	That means no later than 10 May in the morning before noon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u89	I'd rather be two hours earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u90	Two hours earlier? That, too, is acceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u91	I just spoke from the benches, so I'm going to repeat it for the record. It would be useful if that were for the group meeting. That was my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u92	I was talking about Friday 10 May, at the latest 12 noon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u93	Oh, sorry, I got that wrong. I'm completely satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u94	Mr. Chairman. That was the end of my third term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u95	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-10.u96	I would ask, for the record, whether any of the Members would like to vote on this bill. I think I already know the answer. The answer is yes. I propose that the legislative proposal be voted on on 14 May. The Minister promised to have a letter delivered to the Chamber on 10 May before 12.00 p.m., as requested by Mr Lintmeijer. I shall suspend the sitting briefly, pending the return of Mrs Kiek and the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation.
