ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal Rules for the production of electricity using coal (35167), i.e. the Act on the Prohibition of Coal in Electricity Production. I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van der Linden.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. Last Thursday I was in the heart of our beautiful port in Rotterdam. There, in Rotterdam, the money is made, the money we spend here in The Hague. The cranes, the logistics, the ships: these impressive activities continue 24 hours a day. And for that, reliable energy is vital. I went to check out the Maasvlakte Power Plant 3, the MPP 3, which was put into operation in 2016. It's only been open for three years. The Netherlands had the least polluting coal power station in the world with the MPP 3. With a capacity of 1,100 megawatts at the time representing 7% of Dutch electricity demand, with a very high efficiency of 46%, where it was on average 30%, and with 25% less CO emissions compared to an average coal power plant. These port activities in Rotterdam, the impressive performance of this energy giant, should make us proud, but proud is a virtue that is under pressure in the current cultural discourse. Both the port and our traditional energy facilities are prey to a radical transformation obsession that is politically occurring. Today, a law is before us which forces the early closure of coal-fired power stations. Let the next thing get through to you. We in the Netherlands are therefore about to ban by law some of the most modern coal power stations in the world, which many other countries are jealous of. That's absurd. I have three main arguments, three reasons, against this law. One, we're gonna hit an economic slump. Two: the alternative, biomass, is even worse. Three: Legally, there's a smell about this law. I'd like to explain. We're gonna make an economic mistake. With regard to the world's most modern coal power plants, which have invested billions, the cabinet proposes to close them early, without taking advantage of the advantage of many years of extra cheap power from decommissioned power stations. I just heard the VVD spokesman on the radar station say that exchange of radar installations would be a huge capital destruction. I'm asking him what this is, when we're talking about capital destruction. The rest of the world is jealous of such a reliable and modern energy supply. They have much more polluting energy supplies, such as lignite and wood burning. In particular, they have many cheap coal plants, which are heavily polluting. The closure of coal-fired power stations is not on its own. Gas has also been banned by this cabinet. Dutch households need to get rid of the gas. Reliable affordable energy makes way for unreliable energy from the sun and the wind thanks to the policy of this cabinet. A second economic point. The Dutch government has made enormous efforts in the recent past under Minister Brinkhorst of D66 to realize these modern and efficient coal power plants in the Netherlands, with success. But now investors and companies are faced with legislation on early closure, well before the end of economic life. The Forum for Democracy concludes that this law makes the Netherlands less reliable and less attractive to nuclear investors. After all, how the government acts here in relation to coal power plants, an investor in nuclear energy scratches three times behind the ears.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u4	I share the pride of our port companies, including the energy sector. I have worked there for four years, at a time when I worked at the Transport Association FNV, just as Mr Rosenmöller, incidentally, is not present. We ended strikes there together, I'll say. I don't know who started it anymore, but we ended the strikes. I was always very impressed with those huge cranes. They have grab cranes that don't even fit in this room; as big as a single-family house. They take a matchbox off the edge of the ship: so much craftsmanship is there. I'm proud of that. But I'm also proud that people understand that we're going to a sustainable economy. We are getting very different jobs, much more jobs, and Europe is going to help us. Can't you share the pride of the innovations we're implementing? Then there is the second question. Kodak once thought: that never works with those pixels and those devices. They have simply made an error of assessment, because the market, technological development and cost reductions have killed Kodak. That is also the case here. That's entrepreneurial risk. Of course, previous Cabinets sometimes wanted coal power stations, but they have not committed themselves to corporate risks. They're for the entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u5	As for that first question, am I proud of that innovation? The story about the ports is very appealing to me. You're proud of it. I've seen it, too. I think it's not just a single-family house, but some are as big as an apartment building. Proud of that innovation? Of course. Only, the remodelling of state-of-the-art coal power stations that the world is jealous of, replacing them with windmills and solar panels is not progressing. That's going backwards, and that's not something to be proud of. Of course we are proud of innovation, but we choose nuclear energy and its successors. That is the first point. The second point concerns business risk. Of course you run risks as a company, but here the revolution is going very fast. The investors were convinced at the time to invest here in power stations. Now they have to shut down their power station without real alternatives. I'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u6	Finally, Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u7	Let me say a few words about that first point. You can't say I want both. You didn't say anything about being proud of renewable energy. I'm glad you said that now. That's a whole new industry now. But you cannot place new capacity on top of the existing capacity. One comes instead of the other, because we already have too much capacity. You have to choose either the old or the new.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u8	Yes, and our choice is very clear: for nuclear energy, its successors and thorium, and not for sun and wind, because that is decline.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u9	That's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u10	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u11	We believe, once again, that this law drastically reduces the risk of an investor in nuclear energy, and it has not been a storm. Can the Minister, who is known as a member of the fan club for nuclear energy, indicate whether he agrees with us? The second argument: the alternative, biomass, is worse. The closure of coal power stations is part of a broader climate policy that the Forum for Democracy is opposed to, as you know. Less disastrous climate policy was one of the spearheads of our election campaign. But at that point, I don't think we'll find each other in this Chamber today. This law contains one element on which we believe we can find each other in this house, namely the aversion to biomass: the cutting of trees in the Netherlands, Estonia, Canada and the United States to transport them in fuel oil ships to the Netherlands and burn them here. Martijn Katan wrote a good piece about it in NRC this week. He noted finely that if we want to use wood waste, which is renewable biomass, to replace the coal, a forest the size of five times Estonia is needed to run only our four coal plants. We have asked the Minister about the future perspective of biomass. The Minister states that many plants are currently being built and converted for biomass. Following our questions, it was indicated that the PBL has calculated that the global tilt point will be reached by 2030. That year there is more demand for trees than supply of trees. So if we continue with this biomass, then there will be structural balding, deforestation. We conclude: do not start. That year 2030 is also important for another reason. We recently received the Climate and Energy exploration, the KEV, and we discussed these two weeks ago in this house with the author, the PBL. In this KEV, the CO emissions of the Netherlands make a big diving flight after 2030. According to the models, the Netherlands then makes a big climate breaker in one go. That's what the PBL said, because the last coal power stations shut down by this law. But that is, if biomass continues, an illusion. That biomass would be better for the environment and climate is fake news. Biomass plants emit as much or even more CO2 and particulate matter as coal plants, at the expense of forests.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u12	I hear Mr Van der Linden equate biomass with the burning of wood. Does he mean to say that or is he looking at biomass a little more diversely?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u13	We have, of course, had a letter from the Minister about subsidies which also come from other streams, from sludge or from waste disposal. The question is whether these forms of biomass are better for the environment or not. We don't think so. But two, the coal plants where the fuel now needs to be replaced by biomass, are huge, and this is happening all over the world. This means that it will not be possible with this sustainable form of biomass. You can't use thin wood to fill and run such large power stations. There's just not enough raw material for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u14	I think it would be good if Mr van der Linden kept these two things apart, because there is also clean biomass, albeit it is little. I understand the question to the Minister that at some point it may be up to us to put it all in those coal plants and whether what we are going to burn is worse than coal. Stopping biomass altogether would also mean throwing away those clean forms. Shouldn't you look more closely at, for example, the lifting of subsidies on biomass so that you remove that perverse incentive for the wrong biomass? How does Mr Van der Linden feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u15	That's a point where we can find each other blindly. As a result of the motion, we have already spoken about stopping subsidies on biomass. That's what we're all for, absolutely. Mr. Chairman. What if the owners of the coal plants actually all switch to biomass; that they go into supply? Then there are no climate gains and no environmental gains and we are contributing to massive tree hoods; that is our belief. It has now become known that 80% of the pellets in our biomass plants are made from trees that would not otherwise be cut. That's what got out this week. The CO emissions of this biomass therefore lead to an increase in emissions. The fact that the tree may fall or rot in 50 years' time does not affect current CO emissions. If a new tree is going to include CO in its future life, it will take at least decades before that equals those emissions. We believe that this is at odds with the urgency that is being preached and expressed in the implementation of the Paris Agreement. This is, even if you pursue climate policy, a deterioration. In our opinion, it's not climate change, it's climate change. We therefore consider that large-scale biomass would be sustainable to be one of the crooked arguments of all international climate agreements. Those who love intensive climate policy are also fooled. I asked the Minister to make a comparison between CO emissions from coal plants and those from plants converted to biomass in order to calculate the savings. The Minister's answer was that the savings are 100%. All CO emissions from coal are climate gains, because, for example, biomass emissions, even if they are, do not count. That is the international agreement. So the emissions are there, it's just coming out of the chimney, but it doesn't count. Question to the Minister: what would he say if all owners decided to switch to 100% biomass? Is the cabinet satisfied? Mr. Chairman. Our conclusion is that climate gains, if you are already working on them, when converting to biomass only take place on paper, not in practice or otherwise at least after 2050. All parties in this house should not accept this. Biomass is a worse alternative to coal. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the third point that is closely linked to the second point, namely that there is a legal smell in this law. The Minister wants to force the closure of coal power stations by this law, but it cannot legally be called a closure law. The reason is quite simple: a closure law costs the cabinet money, because then the minister has to buy out the owners and compensate them. And climate policy is already so priceless. Therefore, the entire explanatory memorandum to that law is a great legal vocabulary game in order not to call this closure law a closure law. The whole explanatory statement seems to be written mainly to avoid a claim for damages. An important argument put forward by the Minister is that there are opportunities for alternative exploitation. The coal plants can be converted into alternative fuel power plants. That is technically possible and the Minister also considers it economically feasible. We believe this in part. That it's technically possible, I'm sure. It will also be technically possible to turn it into an amusement park, but we have doubts about its economic viability. Above all, this is not relevant, because, as far as we are concerned, conversion to biomass is politically undesirable. We do not want it; the idealists do not want it, but neither do the realists. Besides biomass, the Minister mentions other alternatives such as renewable gases, ammonia, waste, iron powder, hydrogen. These alternatives may seem attractive in some respects, but they are still completely unrealistic at the moment. First of all, in terms of technical feasibility, many of these techniques are only in their infancy, let alone economically feasible. Even in ten years, we do not think that is realistic.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u16	According to Mr Van der Linden, these alternatives are not feasible. At the beginning of his speech he pointed out that nuclear power or thorium is. May I just point out that thorium is still completely hidden in the future? The investigation was shut down in the 1960s for military reasons. I would also like you to reflect on the construction of the new nuclear power station in Britain. Ten years behind schedule, massive subsidies and an electricity price to be guaranteed by the government and much higher than the market price because the plant cannot operate otherwise What is the alternative to the Forum for Democracy worth to us?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u17	Firstly, thorium. It's gonna take a while to get there, too. We are in favour of using it because we do not live under the pressure that there is now urgency to do things. There is also a time horizon to work on a reliable innovative energy supply. We also support this, including other forms that I have just mentioned. We do not feel hampered by the pressure that we have to pursue until 2030 or even faster certain figures. We see it differently. We are certainly in favour of innovation and the alternatives I have just mentioned, but we do not feel that time pressure. We do not think it is real that this alternative is now being used in the legislation. That's the first point. Then there is the second point you mentioned: nuclear power and look at Britain. Nuclear energy, of course, has an important plus and that is that it is reliable. It lasts a very long time and it is a reliable, long-term, intensive energy supply that takes up very little space. Nuclear energy simply has many advantages over windmills and solar panels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u18	Yes, except that it is a much bigger subsidy than wind and sun at the moment, and that should appeal to your party. But back up, do you think a signature under a treaty is worth something? 2030, 2050, Paris, it's being discussed in Madrid today. Or is such an autograph worth nothing to the Forum?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u19	A signature is certainly worth something for the Forum for Democracy, but surely we should have a different political view on the climate plans of this cabinet. I am making arguments for this, and we will do so in the years to come. I have already said in my speech that we probably do not agree on this today, but I hope that we will agree on the aversion to biomass.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u20	If that signature is worth anything, then Mr Van der Linden says that he supports the objective of reducing CO emissions, only he wants to do so through nuclear energy. Is he aware that nuclear energy produces so much CO emissions in mining and mining that it is actually a very polluting form of energy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u21	That's a bit of a weird line of reasoning. I say that a signature for the Forum for Democracy is worth something, but that we are fighting against these agreements and the urgency of climate policy. The fact that a signature is worth something to us when we sign a contract does not mean that we agree with the measures of the Paris Agreement. That seems obvious to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u22	That's two different things. Does he agree with the measures of the Paris Agreement? Or does he say, "No, we must indeed ensure that there is a reduction in CO"? I think I heard him say: we want this CO reduction too, we only opt for other measures, namely nuclear energy. I would point out to him that nuclear energy is a very polluting form of energy, because it releases a huge amount of CO when uranium is extracted. How does he then judge nuclear energy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u23	Yes, the fact that uranium is being extracted from CO is absolutely true. But that is also when mining raw materials that are the basis for windmills and solar panels. It's all true, but it lasts a lot longer. And a very important argument, it's more reliable. We do not share this obsession with CO reduction politically.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u24	Mrs. Gerkens, your third?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u25	I have to conclude that it is indeed true that CO is also released when the substances used to build the windmills are being mined. However, nuclear energy is far, far worse. So it's not a clean form of energy. It would be good if Mr Van der Linden were aware of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u26	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u27	That's what I'm gonna do, Mr. Chairman. Besides biomass, I mentioned the alternatives I was just talking about. As far as the technical feasibility is concerned, many of these techniques are in their infancy and we really have our doubts about them in business. Our conclusion is that biomass is undesirable and therefore waste, and that alternatives are not real. I would like to hear from the Minister how he sees this given, if this House agrees, legally now. Suppose biomass falls today, because we are once again voting politically on it by a majority, can the Minister indicate if there are no realistic alternatives to these coal power stations, what is the legal consequence of that for the law before us? Finally, Mr President. I have argued that we disagree with this law because we believe that we are making an economic mistake, because we consider biomass to be worse as an alternative and because there is a legal smell in this law. I started my contribution with a visit to the port of Rotterdam. It blew quite hard that Thursday afternoon, but at a few steps from that state-of-the-art MPP-3 coal power station stood a row of wind turbines that afternoon silent. The contrast between reliable and unreliable energy was clear at a glance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u28	Thank you, Mr. Van der Linden. Mrs Teunissen has the floor on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u29	Mr. Chairman. A coalition of non-cooperatives is having a hard time because the cabbage and the goat need to be spared. That doesn't always satisfy voters, to put it mildly. Goat paths and mouse holes can sometimes offer a way out, but it is better to use structural policy changes in which animals, nature and the environment are given a full place, alongside humans, who, after all, represent only 0.01% of life on earth but behaves as a ruler. Mr. Chairman. At least today we can agree on one thing. There must be a ban on the use of coal for electricity. This will reduce the use of a polluting fossil fuel, provided that we do not replace it with the much dirtier biomass, for which forests are also being cut down and nitrogen, fine dust and greenhouse gas emissions increase by 20%. The central question for my group is how the transition towards sustainable electricity supply will be made when these power stations are closed. A strategy for a truly CO-neutral electricity supply is lacking, so it is very doubtful whether the objective of this bill, a significant reduction in Dutch CO emissions as formulated in the explanatory memorandum, is being achieved. That is why my group wants clarification from the Minister in particular today. Now get rid of those smokescreens. It starts with the question of whether biomass is CO-neutral. From 2009 onwards, the EU identified biomass as climate-neutral. After all, trees and plants that are produced as biomass can grow back and absorb CO, the reasoning was. Anyone who burns biomass must plant new trees, is the international agreement. And with that, climate accounting seems to be in order. The Netherlands and the EU need to report biomass emissions, but do not have to include them in their CO-emissions. Biomass counts as CO-neutral. There is a discrepancy here between the agreed paper reality and reality. D66 spokesperson energy and climate Sienot in the Lower House says about the cabinet position: "You can agree that poop doesn't stink, but your nose knows better." He is throwing the bat into the biomass plant and the question is whether his colleagues in this house follow him there. If you cut down a tree, there's not a new one. It may take decades or even centuries for new trees to grow far enough to absorb the carbon dioxide emitted by biomass. If you let the tree stand, he'd just continue to record CO. That thought is lacking in all the environmental sums of the biomass lobby. Early this year, the #EASAC scientists demanded recognition for the long time scale on which woody biomass grows back. In September 190 forest scientists expressed their grave concern in a letter to European directors. Biomass is not carbon-neutral at all, they say. And last week 35 forest protection organisations from the United States and Estonia sent a letter to the Chamber stating that there is "mass forest cover" there and calling on the Netherlands to stop subsidies on biomass immediately. Wood burns less efficiently than coal and gas, and for the same amount of electricity, the wood pellets will soon emit 95% more CO2 than gas during combustion in the Amercentrale, and 15% more than coal. The most polluting fossil fuel in the Netherlands so far. But that's not the end of it. There are many forms of biomass and many have undesirable effects. These effects deny a tunnel vision and lead to much bigger problems in the long term, problems that are passed on to subsequent generations. Biofuels from palm oil sustain the palm industry and are at the expense of the rainforest. Biofuels from maize create undesirable competition with food crops. Fertilisers bind us to a much too large herd. And woody biomass makes us complicit in massive logging in the Netherlands, Canada, the United States and Estonia. And yet, in response to our questions, the Minister has asked that biomass be climate neutral as a concept of a cycle where CO from the air is absorbed in the growth phase, after which the same CO weather is released from energy generation. Does the Minister recognise that woody biomass is not CO-neutral in the next 30 years at least? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the fog around the origin of biomass. For opponents say that there is a huge forest cover, it should be clear that the Animal Party is also opposed to biomass, and those who support biomass say that these are so-called residual flows. Biochemist and emeritus professor at VU Martijn Katan shows in the Volkskrant that the largest wood pellets producers Enviva and Granuon process whole trees in the pellets. He states that the only way to produce enough pellets is to massively cut down trees. According to him, producers can continue to claim that there are residual flows by cutting a forest, removing a few straight trees for sawwood and labeling the rest as residual wood. This can only be a business case because of our subsidies to biomass. Mr. Chairman. If this is the origin of the wood pellets in the Netherlands, then the Netherlands contributes to large-scale destruction of forests and subsidises climate change. So I'd like to hear from the Minister: What are these so-called residual flows? Is forest cover stimulated by large-scale demand? And then it becomes the subject of greenwashing? I'd like a response. I'm considering a motion on this point. In its response to the opinion of the Council of State, the government states that it has no idea of the availability of biomass: "Because biomass is considered for many applications and supply cannot grow indefinitely, it is expected that scarcity will occur in the long term. Global demand for biomass is growing rapidly and the Netherlands is already one of the largest users in the world, while hundreds of small biomass plants are still planned." Why didn't the government map the availability of biomass before starting to grant it at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u30	A few weeks ago, we adopted a motion by Mr Koffeman stating that biomass is not black and white. This is a bit of my interpretation, but that's what the motion says. The point is, it's well-certified. I often make the comparison with palm oil. Do you agree if there are well-certified labels for woody biomass? We're not talking about the other forms. Then all the holes are closed. I agreed with Mr Katan's report, but this is the only point he does not agree with. He just says that labels don't work, but then it ends in life. We must be able to rely on good quality marks. The Netherlands has the strongest quality marks. They are also viewed by the PBL. Let's take ourselves as First Chamber seriously. We put in a motion to wait for that. Now we catch up with each other within a few weeks with new motions and new stories instead of taking our own policies seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u31	The use of biomass is currently a reality. The hood of forests is now taking place. Of course, we want to wait for the sustainability framework and see what proposals for certification are in it. We're looking forward to that. However, there is already certification at the moment, but at the same time you can see that in practice it is impossible to check exactly what such a certificate is worth. So no, my group does not just support it when there is a certificate. We only support forms of biomass if it is shown that there is no damage to the environment, if it does not lead to shortages and if it does not lead to more emissions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u32	My question was a little more specific. The Netherlands has the sharpest quality mark. Perhaps it should be tightened on the basis of the PBL studies. That's why we supported your motion. We want to see if it's good enough. As long as it's there, you have to trust it to work. There's no indication it's different yet. Of course, I am also waiting for the Minister's answer. Otherwise, you'll keep catching up and we won't take our own motion seriously as First Chamber. We tabled this motion two weeks ago for a reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u33	It's two different things. On the one hand, it is about stopping subsidies for biomass. We shouldn't extend it. That's what the Party for Animals motion is about. Of course we are waiting for that. In addition, it is a certificate. It is said that we must trust such a certificate. It's not a question of trust at all. The cabinet has indicated that it is currently meeting the strictest international requirements. Those strictest international requirements do not exclude the possibility of using trees for biomass. My group is opposed to this. Mr. Chairman. I will continue my speech. I was talking about the availability of biomass. We actually have no idea how much biomass is available and whether we have enough to feed those biomass plants. My question to the Minister is why the cabinet did not map the availability of biomass before the grant was even started. Does the Minister share the concerns of the Planning Office for the Environment when it comes to the availability of wood, not only now, but also in the future? What happens if other countries also switch to wood as a fuel? This is already happening on a large scale. How does the Minister prevent this result in the large-scale logging of forests in the Netherlands and elsewhere? If the Minister wants renewable biomass to be present, then we need to check where that biomass comes from. Large-scale forest cover should in any case be excluded. However, the strict demands made by the European Commission, according to the Minister, do not preclude the logging of forests at all, as I have just said. Does the Minister share this conclusion? The question is also whether trees are being planted again and how they are being controlled. It is known, for example, that there is a large-scale bald cap in the US. What exactly is being planted in return? Is this being checked? Maybe crops are being grown for economic reasons or farm sites are being built. If new trees are planted, it takes 30 to 100 years for them to capture the same amount of CO as the cut-off tree. In this case, CO emissions will continue to advance an uncertain future in times of the climate crisis until at least 2050. Mr. Chairman. Resuming. Woodburn can therefore never be a successor or substitute of coal if the goal is to reduce CO. The large-scale combustion of coal has had disastrous effects on the climate and the burning of wood will only exacerbate these problems, not only in terms of increasing CO in the atmosphere, i.e. the accelerated climate crisis, but also through the ecological disruption that would result from the forest cover for our furnaces. That is why I have two further questions to ask the Minister. Is the Minister sticking to the paper reality in which biomass plants are regarded as sustainable or is he turning into an action plan? Is he going to point out at the climate summit that biomass has wrongly been given the predicate climate neutral? Is he going to make an effort to ensure that CO is actually reduced? My second question. Can the Minister come up with a comprehensive policy that excludes the use of trees as biomass? My group looks forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u34	Mrs Teunissen was very concerned with the use of wood. A large part of our stories about biomass are similar. I have a question about other forms of biomass, such as biomass from port lib or waste incineration. If the coal-fired power stations are converted into coal-fired power stations, does it think that this is an improvement? Is that even sustainable?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u35	No, because many forms of biomass create a lock-in. They keep us dependent on the fossil industry for longer. We have no problem with the use of waste on a small scale. I'm not talking about a business case that makes us dependent on that garbage. If it really is waste or sludge and you can use it on a small scale, my group is certainly prepared to look at it. However, the large-scale incineration of waste maintains the entire waste industry. The bio-industry is also maintained by the use of residues such as manure. So it maintains the system. We need to move towards a sustainable system, a circular system. Many forms of biomass do not fit in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u36	Mrs Teunissen made a clear statement on biomass. I am still looking for a solution for the coal power stations. They must continue to generate electricity instead of using biomass. If that is not the case, how can we meet the electricity supply? We are talking about a quarter of the electricity supply in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u37	It is good to say something about the context. The Party for Animals has been against biomass since the Energy Agreement was concluded in 2013. She says that we need to focus on other forms, on real renewable energy. I call geothermal and hydrogen. You'll have a constant supply of electricity. In addition, you have natural wind and sun. It's been a long time. There has been a very large lobby and eventually biomass has been chosen. That is a huge delay which we cannot afford at all. Let's move on to the situation. The Animal Party says that we want to close these coal plants, but this must be done carefully on the basis of an alternative plan. The subsidies on biomass must at least stop. It's gotta be over with that forest hood. In addition, geothermal, hydrogen, wind and sun must be used. Possibly, as a transition fuel, you can still look at gas. You don't have to build a new infrastructure, but you can use the existing infrastructure to allow gas during the transition.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u38	Thank you, Mrs Teunissen. Mrs Faber-van de Klashorst has the floor on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The current proposal for a ban on coal in electricity production stems from the great green deception. The Western man with his consumer behavior would be responsible for global warming and would drag everyone into misery in his desire for prosperity. Armed with the Paris Climate Agreement, the left-wing political elite has used an instrument to chastise the rich, especially western man. Apparently, life is still suffering. Mr. Chairman. The political elite have invented that the accepted global warming is caused by greenhouse gases. A small proportion of these greenhouse gases consists of CO and CO equivalents. For convenience, I place it under the same heading as CO during my speech. Man would emit too much CO2 and thus contribute to global warming. This government is involved in this nonsense and has set itself the goal of a global reduction of global warming to 1.5oC. This should be achieved by reducing CO2 emissions as quickly as possible. The Netherlands is in the lead again. Mr. Chairman. If you think the European Commission is bad, this cabinet is worse. They want to force us to reduce by 49%, while the European Commission goes for 40%. For the purpose of this, I would like to use the Minister's words to prevent climate change. Well, the only thing being disrupted is our prosperity, which is deliberately put at a disadvantage with the insane goal of 49% CO reduction. But of course, Rutte III was able to deliver the new climate pope Frans Timmermans. It's just what you care about. Mr. Chairman. You might ask yourself who the cabinet is actually for. At least not for the Dutch citizen, because he can pay himself fur and blue and then sit down in his climate-neutral home in a while. Nor for the Dutch business community, which creates real jobs and not subsidised fake jobs. For example, the Rotterdam Harbour Company calculated that some 2 billion in investments in chemistry are already missing our noses. And it gets worse. Chemical companies avoid the port of Rotterdam with the main cause: climate requirements. They descend to the port of Antwerp, which is about 100 kilometers away. The destruction of our chemical industry with a turnover of 50 billion a year and 44,000 employees is triggered by the green inquisition with the VVD in the lead. It's like they've become a mess. Mr. Chairman. The NGO Climate Analytics supported by subsidies indicates in a report that, if we want to comply with the Paris Agreement, coal within the European Union should no longer be used for electricity generation in 2030. No surprising outcome when you realize that this NGO is embedded in the network of the United Nations and the European Union. The result is that the five remaining coal plants in the Netherlands must be decarbonised. One of them ends up in the junkyard next year. The bizarre thing is that hundreds of new coal plants are being built worldwide. Mr. Chairman. The remaining four coal-fired power stations still have a delay of execution, as long as they co-incinerate biomass. While the land is locked by the Natura 2000 sites, we are only going to demolish and fire the forests subsidised. As a result, the absorption of CO is reduced and CO emissions increased. Then wood burns even less efficiently than coal and emits even more CO. Can you still follow it? It gets weirder. At UN and EU level, international agreements have just been made that indicate that biomass should be considered as CO-neutral. Would they really believe in their own nonsense? If it were really about CO reduction, they wouldn't really stimulate the burning down of biomass, provided you walk around with mills. If the high-ranking gentlemen and ladies make a deal, it's obviously true. The Minister will go along with this. In its letter of 21 January 2019, he states that wood stink can rightly be considered as CO-neutral because the emissions from combustion are equal to what the vegetation absorbed from the air during growth, regardless of the energy intensity of the biomass. But why doesn't that apply to coal? Coal consists of deposits of plant residues formed in the past. It all smells like randomness. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Remarkable is that the IPCC, the leading beacon for the left-green Netherlands, has recently recognised that it is unlikely that only human CO emissions will cause global warming. The most important, almost only cause of climate change is the sun. We as humanity have no influence on that. Let it be known to you, this proclaims the IPCC, which is associated with the United Nations, the same United Nations that was at the root of the Paris Agreement. On the one hand, we are led to believe that CO emissions need to be drastically reduced, and on the other hand, the same organisation says that human beings have a negligible impact on climate change. Now that the IPCC itself indicates that reducing CO makes no sense, this is an excellent opportunity to dump the Climate Agreement as soon as possible. The Minister can pull the plug from the Paris Agreement, because Frans Timmermans is already sitting on his coveted chair. The question to the Minister is: why is this cabinet continuing with this nonsense? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Then we are equal to those claims that are hanging over the Dutch taxpayer's head. The German owners of the coal power stations in the Eemshaven and the Second Maasvlakte are fierce. At that time, D66 Minister Brinkhorst, who, during the Balkenende II cabinet, waved the scepter on Economic Affairs, asked them to build coal power stations in order to promote our competitiveness. And the current D66 group chairman, Jetten, is proud to stand up with his thumbs up when closing the Hemwegcentrale. What a show! I'd like to comment on Mr Crone, who was talking about corporate risk. In fact, we can conclude from this that, firstly, the Balkenende II cabinet was unreliable and, secondly, the associated minister of D66 was unreliable, for he tempted the people to build a coal power plant and then shut it down by his own party. How are you supposed to do in this country? We're gonna have to pay for all this shit. The German lawyers are working on a claim that could reach several billions. Vattenfall is also counting on compensation for the closure of the Hemwegcentrale. What the American investor Riverstone, who took over a coal power station on the Maasvlakte, has in store for us, although for a crate, of the French Engie, is still unclear. The fact that the Ministry considers any claims realistic is demonstrated by the fact that it reserves annual budget for the necessary hiring of external legal advice and assistance in legal proceedings. How high is this reservation? How much is in the pot? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The coal ban will lead to a gross CO reduction in the Netherlands of 18 megatons in 2030. The net CO reduction is much lower: about 8 megatons. More than half of them are leaking into the European electricity market, with which the Netherlands is closely linked. For example, the lignite plants in Germany can thrive and provide the Netherlands with brown electricity, so to speak. After all, the Netherlands is strongly linked to the German electricity market. Our coal plants must close down and the corresponding jobs will be destroyed. That's how we go from coal to lignite. This brown stream can just flow up the Dutch net. After all, we have free movement of goods. The question to the Minister is therefore whether this observation is correct. Does this also apply to gas, so that Dutch households do not have to be cut off from gas at all? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. It is not about COhet at all about climate change, it is about cultural change, it is about distribution of wealth, it is about loss of freedom, it is about control over society. Our way of life, our prosperity, depends on cheap energy. By switching to inefficient energy generation, our production becomes more inefficient and this involves loss of prosperity. The Paris Climate Agreement has nothing to do with science, but with an extremely left-wing ideology of sharing together and poor together. This bill contributes to the destruction of prosperity in the Netherlands, thanks to the VVD, the CDA, D66, the Christian Union and all their left-wing green doers with GroenLinks in the vanguard. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u40	First of all, I am genuinely curious about Mrs Faber's specific source when it comes to the IPCC. She says that the IPCC has claimed that human beings have virtually no influence on the climate, while we have seen a lot of reports coming by showing that the evidence is stacking up on the fact that human influence is very great. Maybe she can let me know. If Mrs Faber does take the IPCC seriously, I ask her the following. The IPCC has calculated that if we do nothing about climate change now, it will cost us €350 per tonne of CO emitted worldwide. Just for the idea: in 2018 we emit 163 million tonnes of CO2. So these costs are going to be huge. My question to Mrs Faber is how she will prevent us from burdening the citizens with enormous costs if we do nothing, as she wishes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u41	First of all, the source is being asked. This can be read on page 7 of the Summary for Policymakers published by the IPCC in January 2009. Then ask me if I take the IPCC seriously. Look, it's not my club; it's your club and the club of your left-wing cronies who all want to impose that climate crap on us. Of course, I can tell you what the IPCC wrote here. On the one hand, as I said in my speech, they say that the CO reduction must be achieved. On the other hand, they say that the sun is the biggest cause that we have no influence on at all. Then we'll have to go back to base. We can come up with a report sister and a report like this, but the base is CO. Is CO really such a problem? I don't think so. CO is a raw material and at the moment we would no longer have CO, we are all no longer here. It's all being grossly exaggerated. Yes, I see the colleague of the PvdA laughing a bit. I also have to laugh a little about those crazy legislative proposals that come by here with that CO reduction. So in that respect, we can find each other, but I think you're laughing at something else. I think you should go back to base CO. Do we have an impact on global warming? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u42	I'm genuinely curious. I'm gonna take a look at that report. So it dates back to 2009?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u43	Not from 2009, but from 2019. January 2019, page 7.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u44	I am going to look at that, but I note that Mrs Faber says: CO is not a problem, because that is what I think. In my opinion, climate scientists worldwide know better if CO is a problem than Mrs Faber, if I may say so with all due respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u45	Thank you. There's no question. A brief closing sigh?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u46	Thank you. Everyone knows from history: Galileo said the earth was round. He was beaten up, thrown in jail, and I don't know what happened to that guy. If 100 people say something and one says something else, it doesn't mean that one is wrong. I would like to give this message as a closing point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u47	Thank you, Mrs Faber. I call Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u48	Mr. Chairman. Any conversation about climate and, in fact, about the temperature on earth and its consequences, is burdened with clashing emotions and interests. One wants strict measures to save the earth, the other fears an oppressive ecodictatorship. Alarmists and skeptics face each other. This creates a contradiction in which the alarmists claim that the discussion is already over because they are right. The people of GO are realists and therefore look mainly at the facts. What is immediately striking for people who have looked at some knowledge about the climate and the past is the simplification that is currently taking place in the debate. The focus is only on CO, while the fluctuations in temperature in reality are part of a complicated climate process that we do not know about and that we can never fully understand with certainty, let alone control. Because of this simplification in the debate and the one-sided focus on CO, with a lot of media violence, the view that the future of the earth now depends on it has been dashed. In the EU, too, the pace is increasing. The CO reduction targets are constantly being increased. In 30 years' time, the EU must be climate neutral, as it is called. Now the reality is that CO emissions from EU countries are less than 10% of the world's total and that this percentage is likely to fall even further in the future. We also see that many countries pay lip service to the Paris Agreement, but do not or hardly translate those words into deeds. The US, Russia, India, China and many other countries may be on paper, but they are not actually participating. China is going to build hundreds of coal-fired power stations for electricity alone over the next decade, while we are going to close four coal-fired power stations here if it is up to Minister Wiebes. If ambition is achieved in the EU, it will be virtually useless in practice worldwide. It's like we're depositing a bucket of water in the Atlantic Ocean. The whole operation is going to be an astronomical waste of money. If we look at the measures envisaged, such as the burning of biomass, then the question arises as to whether the people who are turning the political buttons still know what they are doing. 60-year-old trees that supply the earth with oxygen are massively processed into wood pellets to be lit up in power plants. Madness! Because of the ridiculous billions of subsidies on biomass, the price of wood is greatly increased, which means that many more trees are being cut down. If we want to burn our current four Dutch coal plants only on wood, you need a forest that is five times the size of the Netherlands. Madness! What does GO want? GO is for a cleaner world, for ending and reducing the burning of fossil raw materials in the long term. They are not sustainable and they run out once, but we also need to conserve them because these raw materials are of great value to the chemical industry, for example. With windmills and solar panels, we are far from being able to replace them and they also take up a lot of space. As we know, windmills also cause a lot of nuisance, bird mortality and problems for radar installations, as we heard last night and this morning. It is only with nuclear energy that a sustainable energy policy is possible. Worldwide, therefore, the number of nuclear power plants under construction is rapidly increasing. The EU is lagging behind, with the exception of France, which already saw the light in the 1970s and switched massively to nuclear energy. Mr. Chairman. We are now on the wrong track with the policy of the Rutte cabinet. JU wants to focus on innovation and improvement processes that are economically efficient such as, already recalled, nuclear energy. The policy that is now in the EU will dwindle the population and rob many people of their wealth or even make them poor. What needs to be done or what one wants can only be successful on a global scale. Those who are going to run at huge costs for the music will not be able to compete with the rest of the world. And those who can't compete anymore end up in an economic downturn. That is not the intention, and I do not think anyone in the EU would like that either. So it's true: our future is indeed at stake here. The Rutte cabinet seems determined to bring the Dutch economy to its knees through the climate policy of Minister Wiebes and to establish a structural purchasing power slaughter among the Dutch. Yesterday, we heard that next month's energy bill will increase by €60 per household due to the huge costs TenneT has to incur for the creation of additional alternative energy transmission networks. But that's nothing compared to what's ahead of us. State company TenneT is forced to invest EUR 35 billion in electricity networks in the coming years, especially in Germany. These are amounts that the Dutch taxpayer ultimately guarantees. All this as a result of a stupid takeover that was facilitated about ten years ago by a CDA Minister of Economic Affairs and a PvdA Minister of Finance. Last month I discussed this extensively in the debate with Minister Wiebes on InvestNL as an illustration of where megalomaniac ill-thought-out investments by public companies can lead. It can all be read back on the website of GO and our social media. If this Chamber agrees to the current law on the prohibition of coal in electricity production, the process of economic downturn will be accelerated further. It seems that the VVD under the leadership of Minister Wiebes has been decided to keep the decline of the Dutch economy in line with the decline of the VVD in the polls. A real race to the bottom. Mr. Chairman. It has already been recalled: The Netherlands has a number of state-of-the-art and brand new coal plants. Take, for example, the MPP3 plant; that stands for Maasvlakte Powerplant 3. This state-of-the-art coal power plant was opened in 2016, three years ago. Construction costs amounted to EUR 1.6 billion. The power plant is responsible for 7% of our Dutch electricity supply. In 2006, no less than Laurens Jan Brinkhorst, D66 Minister for Economic Affairs in the Balkenende II cabinet or III, took the decision to build three new coal power stations. And now they need to close D66, VVD, CDA, ChristenUnion and of course GroenLinks as soon as possible. If the coal law of Minister Wiebes passes, then these power stations are now closed and de facto expropriated. The coal law has already been passed by the Lower House; only the Upper Chamber can stop this madness now. GO is doing everything in its power to prevent this massive capital destruction. Capital destruction on an industrial scale. That you should be with the VVD and the CDA these days, who would have thought? Mr. Chairman. I shall now turn to two points in this debate which are under-explored. These are the security of supply and the consequence of this law for our climate of establishment. Many coal plant owners have concluded very long-term contracts, for example with the chemical industry. These are contracts for some 25 or 30 years, in which there are obligations for security of supply, prices and so on. Due to government policy, these companies are facing enormous problems and can therefore also face huge damages claims from their customers. This may amount to very high amounts which may eventually be recovered from the State, so that will cause additional damage. Finally. Another point I would like to draw attention to is the uncertainty that this law creates for foreign investors. The Rutte cabinet considered a while ago that abolishing the dividend tax would improve the locational environment. Well, that turned out to be very disappointing in practice, but this sort of major decision, whereby billions of investments, done at the request of a previous cabinet, are destroyed with a pen stroke again, leads to very great uncertainty among foreign investors who thought they could rely on a good locational environment. Finally, I would like to mention that. It is clear that our Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will not vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u49	Thank you, Mr. Otten. I shall now give the floor to Mr Pijlman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is now more than four years since the Netherlands joined the Paris Agreement to limit climate change by reducing CO emissions in such a way that a balance is reached between greenhouse gas emissions and uptake in the second half of this century. In the government agreement of this cabinet, the cabinet aims to reduce CO emissions by 49% in 2030 compared to 1990. That is also the EU objective. For the other countries, this cabinet would like to see that target increased to 55%. The objectives are ambitious, the reality is unwieldy. From the recent climate and energy exploration, we know that the targets can be met but that there is still a great deal to be done. We're still a long way from being here, as the Urgenda judgment also showed. As far as climate and environmental objectives are concerned, the courts must be involved several times in drawing political attention to their responsibilities. The cabinet is now working very hard to comply with the Urgenda ruling, but we are not yet there with this law. Can the Minister inform us how the cabinet intends to achieve the Urgenda objectives? Doesn't it require a much more fundamental change in our economy? Mr. Chairman. In 2003, the second Balkenende cabinet, with Minister Brinkhorst in charge, took the decision in principle to build new coal power stations. The decision was widely supported at that time and was also not reversed by later Cabinets. Diversification of energy generation was then central. Delivery security seemed to make the decision necessary. We were not allowed to be too dependent on gas and also wanted to be economical on our own gas supply. At that time wind and solar energy in the Netherlands were still in its infancy and climate policy did not exist. We can't really imagine it anymore. But with all the pessimism about meeting the climate objectives, it is also good to realise how much new technologies have made it possible within one generation to abandon the most polluting fossil fuel: coal. By the way, the latest coal plants with a higher efficiency are only open for a few years, but with the expectation that they will not run without CCS, capture and reception.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u51	I think that Mr Pijlman is going to be exactly where I wanted to go, because I was at that debate, with two other colleagues here, in which Minister Brinkhorst then decided to have these coal power stations built. It was not that there was no climate policy. At least there was climate debate and there was already much science of global warming. If we now look back at that debate, in which indeed a minority, but still a serious minority, warned about the consequences of the opening of these coal power stations, how do you judge it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u52	I'll get to that. My last sentence, which I was just talking about, CCS storage, preludes to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u53	Mr Van der Linden.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u54	I also have a question. The good old days, when climate policy wasn't such an issue; that sounds romantic.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u55	I didn't mean to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u56	That's how it looked to me. You talk about innovation and progress. You call it sun and wind. Do you think, and do you think, that D66 is progressing towards biomass in this case? If the coal plants close down and biomass plants replace them? Or is that a disaster?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u57	I'll get to that, too. Mr. Chairman. Anyone who puts the debate on energy generation in a historical perspective, and I am trying to do so, notes that in earlier discussions geopolitical considerations seem to play a much greater role than they do today. When the coal power stations are closed down, we do not read about a possible increase in dependence on Russian gas and its desirability or unwelcomeness. Would the Minister reflect on the geopolitical consequences, not only of this planned decision, but also more generally, of the geopolitical consequences of our energy policy and also of its alignment with other European countries? Think also of the Nord Stream debate. The closure of these plants means that several hundred workers will lose their jobs. The Minister has made the necessary commitments. I would like to ask him about the closure of the Hemweg plant which will now be a fact in January. How are these people doing? Were they indeed escorted to new work?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u58	Mr Pijlman talks about the undesirableness of being dependent on Russian gas. But how does he indicate that the Dutch government is simply co-owner of Putin's pipeline?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u59	You mean the gas roundabout.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u60	Yeah, including the gas roundabout. And also of course Nord Stream 1, which they are now building, and Nord Stream 2 as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u61	You're actually doing exactly the same thing I'd like to do. I believe that geopolitical considerations should again play a greater role in energy policy, as it used to be. If you put it in a historical perspective, then you saw that at the time, when we were pursuing this diversification, this was one of the considerations. I do not really see that geopolitical consideration again, and I regret that. That's what I was gonna say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u62	Yeah, but I did have a question about how to explain it. On the one hand, Mr Pijlman would not want to be dependent on Russian gas, but in the meantime the Dutch government is co-owner of Putin's pipeline. So that seems to be contradictory. 'Cause that ownership is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u63	I didn't say we shouldn't be dependent on Russian gas. We've been there a long time. I said that we have to consider how much we depend, how much we invest, and also that we have to consider in a European context with partners what could be a good geopolitical energy debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u64	However, one more question about these geopolitical considerations. If you think it is very important, then these coal plants must remain open. Can you reflect on that yourself before you let the Minister take those cabbages out of the fire?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u65	I'll come back to my assessment of the coal plants, don't worry. Mr. Chairman. When the Dutch power plants are closed, Frontier Economics says we will save at least 18 megatons of CO emissions, but due to leaking it will initially be 8 megatons. That is still very strong and there seems to be no alternative. It is now clear that Germany will also stop mining lignite and coal-fired power stations. The Kohlenausstieg must be completed by 2038, if possible 2035. And in 2022, a large number of coal plants will also close in Germany. That happens next to the intended Atomausstieg. My question to the Minister is whether the Netherlands is sufficiently aligning its energy policy with the surrounding countries, so that security of supply is guaranteed and the increase in renewable energy is also secured. How does this consultation and coordination take place in concrete terms, we ask the cabinet. The Minister was not very clear about it in the reply to my questions. Please provide a more specific explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u66	I'll come back to that German Kohlenausstig. There are still no concrete plans in Germany to achieve this. There is no phase-out plan at all yet. So I don't know how you see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u67	It has been agreed that this will take place by 2038 at the latest. In 2035 they try to do it. By the way, the first plants will close in 2022. That's about a dozen of them. And now plans are being made for the region, where there are also great employment interests, and also huge environmental interests if you look at a brown coal area, then you know what I mean in order to get to that halt. But all this must be coordinated at European level, otherwise you may have problems with security of supply. In fact, this is also an effect of geopolitics.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u68	What are the odds... consider Mr. Arrowstra the opportunity...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u69	Arrowstra, look at this! Fabstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u70	My deepest apologies for the confusion. How great is Mr. Arrowstra then really the chance that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u71	Mrs Faber, again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u72	I'm getting all confused about that CO state. Well, it turns out it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u73	Maybe you've inhaled too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u74	Maybe too much... Yeah, but that's not... Well, never mind. Seriously. What are the chances, then, through the President, that these lignite plants will actually be closed down?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u75	Mr. Pijmán.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u76	I assume that the German Government's intention will be made effective, because Germany is also bound by the Paris Agreement. Mr. Chairman. The planned closure of the power stations encounters a great deal of opposition from some of the owners of, in particular, the newest power stations. The tone of the letters that reach us on this subject is becoming increasingly sharper, and also in oral consultation with the representatives of Uniper there seems to be a need to prepare for legal proceedings. The State, it is believed, would in fact opt for expropriation when the newest plants were closed, because the conversion to biomass was unrealistic and the plants were built to run for at least 40 to 50 years, so that the large investments could be recouped. On the other hand, the cabinet argues that from 2004 onwards, and at least from 2007, it was quite clear that the new plants would have to reduce CO emissions to zero. The cabinet now wants to give the owners of the newest power stations ten years, as a disadvantage compensation, to meet the obligations of this law. Previously, the government already provided subsidies to enable coal plant owners to reduce CO emissions by adding biomass. The cabinet believes that the life of the power stations can be extended by adapting them to a new reality. According to the cabinet, the conversion of the plants to different forms of biomass, but also the use of hydrogen as a fuel, are possible. The Council of State considers that the closure of coal plants by the coal ban is an appropriate measure to reduce CO emissions. The Council of State also considers that, in advance, there is no reason to conclude that the proposed coal ban would not comply with international and European law, as argued in particular by Uniper. In response to the Council of State, in the explanatory memorandum, the cabinet again addressed all the arguments relating to property protection. With this bill, the cabinet believes that there is a fair balance between the various interests. It should be. Fair balance is of great importance for the location climate of the Netherlands and for a reliable government. For this reason, D66 would like to ask a number of questions and comment on them. Mr. Chairman. It would have been desirable for a European CO pricing system with a fair price that would have been introduced gradually to have led to a reduction in energy production from coal. But the prices are far too low, because too many rights have been issued. And we also know how difficult the CO pricing is in our own country. However, a future further pricing of CO, which is now slightly higher than, for example, two years ago, can significantly influence the economic sustainability of the opening of coal power stations, which makes a 10-year transition period for the newest power stations very reasonable. We would like to hear from the Minister how he looks at the future of the CO pricing system. It is also being discussed in Madrid today. Can he take us into his reflections on how that will develop in the coming years? Is the price, according to the best insights of the cabinet, going to follow the rising trend? And how does the CO pricing relate to the ten-year transition period? D66 believes that the polluter pays principle is also applied here. We believe that it is not unreasonable that, in this case too, pollution of the environment should in principle be placed on the polluter, provided that due care is taken, that we respect international obligations and that the producer of pollution has reasonably been given the opportunity to reduce pollution. In this context, we strongly support the fact that the Council of State, in its information on the amendments tabled by Mr Vos (Romans 34627-XIV, No. 11, 2016-2017) stated that CO reduction measures were foreseeable from 2007. The coal-fired operators knew what they were starting when they built the power plants and took their investment decisions on countless grounds. To my questions in the preliminary report, the Minister replied in his reply of 17 October that the licence for the newest power stations was issued at the time with the expectation that the system of collecting and storing CO in empty gas mines, on land or at sea, would be a market-proof technology within ten years. This means that during the construction of the newest plants under European legislation, the CCS-ready plants were built, i.e. the plants have been adapted so that the CO-capture plant can be added relatively easily at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u77	Mr. Pijlman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u78	Ha!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u79	Yeah, there's learning power in it! Mr. Pijlman says we have to stick to the international agreements, but can't we just cancel the Paris Agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u80	Yes, you can. Your great example, Trump, has done the same. You are right to say that we can do the same, but that was not what I wanted to say. Mr. Chairman. Why don't we take a look back at that CCS shelter? What does this mean in concrete terms? The operators of the newest plants knew what was expected of them. For example, they also promised the municipality of Rotterdam that CCS would be applied, but never delivered that promise. The cabinet at the time, however, freed up the financial resources for it. But in 2017, the coal plant operators stepped out of the Rotterdam ROAD CCS project. I do not know whether they made any other proposals to limit CO. The D66 Group believes that the measures taken by the cabinet are justified. By the way, the plants built in the 1990s were already written off, and the owners of the newest plants knew what they were starting when they took the investment decisions. After the plant was opened, they stepped out of the ROAD project themselves, so they could no longer meet the known requirement for CO reduction. Anyone considering this considers that the transitional period offered is reasonable and fair, says D66. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the question of what to do with the power stations after 2030 when they are no longer able to use coal as a fuel for electricity generation. The cabinet points out that conversion is possible in biomass. There has rightly been a great deal of unrest about this. Biomass and timber are often mixed up in the discussions. It is quite clear to D66 that only biomass that meets all internationally set targets can be used as a substitute and/or substitute fuel. Of course, the supply of wood that is or is not sustainably grown from very far is not one of them. But that's not all there is to it. Biomass that meets all the conditions remains necessary in the coming years and is also foreseen in the Climate Agreement, but there is a lot of uncertainty and public debate about this. When can the Cabinet provide a clear framework on the different types of biomass and the desired conditions, we ask the Minister. Moreover, it is worth remembering that the subsidy possibilities for biomass have not been opened up in the SDE+ scheme since 2018. However, existing subsidy schemes are maintained until 2024 in the light of legal certainty. We understand this, but we do want a testable framework and control over the use of biomass. Moreover, the three newest plants already used previous subsidy schemes. CCS, capture and reception, seems to have a new opportunity with the industry in Rotterdam. Can the Minister inform us of the state of play on these new developments? Mr. Chairman. The cabinet has included a hardness clause in Article 4 of the present legislative proposal. Eventually everything can be used, if there is an unexpected individual and excessive burden. That is not foreseen, but not all the circumstances can be foreseen in the next ten years. We also regard this hardness clause as an instrument for achieving, in all reasonable terms, the prohibition of coal in electricity production. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u81	We all need a clear framework for biomass. The PBL conducts research and the ESC comes with an opinion, which the cabinet will undoubtedly respond to. Then there's the framework and we'll discuss it here. Would Mr Pijlman agree with me that, until then, the cabinet will not grant any new subsidies for any electricity from biomass utilisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u82	As far as I know, no new subsidies are currently being granted for the addition of biomass in the power stations. Last week we had a debate and a motion on the timber reform. I'm gonna wait for the cabinet's response. As far as I know, no new biomass subsidies are being granted anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u83	On top of that, the Minister has been explicit in his comments on Mr Koffeman's motion. That's not my point. My point is to stop all subsidies for the use of biomass until we have properly discussed the framework requested by Mr Arrowman and have been able to provide a political majority. Do you think that's what he feels like?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u84	Then I keep repeating myself. I will wait for the Minister's answer first. I believe that these new subsidies are no longer being granted, but that existing subsidies go through to 2024. There's no legal alternative. If it's any different, we'll come back to it in the second instance. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. The D66 fraction sees much more in the large-scale generation of renewable energy and sustainable green hydrogen. Green hydrogen technology is developing rapidly and many companies also want to invest in it. European projects would also be very welcome. The cabinet has embraced green hydrogen. Can the Minister inform us about the further roll-out of green hydrogen as a means of greening industry in particular and of the role the government is taking in promoting this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u85	Are you through your lines?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u86	No, I hesitated for a while, but I'm gonna finish it. Finally. The legislative proposal to ban coal in electricity production can count on the agreement of the D66 Group. It is the only way to achieve a significant reduction of CO in the short and medium term. The proposal complies with the requirements of Article 1 of the ECHR, which recognises that the State may regulate and restrict the use of property in order to ensure the public interest, if conditions such as the legality test, the legitimacy test and the proportionality test are met, the fair balance. And that's what this proposal does. The D66 Group looks forward to the Minister's reply to our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u87	Mr Pijlman has just spoken good words about green hydrogen, which I spoke recently in the General Financial Reviews, in the presence of the Minister and the Secretary of State for Finance. This is precisely the point that I made to the cabinet: include green hydrogen in the Minister's growth agenda in a substantial way, with funding through the corresponding transition fund. The cabinet didn't feel like it at the time. Now I hear Mr. Pijlman. Can we do business about this in this debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u88	You've been looking back for a while and I've been looking forward. Shall we wait and see how the cabinet reacts? In any case, we agree that green hydrogen can be an extremely good way of generating renewable energy. We all know that we will have to do something, especially in the wind farms.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u89	Mr President, one more time, if I may. My point was that the cabinet has already responded through the Minister of Finance. Your colleague Mr Backer was there, but we all know, you can also read it, that it did not make any progress. Hence my question again. If the cabinet is so determined to go firmly into it, with a good green hydrogen program, then it has to come from us today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u90	Perhaps the debate of that time is precisely the reason why I am now putting it back on the agenda. I know I'm with you. That's fun.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u91	I did not really get a full answer to the question I asked Mr Pijlman. I hear him say that he is disappointed at the fact that there is no investment in CO capture, as promised. I think immediately: that was ultimately because we left the energy supply to the market? If we'd had it in our own hands, we'd probably have settled it by now, but that on the side. He says that the decision was also taken at the time for geopolitical reasons. I think he forgets that the discussion at that time about the effects on people's climate and health was indeed present. He didn't come back to that. I'd like to hear him talk about that. How does he look back at that? When we look at geopolitics, I have the following question: where do the coal come from and how are they mined? It's not just about CO. It is also about the environmental impact and health of residents. So it was not just geopolitics and it was not just the climate we pointed out at the time. Once again, how does Mr Pijlman look back on this whole discussion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u92	What I've been trying to say is this. When the decision-making around the coal plants took place in 2003, geopolitical reasons played an important role. Certainly, at that time there were also people who pointed to the climate problem and that was getting stronger, but at that time the considerations were mainly geopolitical. Now we're shutting down the power stations. I find that pleasing. But I can see in the whole energy policy, including in European energy policy, that there is little more talk about geopolitical consequences, not between countries such as Germany and the Netherlands, which should be very closely aligned, and not in a broader context. I'd like to see that. When the decision was taken in 2003, there was no CCS, capture and storage. That didn't come until later. But I believe that the operators of the newest coal plants are now acting as if they were entirely victims. No, they promised at the time, among other things to the municipality of Rotterdam, that they would start working with CCS. A major financial project has been launched. There has also been European money for this. They then withdrew from it. And then there was no way to comply with that obligation. That aspect is completely omitted from the discussion, but it is part of the discussion, because it is one of the considerations that we are now considering in order to conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u93	Mrs. Gerkens, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u94	I hear Mr Pijman drawing lessons from the past, in which he actually looks at his own interests or the interests he wants to put forward: the geopolitical situation and the promises that have been made and which have not been fulfilled. I ask him to look at other aspects of which you might now wonder what went wrong and what we could learn from now. I would like to see Mr Pijlman reflect on that as well. Indeed, there was certainly a minority at the time who said it was the wrong choice. What I am trying to say here is that democracy is more than just saying: we had broad support. Perhaps it would have been better if we had looked at the warning signals at the time. They are now also on a number of fronts. I ask Mr Pijlman to take it with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u95	Keep it short, Mr. Arrowman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u96	That's what I'm trying to do. I tried to put it in a historical perspective. I admit there were warnings back then. They're right. Then much more was looked at with a geopolitical look. That is not happening anymore. I regret that. By the way, looking the cow in the ass doesn't make much sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u97	Mr Van der Linden for a brief closing question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u98	I had asked two questions during the contribution and did not receive a full answer. I had a question about the geopolitics about which you just continued. If D66 itself looks at what is happening here, namely the imminent closure of these coal plants, is that from a geopolitical point of view an improvement or a deterioration? That's my first question. The second question I asked is whether the conversion to biomass according to D66 is an improvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u99	I've said enough about that last one. I want to know that framework first. I also referred to Article 4 of the law. So I've said enough about that. Geopolitically, I can't oversee it. That is the very essence of what is missing from the whole energy debate. That aspect needs to be raised again on the agenda. That's what I'm emphasising.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u100	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u101	It's striking, isn't it? You do not know what geopolitical means and you do not know whether biomass is an improvement. D66 therefore does not know this, but is there really any doubt that this law is a good idea? We don't understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u102	I think you're a little short of me by saying I don't know. I am putting a number of points on the agenda that I have not yet heard, in particular that geopolitical aspect. I have been very clear and clear about biomass.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-4.u103	Thank you, Mr. Arrowman.
