ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-5.u1	Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Maeijer of the PVV for her question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, whom I would like to welcome, on the increase in the Dutch contribution to Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr President. The Netherlands is the largest net contributor of the European Union this century. For years we have been paying for Bulgarian fake castles, Spanish and Greek airports where one plane will never land, and bottles of champagne at meetings of the European Council. Meanwhile, we have nothing more to say about our own borders and our own pensions. The European Union is a freak. So we have to get out of this EU. We can spend that money much better in the Netherlands, to our elderly, to our care, to ease the burden for all Dutch people. Next year, Brussels will cost us more than EUR 8 billion. As always, of course, that is not nearly enough to pay for all the plans of the Europhiles in Brussels. So they want more, more money, from us. And if it is up to the European Commission, we will pay EUR 13 billion. That is an increase of 62.5%. They've really freaked out in Brussels. That is why the next question. Is the Minister prepared to guarantee here, today, that the Netherlands will not pay a penny, but not a penny extra to Brussels?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-5.u3	I call the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Maeijer asked about the position of the Dutch cabinet on the European budget and the Dutch contributions to it in response to the reports in Het Financieele Dagblad this morning. As Mrs Maeijer knows, we regularly talk about one of these, even after the European Commission's proposals were announced more than a year ago, the Chamber received a letter from the Dutch cabinet, which actually contained the amounts that were also in the Dutch newspaper this morning. So these are not new amounts. In the same letter, the cabinet indicated that the European Commission's proposal is not acceptable to the Netherlands and that it is therefore its commitment, like that of many other countries, fortunately, to reduce the increase in the European budget to 1% instead of the 1.11% proposed by the Commission, and to keep the Dutch contribution at the level of the current percentage of our national product. These points have always been communicated to the Chamber in the past year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-5.u5	I am aware of Mr Blok's pre-programmed reply. I've been hearing this one-and-a-half years. But the minister shouldn't throw sand in people's eyes. In your proposal, Minister Blok, in that 1% proposal you are talking about, our contribution will also increase considerably, by nearly 2 billion in 2027. You can't explain that, can you? We have been the biggest net contributor for decades! It just has to be done sometime, right? That must be the message in Brussels. Now negotiate with the knife on the table while we are still in that terrible European Union. In my opinion, the Minister is there to defend the Dutch interest. He shouldn't be afraid to hit his Brussels friends in the head. We have a veto. Put that in, Minister Blok. Don't you dare! Again, is the Minister prepared to guarantee here today that the Netherlands will not pay a penny extra to Brussels and that he will block any proposal that will lead to a higher Dutch contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-5.u6	It is good to note that Mrs Maeijer agrees with me that the information I am now giving is consistent with the information given by the cabinet from the moment the European Commission's proposal came out on a European budget, which the cabinet indeed says from the outset, and still, that the total amount is too high. This means that the contribution requested from the Netherlands is too high. It wouldn't be very effective if we just said that. Since then, we've negotiated and formed a coalition. As Mrs Maeijer has undoubtedly seen, a number of countries with us say that it should not be 1.11% but 1%. So that says a lot of countries with us. There needs to be reform, from old to new priorities, such as innovation, migration, climate and security. The amount reserved for this by the Dutch government is the percentage of the Dutch national product we now have, corrected by economic growth and inflation over the coming years. We shared this with the Chamber in June last year. Our whole budgetary system is working that way. Nor do we say in the Education budget that it will be exactly the same in euros in five years' time, because we are also correcting it for inflation and economic growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-5.u7	Finally, Mr President. Minister Blok can make jokes about that bet, but I've been hearing this ringing for a year and a half. It's just unbelievable. I mean, Brussels is plundering our wallet and you're standing by and looking at it. You are actually giving that blank cheque in advance: the extra 2 billion is fine here in the Netherlands. I find it truly incredible that the Minister is not prepared to give any guarantee that our Dutch contribution will not increase an extra cent. Unbelievable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-5.u8	Thank you, Mrs Maeijer. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-5.u9	If I were to follow Mrs Maeijer's line, we would have to say throughout the budget that the amount of 2019 is the amount of 2027. It'd get stuck. We all know that there is inflation and wage increases in the real world. We are correcting Dutch budgets for this and also the EU contribution. But that is still a much lower amount than the European Commission's proposal, which the Netherlands has indicated is far too high; fortunately, together with a whole number of other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-5.u10	Mrs Maeijer is angry that we have to pay more money because of the Brexit, but she is one of the biggest supporters of the Brexit. That seems to me to be a rather shaky position in any case. I also think that the Foreign Minister is going along very well with the story that less money has to go to Brussels. That sounds very good, but it is much more important that we use the money we spend in the European Union for good things for people, such as more security, defence cooperation and climate. That requires this reform, but I can only hear the Minister say one thing about it. I can only hear him go further in the image of the PVV. Why is there no foreign minister here who says that the Dutch are committed to spending the money we contribute to the European Union on good causes? That should be the main line.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-5.u11	Yeah, there's some nice political rhetoric going on here. First the PVV kicks my ass that I don't go with them and now D66 kicks my ass that I go with the PVV so much. One of both... No, they don't even have to be either one of them true. I'm just heading for the cabinet course. Mr Verhoeven also knows it. That's not a combination of less. With that Mr Verhoeven also flew a bit off the bend. It is a combination of keeping the Dutch contribution constant, adjusted for inflation and cost increases, and modernisation. The Netherlands is also very clear when it comes to modernisation. We have a very ambitious strategic agenda. It has also been extensively discussed here. It has also been very well picked up in Europe. We point out that Europe must choose priorities. I just mentioned them: climate, migration, security, innovation. Here too, we have formed a coalition with a number of countries in order to achieve this. By the way, those countries that disagree have also formed a coalition, because they want traditional destinations to keep the existing budgets or, preferably, to get even more. That is the commitment of negotiations. Our commitment is absolutely modernising.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-5.u12	The Minister is right that we have known this for a year and a half. The government has reacted quite well, indeed with the words: this is unacceptable for the Netherlands. And yet we're still negotiating. I don't understand. If it is unacceptable for the Netherlands, the Netherlands should have said that it would not even be negotiating this proposal from the European Commission, which also received the benefits of the European Parliament, because that also wants extra. The Netherlands should have said: it is 1% or we are not negotiating. Because then you can really talk about the content. Otherwise, we're gonna get fucked in the suit. Why didn't the Netherlands choose that strategy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-5.u13	The Netherlands would, of course, be completely alone. If you want to achieve something, you have to negotiate and form coalitions. That's exactly what we're doing. We have a coalition that supports us that the European Commission's proposal is too high. We have a coalition, partly overlapping with the previous one and partly of a different one, which is very committed to the modernisation that Mr Verhoeven rightly emphasises. So we used the time well. Indeed, many countries are also critical of the Netherlands. They say: if the Netherlands had admitted sooner, we would have been out. Well, we didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-5.u14	The PVV colleague said that the Netherlands must leave the European Union. Is it true that Norway, which is not a member of the European Union, pays EUR 800 million annually to the European Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-5.u15	Mr Mulder is right. If you leave the European Union and want to continue trading with the European Union, which is, of course, crucial for a trading country like the Netherlands, you will have to pay. That is not to say that it is unwise to leave the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-5.u16	Thank you. This brings us to the end of Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. and then we shall vote.
