ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-5.u1	I am now going to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen for her questions to the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality, who has now arrived. I would like to welcome the Minister. The question is about breeding rabbits. I call Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr President. In the Netherlands hobby breeders of rabbits have free play. They're literally about corpses. Copies that are not beautiful enough, have a coat with wrong dots, stripes or color are killed without pardon. They end up in the garbage, in a bucket of water, getting beaten to death, their necks broken, and they get eaten. "Spaces" is what the breeders call it. The shocking reportage of EenVandaag portrayed this common lurid practice through undercover images. Utrecht University is also calling in its research report from 2018. The self-breaking of the neck is forbidden, but there is no control of these malicious practices. The researchers note this and conclude that stricter and clearer legislation and regulation can provide a basis for enforcement and control. Does the Minister agree with the Animal Party that the so-called'signing of breeding animals' is appalling, that this absolutely must not happen in the Netherlands and that it must be fought hard against it? How can it be that 400 breeders simply have free play and that an undercover team is needed to bring this to light? Why do these people still have the right to keep animals and go free, when the abuse and killing of the animal is a criminal offence? Where's the restraining order that would come to the Chamber? Does the Minister not consider it appropriate for these notorious animal abusers to allow the court to impose a life-long restraining ban on keeping all animals? How can you explain that the NVWA only has five employees? Pet welfare controls? How can it be that for many years, i.e. from cabinet to cabinet, there has been such cuts in supervision and enforcement that the NVWA, the organisation responsible for control, has been completely cut back and turned into a toothless supervisor? Does the Minister recognise that animal police should be given more manpower and that there should be not only task officers but also full-time animal police officers? Would she like to work with her fellow Minister for Justice and Security to do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-5.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen for your questions. I've seen the reportage at EenVandaag as well. I must say that I believe that the practices shown in this broadcast also exceed moral limits. The fact that animals are killed because of a wrong colour also strikes me against the chest, because an animal with a wrong colour.... I find it almost strange to say that, but it is a colour that someone does not like.... can still be sold or taken somewhere where that animal is well taken care of. The report also mentions killing methods that are prohibited. We have animal protection rules in the Netherlands. In addition to the prohibition of neglect and abuse, which applies to all animals, general housing and care standards apply to rabbits kept by hobbyists. At the moment we are in the process of evaluating the Animal Law. The Animal Act provides for the examination of the methods by which certain animals may be killed. For example, for dogs and cats, quite specific arrangements have been drawn up. My predecessors have already indicated that they will look at how to deal with other pet animals in the evaluation of the Animal Law. That evaluation is now under way. So I suggest that we have that discussion. I told you, I think this is worth a discussion. Then we also have the data relating to this. In addition, there is an annual conversation from my ministry with the representatives of the hobby holders. In that conversation, I will also mention the ways in which these animals are kept, the methods of killing and how the sector itself takes responsibility for improving them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-5.u5	It is a great pleasure for the Minister to say that this practice is also against her and that she appreciates the fact that a debate is being held here in the Chamber. This debate is indeed very much needed, because the animals are often the subject under discussion. It indicates that there is regulation and that it is being evaluated. But now the Minister is ignoring my questions about the NVWA. The fact is that only five employees at the NVWA are concerned with the control of pet animals. All of these five employees have not completed a study of veterinary medicine. That's shockingly little. I am also concerned that there is a lack of knowledge to check properly. These five controllers are opposed to 400 hobby breeders, where the daily practice is that they throw the rabbits that do not fit the good colour, just to the waste and where animal abuse is therefore daily practice. I ask the Minister not to wait, not to dawdle anymore, to extend the animal police with more manpower and to expand the knowledge of the NVWA. Will the Minister take action by pleading with the Minister of Justice and Security for a life-long restraining ban on animal abusers? 'Cause otherwise this isn't gonna stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-5.u6	A bill on the restraining ban has now been consulted; that consultation has been concluded. That bill will be sent to this Chamber very soon. That bill belongs to my colleague from JenV, but I am, of course, closely involved in it. So it will come to this Chamber very soon and then it can be dealt with here. The second point concerns the deployment of the NVWA and the animal police. The animal police are also with my colleague from JenV, but I will talk to him about the commitment and the distribution of tasks. As Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen knows, this cabinet has just invested in the NVWA. In addition, we also have the National Inspection Service for Animal Protection, which I also work on and which I also pay for. This means that there are several channels that are used to promote animal welfare and maintain it. In this way, we try to put an end to the practices we find undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-5.u7	Finally, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-5.u8	Thank you for the Minister's commitment to improvement. But we see that there is a huge shortage of enforcers. The animal police are also constantly being cut back; it is a task accent instead of a full-time job. And the NVWA lacks the necessary knowledge. The Animal Party is in favour of really scaling up enforcement and supervision and giving the animals the protection they deserve.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-5.u9	I've just indicated how the stakes have been shaped. In this way, we are also trying to look more broadly, for example in the evaluation of the Animal Law, at legislation and regulations, but we are also calling on the sector itself to take responsibility for eliminating undesirable practices.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-5.u10	Thank you, Mrs Van Kooten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-5.u11	On the one hand, the Minister says that there are rules and they are there to protect animal welfare. On the other hand, it also says that the sector itself must ensure that these rules are enforced. Does the Minister explain this to the sector out of lack of means to control it itself, or is there another philosophy behind it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-5.u12	I have just tried to explain that we do not currently have any special provision in the Animal Law for the method of killing rabbits in this case. For dogs and cats, we have recorded this in the Animal Law. The question of whether this should be extended to pet animals is currently included in the evaluation of the Animal Law, because that rule does not yet exist. That's a discussion we're gonna have. In addition, we regularly have the LID and the NVWA. Moreover, we are going to address the sector ourselves, because I believe that it should have a role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-5.u13	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this oral Question Time. I'm suspending the meeting. After the suspension, we'll vote.
