ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u1	The next item is the Tax Plan 2020 Package, the Implementation Act 2nd EU Anti-Tax Prevention Directive (35241) and the Implementation Act EU-Taxed Cross-Border Constructions Directive (35255). Today we are discussing the first term of office. Tomorrow we're gonna listen to the government's answers. They're from the Secretary of State. Thank you for joining us for the next few hours. We're gonna sit down for a while: mints by hand et cetera. We have received a number of additional speakers and a number of speakers have increased his speaking time. They were afraid we might be done by midnight today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u2	I think we should just listen to the first speaker, Mr Edgar Mulder, from the Group of the Party for Freedom. He has requested a modest 20 minutes' speaking time. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u3	Mr. Chairman. What is twenty minutes when you talk about eight laws and the redistribution of many billions through 94 tax regulations: the 2020 Tax Plan? This is, by the way, the third day of the debate. We've been on it for over 20 hours. But does all this commitment and discussion make any difference? Do they provide more than 1,500 questions and answers? Does it pay off for the Dutch? That is, of course, the key question, Secretary of State. It is already clear that this Tax Plan is not a trend break. This plan does not provide any real improvement in purchasing power either. The 2020 Tax Plan is not a plan for the common man. Like the previous years, the coalition is playing a game. They first come up with a nicely polished marketing story with the core that everyone is really getting better now. Then the journalists spread this message. These lackeys of power were good at sending that message through their columns and through the state TV. This has been happening for three years in a row. I see Mr Omtzigt glittering. We are doing well, but in 2017 we were promised 1% more purchasing power. 90% of the Dutch would also improve on it. That was bullshit. It wasn't 1% and half of the Dutch lost their purchasing power. Last year we were here in this room and then the coalition kept repeating that the Netherlands would once again make enormous progress. But what are the facts? 'Cause we always get it afterwards. 48% of the population deteriorated in 2018. So the purchasing power decreased. In fact, the average purchasing power of the Dutch population has risen the least since the end of the economic crisis last year. This year is not over, but we can already see that the promised 1.5% is not going to be achieved, because once again wages are rising less than inflation. Mr. Chairman. The purchasing power of ordinary citizens has not increased for years. The government and the coalition parties don't want to hear it, but the blows are hitting the country hard. In fact, the citizens have less and less money in their pockets, for example by increasing energy costs, increasing car costs, increasing the price of cigarettes and raising housing costs. The diesel price goes up again, twice even. Of every litre of petrol, we can pay €0.97 to the treasury. There will soon also be a flight tax. And that while the increase in VAT is still dreading. In which universe is this good policy? Households with a modal income and an average rent this year, in 2019, lost 55% of their available budget to fixed charges. In 2019, a quarter, 25% of the Dutch go on holiday. And that in a Netherlands where the economy is doing well and where there has been a surplus for years in a row. That's the Netherlands of 2019. In the Netherlands of Rutte and accomplices, more than 650,000 residents cannot pay their monthly energy bill. More than 650,000 inhabitants. "Energy poverty" is a new word. This cabinet, this coalition, should be ashamed of that, because the reason for this misery is the increase in taxes and the use of energy. The prediction is that no less than 1.5 million incomes will be affected by 2030. That's over 3 million people. That's unacceptable. And that's just the beginning of the misery, because what's coming to us over the next few years is terrifying: priceless heat pumps, non-efficient solar panels, forced renovations and hundreds of metres of windmills everywhere. It won't stop, not by itself. And so all these costs have not yet been settled. What all these plans have in common is that the ordinary people are going to pay for it. Money goes from poor to rich. Last year, I called this Secretary of State a "reverse Robin Hood." Unfortunately, he lives up to this name. The money goes from poor to rich. Earlier we could see that in the subsidies for hybrid cars. 7 billion euros of tax money was spent on patser boxes, so self-appointed thoughtful Netherlands with the NRC in the back seat could drive luxurious to the golf course. At the end of the 7 billion euros, the Secretary of State had to admit that it had yielded nothing. Zero, nada. Also with solar panels the money goes from poor to rich. And history repeats itself, because if you don't have money in the Netherlands today to invest in heat pumps, hybrid heaters and insulation conversions, your heating costs will go up again. Poor pays for rich. And it's getting weirder. Rutte III wants us to spend 11.4 billion on biomass. EUR 11.4 billion from the Dutch to stimulate biomass. Last week, the report found that burning biomass produces 21% more CO emissions than burning coal. All of this doesn't matter to us as PVV, but if you believe that CO is bad, it's weird that you invest billions in a system that provides more CO. Biomass is worse than gas and coal. We're talking 11.4 billion. So we're going to repeat the drama of the hybrid cars. And everyone's standing by and looking at it. It's crazy. We're gonna try again today as PVV. We're coming up with an amendment. This amendment will end the greenhouse gas emissions in 2020, which are related to the promotion of biomass. If we get a majority for this, this will generate a plus of over €80 per household, just for 2020, only for the cessation of biomass, which is demonstrably bad. Mr. Chairman. Everything in The Hague is political. And if there's anything political, it's taxes. Then there is another way, and the PVV wants it to be different. Enough is enough. Let's just make honest tax laws. First of all, the PVV wants to tax the transfer of money to OIC countries. The PVV comes in the second term with a proposal for an OIC tax, a tax on transferring money from the Netherlands to countries of the OIC. You know, that club of countries that have signed the Cairo Declaration which declared Sharia to be the leader of all legislation. Even the EU Court ruled in 2003 that Sharia is incompatible with the fundamental principles of our democracy. In the second period, the PVV will therefore make a proposal for this. And let's make the box 3 tax fair. Finally. The savings in the Netherlands can only be taxed on the basis of the real, real return. The starting date shall be 1 January 2020. The PVV does not make any concession in this regard. Then cut the purchase tax on cars, the bpm. The Secretary of State promised a systematic phasing-out of the bpm a few years ago. When he made that promise, the total revenue for the Treasury was EUR 1.55 billion. One year after his promise to reduce this tax, the total GDPm had suddenly become 2 billion euros, and in 2018 it was 2.27 billion. In total, this is more than 700 million additional purchase tax per year, while the Secretary of State would be working on a phasing-out. Now I have asked the Secretary of State in one of the previous debates what his definition of "construction" is. But it turns out that we use the same dictionary. So he just failed. That is possible, but that is why we are coming up with a proposal in the second term, a motion, to really cut down the bpm. Then there is the profit tax on multinationals, the Vpb. We already knew in this Chamber that multinationals like Shell, Philips and AkzoNobel do not pay taxes. But two weeks ago we even got figures showing that other large companies in the Netherlands are paying less than we thought so far. And it's significantly less: nothing is not 25%, not even 20%, but somewhere around 17%. The cabinet plans to reduce the Vpb rate to 21.7% by 2021. The PVV seems much fairer to maintain the current 25% until the effective rate comes close to the nominal rate. Mr. Chairman. All of these healthy understanding measures provide enough money for a clear increase in purchasing power, leading to a trend break. To sum up, it could be different; it is simply a matter of common sense and perhaps the next two days still have a good debate. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u4	Thank you. Then Mrs Lodders from the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u5	Mr. Chairman. There are a number of important principles for my party when we talk about taxes. Taxation must be as low as possible, taxes must be fair and fair, and taxes must be understandable. The first one worked. There is a 3 billion reduction in charges. On the other points, we still have a number of steps to take. Box 3 is, however, an example of a tax that is not fair and fair. The situation surrounding the childcare allowance, which we have talked about before, is, of course, a good example of where it really needs to be fairer. What steps does the cabinet take to make taxes fairer and more understandable? Mr. Chairman. We must also pay attention to the so-called assassins of purchasing power. We lower taxes, but if costs go up elsewhere, people still don't get anywhere with it. I am referring to the development of local burdens such as the ozb, the desires that ultimately lead to a higher ozb, the waterboard tax or the care premium. My question to the Secretary of State is whether and how he will closely monitor this development and, if necessary, whether he is prepared to take action. There's a lot going on in the tax plans. It is not just about choices about paying taxes, but also about the financial space there is to invest in topics that people think are important, such as our safety, good care, accessibility or education. A number of measures that have been taken to meet our climate forecast are also reflected in the current Tax Plan. In addition to taxes, it is also about tackling tax evasion and avoidance. In short, it is a multitude of measures that affect us all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u6	Mrs Lodders mentioned "sneak killers" with regard to purchasing power. Then why does the cabinet increase the rate in the first disc with your support?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u7	These are the measures we are taking here in this Tax Plan. By the assassins, I mean the burdens that we do not directly influence in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u8	So that's a little easy for me. You point to others, to local authorities that have their own responsibility. But the VVD's own responsibility is that the top rate goes down but the first disc rate goes up. And what is the most important effect for people with lower incomes, working and not working? That the first disc rate is constantly used as an assassin in the tax system. Each time that is used as a closing point and that rate goes up. I don't understand that when you're talking about assassins.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u9	Mr Snels should look at the whole package before us today. In this Tax Plan there is 3 billion extra tax relief. In addition, we bring forward the measure planned for 2021, to go to a two-disk system, even a year. This is a measure that affects all groups, but the 3 billion measure is directed towards the middle income group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u10	The PVV was also directly opposite the VVD when dealing with the Tax Plan 2019. The discussion was then also about purchasing power. In the introduction the VVD also tells us that you can do something in the Tax Plan, but that doesn't yield anything if other costs go up. In last year's discussion, the VVD insisted that 90% of Dutch people would progress. Now that doesn't seem right. Perhaps my colleague would like to withdraw something, apologize or say something to the Dutch?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u11	We're making a tax plan. In recent years we have had to take a number of measures that have affected people, including in the wallet. I will come back to that in a moment. At the same time, we can see that there is a tax plan in which we are doing 3 billion in relief. This is separate from the measures we were in the coalition agreement. So I think we are taking a very positive step with this Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u12	But last year the VVD continued to claim that 90% would improve. And now, one year later, we have the facts and it turns out that 48% of them have deteriorated and that purchasing power has never been so low since 2013. And all of that during high-end economics. Does the VVD admit that what she claimed then is not true and that the choice for Rutte III gives the Dutch less purchasing power?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u13	We have in the Tax Plan our independent accountants, who give a certain explanation of the figures. That actually applies to all measures. You can never stare at that. In this Tax Plan, we have at least released 3 billion extra for relief. That's what we're putting in for a very specific group. That is what we are doing in this Tax Plan, and I hope that Mr Mulder will also support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u14	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u15	Mr. Chairman. The VVD is satisfied with the tax plan, because after years of financial headwind, in which many entrepreneurs and other people had to tighten the belt, there is room for additional load relief. The VVD would have wanted more, but it's a nice first step. Public debt has been reduced to a level where we can also make other choices. And that's what we're gonna do. I am pleased that we have managed to release EUR 3 billion extra in this Tax Plan, i.e. on top of the government agreement, for this reduction. The VVD has chosen to use the relief mainly for middle income. Whether you're a nurse, a construction worker or a warehouse worker, I don't care. We see that these people are working hard and at the same time having a hard time, despite the good economic conditions. It is therefore right that this extra space should reach these people. This additional load relief is not on its own. Income tax will be reduced from next year. We are doing this by bringing forward a year of the tax reduction planned for 2021. This means that as of next year we have only two rates in income tax: a low rate, just above 37%, and a top rate, of 49.5%. My group also welcomes the fact that this measure is being brought forward. There is no longer a top rate in which you have to pay more than 50% of your income in tax, and that was a long time ago. Of course, there are other measures that are also opposed to the lower top rate, which my colleagues also know, such as the limited possibility to deduct costs. In addition, we are taking a number of other measures in this Tax Plan. For example, the tax on the energy bill is reduced by about €100 per family when used on average and we see the labour discount and the general tax discount increase. All in all a nice package, but that doesn't get us there yet. For my party, the stakes remain on further burden relief. When we talk about burden relief, the government is often looked at. That makes sense, and you can. It is the government that collects taxes and then makes important investments in safety, good care, accessibility and education. But it's not just the government that has a responsibility. The VVD also calls on large companies to increase people's wages wherever possible. We've talked about this a number of times. It cannot be explained that profits from large companies are at a record level and that salaries at the top are rising sharply, but that people in the workplace are not sufficiently profiting. For this reason, the business community in this Tax Plan contributes to reducing the tax burden on the middle groups. The planned reduction in the tax on profits in the second tranche is therefore postponed for a year. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the position and earning capacity of SMEs. If we're in the future as a country...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u16	A question from Mr Nijboer on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u17	The VVD and Prime Minister Rutte were so critical of the dividend tax this spring, and it became so unbelievable to beat the big companies, that he said that the companies should raise wages and that otherwise the reduction of the profit tax would be postponed. Does Mrs Lodders now say on behalf of the VVD that this threat also applies for next year? Are we going to move forward again next year if wages are not rising sufficiently and the companies do not care about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u18	Mr Nijboer now hears me making this appeal. I'm not going to anticipate next year. I'm not gonna go into it like that either. I think my party leader made a fair appeal last summer. We have actually shown what that means. I assume that the call will be accounted for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u19	I'm not asking a question like that. I'm just asking about it now. What does the VVD think about the fact that for next year the guarantee of 2 billion in relief for larger companies will actually be given? That's just it. Mrs Lodder says that if the companies continue to ignore the call I am making again today, we will be back next year, and can we agree that the 2 billion profit tax reduction will not happen next year? I would very much encourage that. I also think it helps, but I can't really hear it. I think it's a kind of cryptogram, while you can be very clear, because you're party to the clear statements and appointment is a deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u20	I fully understand Mr Nijboer's wish to anticipate that, but I do not. I have every reason to. Let's make this call. We have shown in this Tax Plan how we deal with it. Again, I'm not going to anticipate whether or not anything happens. I think the point I am raising again is clear. I also think I made it clear that it is not the first time we have brought this forward. My party leader did. Our group chairman, Mr Dijkhoff, did it in his contribution. In my opinion, this has also been addressed in the Financial Reviews. So I think it's very clear. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the position and earning capacity of SMEs. If we want to grow as a country in the future, as an economy, we will have to take measures to strengthen entrepreneurship, entrepreneurs and SMEs. They are the engine of the economy and of invaluable value. It is these entrepreneurs who sponsor the football or the scouting on Saturday. It is these entrepreneurs who take care of the day sailing with seniors. It's these entrepreneurs who offer a place to people who can't easily find a regular job. So we have to be careful about that. In the current plans, the VVD has tried to avoid SMEs as much as possible. But they too will notice the effects of the measures. Fortunately, small entrepreneurs and SMEs receive a tax reduction. The first share of the income tax is reduced. I'm very happy about that. I also mention the 100 million for the cost of working. This is a rigid regulation which creates a great deal of red tape. Fortunately, we are now exempting the vog and the financial impetus will also allow for a number of improvements to be made. But in this area too, my party still has wishes. Prosperity and well-being cannot be without economic growth. Investing in important issues cannot be without economic growth. We must therefore continue to work towards a good environment for entrepreneurship. Mr. Chairman. I am satisfied, but I also have some critical notes, for example about the upcoming increase in box 2. Now that the reduction in the high rate of profit tax is postponed for a year, it would have been logical to postpone the increase in box 2 for another year. Because the link is in the global balance, as we call it in this house. But that's what we're letting go of in the tax plan before us. This feels unreasonable to entrepreneurs, all the more so because it is often screened with them. I would like to table a motion in the second term, which is not quite customary, but I would like to say that I would like to investigate the effects of global balance, such as the behavioural effects for entrepreneurs. Mr. Chairman. The implementation of all kinds of measures within the current tax system is not easy. The current system is on its last legs. The tax buttons are so empty that a new system seems inevitable. In addition, there is the pressure under which the service must perform. New policies, a changing organisation, inadequate ICT and the cultural aspect of the service do not contribute to this. Just yesterday we saw how that worked out with the supplement scheme in the ibo Supplements, which the cabinet sent to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Many studies have now been launched which should serve as building blocks for a new system. In recent weeks, a number of wishes have been added to this tax plan. My group looks forward with interest to the results of these investigations, but at the same time calls on the Secretary of State to continue working on important issues which need to be considered in anticipation of a major review. Reducing marginal pressure, i.e. working, should pay, supporting the middle groups and the growth opportunities for SMEs, are important issues on which the VVD would like to take further steps during this period. Mr. Chairman. Over the past week, we have dealt with various laws, both in the written round and in the legislative consultation. A lot of questions have been answered. However, I would like to touch on a number of points. In this Tax Plan, agreements have been made to make EUR 1 billion available to make a discount on the landlord's tax in areas where there is a shortage of housing. That is an incentive to detach the housing. In effect, the Randstad seems to have been chosen in particular, while there are other areas in the country where there is a shortage of housing. I mentioned the regions of Zwolle, Arnhem, Nijmegen and Breda earlier. I understand that the spokesmen Wonen debated this with each other yesterday. I believe that this debate will continue on Wednesday. I am looking in the direction of Mr Nijboer. In any case, I would like the VVD to express its wish that this should be extended. I also expect an amendment. I have also seen that Mr Nijboer has already tabled an amendment. Mr. Chairman. As far as my group is concerned, the reduction of VAT on e-books can be wholeheartedly supported. One condition is that this reduction actually reaches the consumer. I thought it was rather special that the Secretary of State was very difficult to move in order to share this with the sector. In the meantime, he has promised the Chamber that he will present the current prices. I would ask him to do so, of course, with the current prices, on the basis of the current VAT rate. But I would also ask him to look at the prices based on the new reduced VAT rate before the summer of next year, so that we can appeal to the sector as to what that does with cost development.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u21	I have a question about the landlord's tax. We have talked a lot about this in the legislative consultation. This has also been discussed with colleagues on the residential side. I know that enlargement is attractive. At the same time, it must remain effective. Now I myself have an amendment to increase the budget, because it will make it easier to grant enlargement. I also have the coverage around by limiting the interest deduction. Structurally, after 2026, I do not give you any more than 13 million for the discount in the landlord's tax. Can I count on the support of the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u22	I know that the commuters are still engaged in the debate on this issue. I would like to discuss it further with my colleague on that file anyway. I've seen some things. I have also heard Mr Snels' questions about the reduction of interest subsidies. I understand Mr Snels' generosity. Another proposal from him, the liquidation scheme, has already been taken over. However, I do not want to anticipate the need to support this measure as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u23	This is very cryptic, so I don't know if it's a yes or a no. Looks like a no, I guess. Well, I guess I'd better interpret it that way. At the same time, I know that a very large part of the Chamber really likes that larger budget for that discount on the landlord's tax, including the coverage. The cover is fine in order, in the burden framework. It is also being returned to business, because that is how we see the housing corporations. Do Mrs Lodder's coalition partners have the space to make their own decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u24	The talks I have with my coalition partners are obviously not going to be held in this Chamber. You are asking me a question about the rule in question...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u25	"Mr. Snels is asking me a question."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u26	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u27	"Mr. Snels is asking me a question."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u28	Mr Snels is asking me a question about interest relief. I can't see what the consequences are right now, so I need time to do that. Maybe that's why I'm reacting cryptically. In any case, I am not yet cheering.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u29	Very good. You're continuing. I say to Mr Snels, that we are interrupting in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u30	Mr. Chairman. It is important that everyone can communicate with the Tax Administration in a good way. We've previously made it possible for the blue envelope to survive. The electronic messaging system is now ahead of us. I think it is important for the Chamber to remain involved in the elaboration. I think that the bill should provide that this can be done. I believe that Mr Omtzigt has made a number of comments on this in an earlier discussion. I am sure I can support that. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the tonnage regulation. That's a new point. I understand very recently from the sector that there may have been an unfortunate translation in the adaptation of the tonnage regime following the European decision. It says "profit," but in the discussion in the past there was talk of "gross turnover." Other countries, such as Germany and Denmark, are based on gross turnover. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State or the sector that this has been included in the transposition, or that this is not the case. I would like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. I have asked several questions about the conversion of the new measurement method to determine the emissions of cars and thus the level of the bpm. Let me just say that I am sorry that there is still a lack of clarity between the interpretation of the Secretary of State and that of the sector. What possibilities does the cabinet see for a neutral party, such as perhaps the Court of Auditors, to take a look at these calculations? It would be good for everyone if there was clarity about the conversion to WLTP. I ask the Secretary of State to make another attempt to remove the difference of opinion here in the Chamber but certainly also in a discussion with the sector. Last year, the climate agreement often discussed the promotion of electric transport and the affordability of the agreements. On the climate tables there were a number of aggravating measures. Fortunately, the cabinet has not adopted these measures, especially for the car driver, and driving remains affordable. My group remains concerned about the overstimulation of electric transport. It is good that the Secretary of State has indicated that we will continue to monitor this and that we will keep our finger on the pulse with the hand-to-the-crane system. We will probably come back to that next year, as soon as those first figures are known. Mr. Chairman. In the first period of the legislative consultation, I briefly started on the bpm refund scheme for target transport, which expires on 1 January 2020. I challenged the Secretary of State to pay a work visit there. I hope he's gonna do that and take a look in practice. At the moment it is simply not possible to use an electric car for that type of transport. We owe it to the sector to provide clarity. The Secretary of State has not yet been able to convince my group, so I ask him whether there is any possibility of meeting the sector. This concerns, in particular, the transport of target groups, especially cars used to carry wheelchairs. Last week, I also considered the effects of the rising ODE rate on SMEs, horticulture and public authorities such as schools and hospitals. In the Climate Agreement we have made agreements and my group supports them, but at the same time I ask the Secretary of State to monitor the consequences of rising tariffs, while paying attention to affordability and sustainability. Furthermore, I understand that it would help to open up the SDE++ scheme, but by asking this question here in this Chamber, I can already see the Secretary of State thinking: you should be with EZK in particular. So that's why I'm calling for this to be placed with his colleague from EZK. I think the budget is in two weeks' time. So that's where we're gonna ask that question. Mr. Chairman. Of the package of laws, the implementation of ATAD 2 still worries my group. This is a European directive that combats hybrid mismatches between both European Member States and between EU Member States and countries outside the EU. The first proposal of the law was consulted after which the documentation obligation was added. I think this is an unreal way of working. It's not the only law in which this happened. Also the withholding tax law has not been consulted. I would therefore like to say to the Secretary of State that this should not become a habit. In substance, therefore, my group is concerned about the impact on SMEs. The documentation obligation leads to a large administrative burden and I really want to be able to monitor the impact on the treatment of the next Tax Plan. I will certainly come back to this in the second term, but perhaps the Secretary of State can also reflect on this. Finally, there are two subjects which have been discussed in some detail, and this concerns the major problems relating to the childcare allowance and box 3. They're not on the agenda, so I'll be brief. Following the pressure from this Chamber, the Secretary of State decided to suspend the recovery of the unduly discontinued childcare allowance for the time being. And that's good. I understand that we will receive the report from the Donner Committee very soon, and we will certainly come to a close on this subject, but I would like to give you that. Then box three. That is one of those taxes that many people feel unfair and unlawful. That is confirmed in the hundreds of e-mails I have received in the last few days. We will come to the conclusion of the revision box 3. My group was surprised at the numbers mentioned, but I would like to return to that point in the discussion of the letter. For now, I would like to repeat my question that I asked earlier. There is a lot of social unrest about the level of taxation on savings. The Supreme Court has held that a supposed return of 4% in box 3 was not feasible without taking a risk or a high risk. Direction 2017 has changed that but it is still possible to ask the same question. Earlier, I asked the Secretary of State to have the General Court conduct an investigation to validate the Tax Administration's estimate. I ask that again now because I believe that this is precisely the right institution to seek advice. So I would like to ask the Secretary of State again for a response plus a commitment on this point. Then all the way to the end. There is an ambitious Tax Plan, the Tax Plan 2020. The burden on middle income is reduced and attractive measures are being taken for SMEs. There are still many ambitions ahead. I hope that, after this Tax Plan, we will be able to move on quickly, because as far as the VVD is concerned, we will reduce the burden even further, we will give entrepreneurs the opportunity to take action, we will tackle tax avoidance and we will make the tax system fair and fair to all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u31	Mrs. Lodders made a fine speech. There are a lot of things in it that I think I can agree to. What I also like is that she's so big on business. We'll share that, I think. In addition, she gave a number of criteria for what taxes should look like. I heard something about "fair and just" and "understandable." There's one hook on that for me. I would like to know whether Mrs Lodder thinks that the following is fair and fair, and, above all, understandable. That's this table. It can't be seen from the distance over the storage of renewable energy. Mrs. Lodders must have learned that there is a huge leap in the third disc. This, for example, hits the greenhouse horticulture very hard. That hits academic hospitals hard. That also hits a lot of companies in the middle category hard. My question is: does she think that is fair and fair, and also understandable? I am not, but I wonder if that can be explained to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u32	I asked questions about this during the WHO. I have also raised the issue now. A choice has been made in the Climate Agreement to install a slide in the ODE, in order to ensure that the burden will end up in business rather than people. That is what we have decided with each other, including in this Chamber. This seems to be a serious problem for a few sectors, particularly those falling into the third sector. That is why I asked questions about this to the Secretary of State. It cannot be the case that the objectives we are pursuing in the Climate Agreement are not being met for other reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u33	Then there's the big question. I have already tabled an amendment. I'm going to see how the Secretary of State responds to that, of course. But do you intend to support that amendment of mine?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u34	I have not yet gone through all the amendments. I know that you have tabled an amendment on this point, but I would first like to hear the reaction of the Secretary of State. But it is a dilemma that we stand for, because if you move into it, the bill will end up somewhere else.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u35	First of all, a word of appreciation. I appreciate the fact that the VVD also realizes that only stimulating housing in the Randstad, the Netherlands, will not help you out of the housing shortage. I hope we can come out together and make a good amendment. My question is about the fair distribution that the VVD advocates. Can Mrs Lodders just explain to me once again what is so just about making the highest incomes go forward, and the lowest incomes, the pensioners, the tenants, the beneficiaries, the least?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u36	This Tax Plan provides for an additional 3 billion in relief. This reduction is only used for middle incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u37	Mrs Lodders said that she considers a fair tax system to be very important. I agree with her. Then I think: the pension funds are in heavy weather and tenants have it very heavy, on average heavier than buyers. So what is the reason why this Tax Plan was deliberately chosen, as Mrs Lodders also points out, to say that those people may be lagging behind in relation to the highest incomes? What's right about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u38	We don't. In this Tax Plan we give substance to the agreements of the government agreement. In that we agreed to go to a two-disk system in 2021. That is a measure that we are putting forward for a year. At the same time, we are releasing 3 billion extra in this Tax Plan. That amount goes specifically to the middle incomes. You can make a different choice or consider it. It's okay. That may also be the difference between Mr Nijboer and me. But we think it is important for everyone to make progress. We are talking about the measures contained in the coalition agreement. And then we actually said last summer: we would like to focus on middle incomes. That is what we are doing with additional measures: the measures of 3 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u39	Fine. You're continuing. However, there is another question from Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u40	Yes, at this point, too. We also discussed this with Mrs De Vries of the VVD during the General Financial Reviews. Look, it's been a conscious choice to raise the lowest amount of income tax. The VVD deliberately chose to do that. I would ask the VVD spokesperson: is she also aware that many entrepreneurs and many small and medium-sized enterprises do not pay corporation tax, but rather income tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u41	I'm aware of that. There's a lot of IT entrepreneurs; that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u42	Is the VVD not concerned about the impact that these anti-social measures will have on small entrepreneurs, on SMEs? Because the VVD makes a flaming argument for SMEs here, but ultimately it does something really different in practice. Can we at least ask to monitor the impact of these measures on small businesses? Because the VVD seems to forget the small entrepreneurs in this story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u43	I think there is a very balanced package of measures. We bring forward the two-disk system, which was first planned for 2021, for a year. There is then 3 billion in burden relief for middle income in particular. I am actually very proud and I would think that the SP Group would also be satisfied with the 3 billion cuts we have. If we look at box 2, we see that the tax on profits is reduced to two tonnes and that it is reduced even further than in our coalition agreement. All in all, therefore, they are fine measures, including for SMEs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u44	That was immediately your term; very good. Then Mr Snels from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u45	Mr. Chairman. After two Mondays and many hours in legislative submission, I'm going to try to keep it a little shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u46	That's what I like to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u47	I shall begin with a few general remarks in advance. When dealing with the eight tax laws in this Tax Plan, I noticed that we have talked a lot about past misery that is not about the Tax Plan. This, of course, concerns, first of all, the surcharges for which the State Secretary has taken a measure, although there is no definitive solution yet, but it also applies to box 3. All our mailboxes are filled with messages from people who are going to come up with legal procedures again. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. How does he assess that while we are really dealing with legislation, we are dealing with the misery of the past that is just bothering people? What frustrates me in this, both at box 3 and at the surcharge system, is that we have known this for so long. We've known for so long that box 3 isn't working properly. We have known for so long that the supplement system is not working properly and that we should do something about it. The previous cabinet promised to reform all the tax system and paid 5 billion for it, but it didn't actually get there because it was too complex and complicated. This cabinet needs another billion or four in total in order to reduce the burden. But the real revision of the tax system has failed in a number of cabinet periods, and that really frustrates me. I am therefore looking forward to the explorations that will come in spring, so that a next cabinet can really do something about it. A second general remark. We have talked about it many times, but what strikes me now is that we have constantly received notes of amendment and amendments from all kinds of groups in recent days, still in the course of the debate. It's almost impossible to chase eight laws through the Chamber in such a short time. A great deal has already been said about this, and this is another sign of it, I would like to say to the Secretary of State. I really hope that next year when we start dealing with the Tax Plan, it will be just a few laws that we can treat properly. Because sometimes they are also very complex in law. We have noticed this in the legislative presentations over the last few weeks. In fact, at the end of my speech I come back to a number of amendments, which are still subject to considerable legal debate. Mr. Chairman. Then the contents. I can really limit myself to the main line. I have said before, in the legislative consultation, that there is a change of course if you compare this Tax Plan with last year's Tax Plan. Households have been given priority over business in reducing the burden; there is even an increase in the burden on business. The Vpb reduction has been postponed and remains at a higher rate compared to last year's path, so in fact we are voting in favour of a higher tax on profits, and that is what I already think is profit. We have also talked a lot about the CBS research. What about the effective tax burden? I think it is important that we come back to that when we discuss the Ter Haar Committee's report. I think it is important that we continue this investigation and perhaps periodically. But we'll take that back when the Ter Her Committee publishes. I really hope that will be the case by January at the latest. Then we're going to look more closely at how many big companies actually, effectively pay tax. Mr. Chairman. The greening package has also been more balanced when it comes to burden-sharing between households and businesses. Last year and also the year before, we had a lot of discussion about this. From the climate agreement, the steps that my group can support have been taken there. It can always be better, but these are steps forward compared to last year. I do have one more question, because during our examination of this whole package, of course, we have received the climate credit from the PBL, and you can see that the cabinet is not achieving its objectives. How does the Secretary of State view that? This was only part of the package contained in the Tax Plan, but an important part. I think it indicates that we really should take another look at the CO levy. It will not be available until next year at the latest in the Tax Plan, but if you look at the deficit in achieving the climate targets, I think that the cabinet should take a closer look at the design of that CO tax. The Secretary of State knows that my group is keen to take part in this. One more general point, which is about increasing inequality. I have also drawn attention to this earlier, especially when you see in the longer term that low incomes are constantly lagging behind high incomes and that middle incomes are a little in between. As far as I am concerned, this is also an important argument not to lower the top rate now. You might want to lower the rate for the first disc. This also gives more air for middle incomes and also fits better with the stories that the political leaders of CDA and VVD have told before. But I understand that this is a coalition agreement. At the same time, this Tax Plan also indicates that it is becoming increasingly difficult to pursue income policy. This is not so much about annual purchasing power figures, which can be taken with a grain of salt, but about the longer trends: income falling apart; high incomes, low incomes. That, of course, has something to do with the primary income process, let me just say: wages that are lagging behind while top salaries are rising. But we have fewer and fewer instruments to really effectively pursue income policy. I believe that this is important in order not to break up these relationships more and more. I would like to call on the Secretary of State to look at the explorations in the spring. Do we still have sufficient opportunities through the tax system to counteract and correct disproportionate purchasing power effects? That remains of great importance to my group. The same is true of the property inequality, actually an even bigger blind spot in this cabinet. By now, there are 37 billionaires in our country. They've improved 10% in a year. I believe they have about 180 billion by now. If you were to impose a 2% capital tax on those 37 billionaires alone, we could solve all the structural problems in education, youth care and the police. That does say something about how much power inequality has become. Over the last twenty or thirty years, we have had hardly any instruments to correct that lack of ability. There's nothing wrong with all the box 3 discussions. I also think that is important when we start thinking about the tax system for the future. Mr. Chairman. About box 3 still very concrete this. I understand that politics is always difficult, but you could easily increase the tax-free foot for savers in box 3 as of 1 January. Then you meet a lot of people, without working on the fictitiousities, but just by making the rates progressive. I understand that that is difficult for the VVD, but you could really meet a lot, a lot of people by January 1st. That does indeed mean that people with higher capacities are going to pay a bit more capital return tax. I do not understand what is against this except for reasons of political ideology. I'd like a response. Then there are two more specific issues, which I would like to confirm on the agenda of the explorations we will be discussing from spring onwards. The first is the landlord levy and the increasing burden on housing corporations. In reply to Mr Omtzigt's questions, I saw the sums from the written set that we received after the second legislative consultation. They were interesting, but very partial. It seems interesting to me to really look at these explorations into taxation and housing markets. How does that even work? Can we not deal with this more effectively and efficiently, and also more honestly? We can't settle that in this Tax Plan, but I think that's important for the exploration. The second more concrete point is the petition presented this afternoon by youth organisations for a fair price for meat. That was a well-founded proposal with a thick report by CE Delft underneath. We can raise the price of meat and at the same time meet lower incomes, we can meet farmers, we can lower the prices of fruit and vegetables. I thought that was an interesting proposal and I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. This issue may also be given a place in the spring explorations, in the context of greening and sustainability. Greening the tax system remains an important point of view of my group when it comes to tax policy. Mr. Chairman. A few more amendments. Now I'm going over my time. Five seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u48	Should be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u49	It's okay, it's legislation, Mr. Chairman. We have had a lot of discussion about the application of the discount on the landlord levy and quite a few parties in this Chamber want to broaden that application. The budget is only 100 million a year, although, of course, some flexibility has been given by the cabinet. But it remains a limited budget, while the housing shortage is high and a large part of the political groups would like a wider application. Now I had all that interrupting debate with the VVD. I have an amendment to limit interest relief to three years in the spirit of ATAD, because this is about an infinite transfer of interest. This allows us to increase the budget for the discount on the landlord's tax. I would like to get a response as to whether this is a sensible amendment in substance. In my view, it is in any case entirely in accordance with the budgetary frameworks of the cabinet. It remains within the burden framework. It stays even within the category of companies. Although you cannot call it a category, it remains within the category of companies. I understand that the VVD has to go over a bump in order to support such an amendment. But this is such a logical amendment and such a win-win for all the groups in this Chamber that I cannot imagine the VVD vetoing this amendment. The same applies to the support I would like from the other coalition groups for this amendment. I'd like a "judge chamber" from the secretary of state. Mr. Chairman. We have had a complicated discussion on the tax construction directive. In my view, this is an important directive that will help to change culture at consultative offices when it comes to designing constructions. The directive provides information on how constructions are all put together in Europe and is also exchanged. I think that's really important. At the same time, I thought we had some disagreement as to whether the way in which the cabinet has now transposed the directive into law is entirely in line with the directive. Firstly, there is the main benefit test: do constructions have to be artificial or partly artificial? The Secretary of State made that impression quite clear in the explanatory statement, in the written replies and also in the debate. In the end, he admitted in the time of the legislative consultation that I was right that it should not necessarily be artificial or partly artificial. I think we're very close together and mean the same thing. However, I have made an amendment to that effect for the sake of certainty and clarity, because a law eventually comes into the Official Journal and everyone needs to know where they stand. Are we now in agreement on the substance? Then what is the problem with the clarification "there was apparently a lack of clarity "as I proposed in an amendment? A second lack of clarity... It's not a lack of clarity, it's a difference of opinion. My estimate is that this sector of tax advisors, which is so creative in designing constructions, is also creative enough to circumvent the reporting obligation, because taxpayers use a tax advisory office outside the European Union and use an auxiliary advisor to avoid and avoid part of the reporting obligation. Do we have a different assessment of the creativity of this sector? I have tried to shape my amendment in such a way, very limited, that it must be intentional behaviour by the taxpayer. So he really needs to know that this way he would circumvent the reporting obligation. I don't think it could be a very large increase in additional reports. I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State in the comments on my amendments. I think we're very close together, but we're not quite there yet. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u50	Thank you. Then Mr Omtzigt of the CDA group. You have 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u51	Mr President, it is legislation. I know everyone looks weird, but eight laws are being dealt with here. In this respect, I would like to support my colleague Mr Snels. The scope of the legislation is such that I have 20 to 30 centimetres of printed documents from the last few weeks that are included here in files alone. This is going to lead, I say to my colleagues, to overlook one or two or three things that we are going to have an urgent debate on next year. I'd like to avoid that. Mr. Chairman. Taxation has an enormous impact on the organization of society and on our society. When a tax feels unjust, it can be disruptive. If you can avoid or limit a tax, it's very controlling. And that effect is not unknown to politics. We are eager to use this fiscal instrumentalism here. In the labour cut, in the tax addition of electric cars, in the energy tax and in many other places we think we can control the behaviour of taxpayers. That can sometimes be effective, but it also has major disadvantages. Justice comes under pressure if not all taxpayers have an action perspective to go along with the desired behaviour, for example because they cannot afford a new electric car, cannot use less gas because they are in a rental house, or because one of the two partners is unable to work. In this plan a historic step has been taken to reduce the self-employed deduction. We do this not because there are no reasons to promote entrepreneurship, but because entrepreneurship has changed over time and the great tax advantage has led to less attractive employment for employers and employees. And by the way, the DBA Act has also become completely impossible, because of that big difference. I'm just looking at the Secretary of State for Finance. But that employment does provide the security that also benefits society. In order to ensure that entrepreneurs do not decline only relatively, but absolutely in euros, the reduction in working hours will be greatly increased. Only this in turn has the effect that it does not only put the self-employed at some disadvantage, which is the intended effect here, but also only earners and people who can only partially work. A single earner with an income just above the average, who, on his own, maintains an entire family, receives one job discount, rather than two employment discounts for a family with two working parents. And someone in the Wajong who does his utmost to work as much as possible doesn't get the full employment discount, unless he gets that grant paid by his employer. There are a number of desks that do that. Then he can give the full employment discount in one go. Can the Secretary of State state state whether he considers it desirable that a Wajanger or someone who is partially disabled, who works fully but has a somewhat low hourly income, should also be eligible for the full employment discount? I wonder how we're gonna find a way into that. If you want to stimulate certain behavior and you put it into a model, it results that the bigger and more specific the incentive, the more taxpayers are going to show the other behavior. And when that incentive is tuned very precisely on the income where according to the model the most effect is expected, then it pays almost no more to start earning more. That's what you're going to see in other policy areas now. Let me give you an example. The second partner actually pays no tax on the first €20,000, and then the marginal rate becomes over 50%. This applies when there is a small child in play and you have the income-dependent combination discount. I have already lost 90% of the Netherlands, and that is one problem. This method of tax payment has a direct effect in education, where large groups of people know that part-time work is much more attractive than full-time work, because you get a lot more net salary from the first half of your work week than from the second half of your work week. And we have to take a very close look at that, because that marginal pressure has to be reduced, also in order to combat the shortage of teachers. Of course, it is a good thing that this Tax Plan reduces the burden on labour for all workers and de facto increases the burden on capital. That's a sensible line. Over the last 20 years, capital charges have fallen sharply and labour charges have increased mainly for the middle class in recent years. So here comes a turn of events. And, Mr. Chairman, I'd like to come back to those models one more time. Right now, you're supposed to be omniscient. There is only one omniscient and these are not the citizens of the Netherlands. They certainly do not know what will happen if they earn €100 more. It sounds crazy, but if you want someone to get excited, at least he needs to know what the incentive is. So I asked teasing: can we have a tool somewhere, so you know how much you'll be able to make approximately $100 more, for example because you have to work an extra day? Such a tool cannot be built in the Netherlands. We have so many arrangements that one person doesn't have $10 left over, while there are also people who have the full €100 left over. How do we ever think people can be so excited? They are stimulated to uncertainty. This is modelual instrumentalism. But there is another drawback of this modelical instrumentalism: legal certainty does not fit in with the model. In the model, every taxpayer knows perfectly how much he gets and can assess exactly the tax consequences of more works. But reality is more uncomfortable. If you work a little extra, the first congratulations you get is a letter from the Tax Department that includes a decision and an acceptance giro to pay back a piece of your surcharges. Yesterday we found out how many people that affects: 300,000. 300,000 people have received a compulsion claim from the Supplements Service. But this legal uncertainty does not fit in our models, because we know exactly what is happening. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State what's going to happen. A great simplification of the system has a lot of positive effects that do not come out of the model: greater clarity and awareness for taxpayers, less stress and unexpected problems for taxpayers and better feasibility for the Tax Administration. Until a major simplification of the system is possible, the results of the models should not be one, but the citizen: the taxpayer. In March, the Chamber adopted my motion to investigate the relationship between the Tax Administration and the citizen. That investigation was due to start this fall. Now that it has not started, I would like to make a few proposals so that the Secretary of State may send a detailed plan to the Chamber. The Secretary of State and his senior officials of the Supplements Service were shocked when they finally spoke to the parents who lived at welfare level for years through the fraud investigation under the CAF-11 case and the legal opposition of the Tax Administration, and probably wrongly. This kind of thing intervenes very deeply in people's lives. Parents had to work less or lost their jobs. Cars were seized and wages seized, with all the financial consequences. The psychological effects are great. Parents began to doubt themselves, to the host parents, to the host parents' office, but ultimately mainly to the government. Relationships broke down. People lost their jobs, got depressed and had to be treated. The relationship between the citizen and the Tax Administration is much more broken in some groups in Dutch society than many people think. People who are in trouble cannot get direct contact via the Tax Phone. I've spoken to a number of people who work at the Tax Phone these days, because you can talk to both sides. They indicated that the accessibility of the Tax Telephone on the day on which the surcharges are received is less than 40%. Work assignments with callback requests are often not fulfilled by the understaffing at the office Fees. So people don't get called back. And because the accessibility is poor, the recovery line is full. If people wait 20 to 30 minutes, they'll be told to call back later. The attempt to repay a surcharge is unclear. People don't understand or read the letter. They transfer the remaining amount and then there will be no settlement. This leads to recovery costs and enforcement. That'll get you up to 300,000 people. At the Tax Phone there is a separation between processes and laws and regulations. Combined with staff training, this means that people are transferred four or five times before they are in the right department. The DACAS system is malfunctioning. This means that the adjustments are not visible to the people who have to answer. So they don't even know if the amounts they're calling are right. Letters are sent with mistakes in them. We have half a billion extra available for the child-related budget because it went wrong with the regulation. And what does the IRS do? He's asking for the child-related budget himself. So people get a letter saying "you have requested a child-related budget" and they think: huh, I didn't ask for anything at all. So even if it's good news, we don't know how to bring it nicely. This is what I was told when I spoke to some people for a half hour about the Supplements service. There's another way to do this. This could be better. That is why I ask the Secretary of State if the researchers want to talk to the official summit, to the employees on the work floor and to people who have been in trouble for years at the Tax Office through recovery, seizure and legal proceedings. I also express my hope that the investigation will be led by an independent person of great stature, such as an ex-Ombudsman, a former substitute ombudsman or a former judge at the Supreme Court. Yesterday, the Donner Committee announced that it will finally present a report on Thursday. We will deal with this separately and comprehensively here. Making mistakes for years, acting illegally and covering that up is very serious. Yesterday, my colleague from the SP was our wish for her strength now that she is at home, but she will undoubtedly be well replaced at the Tax Office in Rotterdam. There were parents there who spent years on the minimum standard of living and wanted to see their file. They had no right of access. Is the GDPR not in order at the Tax Office or is something being disguised? These people can just see their files, can't they? Even if they made a mistake; none of that matters. You're entitled to your file. Is that gonna be taken care of? Let me be clear: I expect a full account of the facts. I want to know exactly who made a decision to act illegally at the IRS. I would also like to know when senior officials, the Secretary of State and the Ministers have been informed of this. Would you also indicate whether the Ministerial Committee was involved in the fight against fraud? Mr. Chairman. I come to a number of measures. There are a lot of them, so that's why I have some extra speaking time. The blue envelope.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u52	Let's take a break with Mr. Snels first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u53	I know that Mr Omtzigt appreciates an interruption. We are going to resume the discussion on the reform of the surcharge system and the tax system when we get the explorations, but I would like to ask the following political question. Of course, the supplement system came from the CDA's case. We have seen in an earlier cabinet that the VVD opposed income-dependent care contributions. Is it conceivable to abolish the allowances? Let us look above all at the child care allowance and the care allowance without making childcare free and without income-dependent care contributions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u54	We currently have income-dependent care contributions. Half of our premium is nominal and half of the premium is income-dependent. If you change that, if you make that more income dependent, you need less care allowance. I understand that's an option, and that option is not indisputable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u55	That is indeed a step to the left for the CDA. I am glad, because I think it is necessary to get rid of the surcharges. What about the childcare allowance? How do you feel about free childcare?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u56	We're not from free childcare. That's gonna cause other problems. I am particularly sorry, but I would nevertheless like to refer Mr Snels to the coalition agreement. This coalition also supported the idea of turning the childcare allowance into a parental contribution. That is one of the biggest challenges. It did not succeed in terms of implementation, and as a result we still have the childcare allowance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u57	Finally, Mr President, this debate is coming back. I find it so easy for VVD and CDA to say that we have to get rid of the surcharges, without taking into account the fact that we have them because we have to pay the rents and the high costs of childcare and care. In my opinion, the only way to get rid of the child care allowance is to make public services free of charge or income dependent, because with a parent contribution you get exactly the same problem. There's no difference. I don't think there's any other route.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u58	This income-dependent financing is now done through the surcharges. Let me be clear: the CDA is not for free childcare or free extracurricular care. It just doesn't seem like an option because of the costs involved. We're gonna go over the ibo report on the surcharges. One of the options in it is based on an already established income, the so-called t-2 option. In the past, the rent subsidy also depended on t-1.5. That's a little complicated, but it's about an income from a year and a half ago. That's for sure. Because that income is established, you suffer from much less recovery. There is one drawback, namely that people's relationships and incomes change, and that a complex safety net system must be established in the event of a severe income drop. Then the Secretary of State looks at me hard again: that is also complicated. There are no free, easy options here. If GroenLinks here takes the easy option and wants to abolish all fees, I assure you that for the people with the lowest incomes and the highest rents a form of compensation in the rents and a form of compensation in other costs will be necessary in order not to include them in a certain minimum.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u59	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u60	Mr. Chairman. I'm coming up on the blue envelope. It is good that it is now finally recorded that the blue envelope remains. Not everyone can get on the Internet. It's good news, but exceptions remain possible. That's right, but if the government wants to use such an exception, it has to ask for permission from the Chamber. That is why, together with the VVD, we are tabling an amendment on this point. By the way, it can also be very positive if an exception expires. To name just one group: taxpayers abroad would often like to be able to make an electronic declaration. Mrs Lodders is very happy, I see; she jumps a hole in the air. When will it finally be settled that Dutch taxpayers living abroad can apply for a DigiD from there and make a safe electronic declaration? I can assure you that this group, and especially people living in certain countries with unreliable postal systems, is very keen to see that the blue envelope is not mandatory. Mr. Chairman. Then box three. The Secretary of State has clearly stated that he considers box 3 European law to be sustainable in 2020. I welcome that clear answer, because I expect massive objections to be raised by 2020. I ask the Secretary of State to state whether, following the ruling of the Supreme Court in June 2019, which saw the system in force until 1 January 2017, he has also sought new advice on the sustainability of the system since 1 January 2017. If not, is he willing to do so? If so, does that give him enough comfort? If the answer is no, my group is also considering having the parliamentary lawyer ask for an opinion on the period since 2017. Mr. Chairman. I agree with Mr Lodders: we could ask the General Court if 2016 and 2015 could yield sufficient returns. I see the Secretary of State is going to ask for his own legal advice. Could we know what that legal advice is and who it is being asked from? Otherwise, we will be asking for many legal advice until we like it, and then we will all end up with the Supreme Court. Mr. Chairman. Then the emergency braking procedure. Fiscal stimulation also has limits to effectiveness. Directors with an electric lease car will buy a polluting car just as easily tomorrow as it is cheaper again. There is not enough commitment from the taxpayer, no internal motivation. What is effective is European resource policy. Producers now have to sell electric cars, because otherwise they will receive large fines. The question is: if you add a lot of tax incentive to that, are you carrying water to the sea? This is also the reason why the Climate Agreement has not only agreed to increase the add-on from 4% to 8% to 12% to 16%, but also to introduce a tax emergency braking procedure. If the number of sales is more than €15,000 higher than... Sorry, over 15,000. I'm talking about numbers. If it were about euros, you'd have very few cars. If the number of sales is more than 15,000 higher than in the growth path, the addition increases faster than is currently agreed. But couldn't that just be 10,000? And for taxpayers, of course, it is always annoying when a tax advantage is lower than expected. It is therefore quite important that the emergency brake be made more widely known. Can the Secretary of State indicate the limit of the 15,000 plus the ingrowth path per year, or of 10,000 plus the ingrowth path, which seems to me to be a good deviation, because 15,000 is very large and how much is the addition going up? That helps the predictability. And how is this known to people who are going to buy a car? My prediction is that we are already going through the border this year and are going to have another discussion next year. Then we cannot wait too long to inform, and we must do so carefully. Mr. Chairman. Then the housing corporations. Our colleagues are working to ensure that the discount on the landlord's tax can take place in places where there are problems with housing. I heard a nice list. The city of Enschede had forgot for a while, but that must be because of something. It needs to be spread out better. There will be a proposal for an amendment from the coalition spokesmen to this effect, and I believe that others will also be involved. That need is very high and it is right that the government should open up there. The Secretary of State has to give us a comparison of what a housing corporation pays and what a private landlord pays. It is clear that a housing corporation that rents a property of €600 pays more tax than a private landlord, who can rent this property for much more money. Yet a few points gnaw at the calculation. I would therefore like to have an additional calculation. Because the Secretary of State is looking at the comparability of taxpayers, while I am talking about similar homes. For a tenant it doesn't matter who the landlord is, as long as there is only one property to be found at a certain price. So I'm looking for the situation where the landlords aren't comparable. It is not logical to assume that a private landlord has 51 properties below the social rental border, and to compare this landlord with a landlord with 50 exempted properties and 1 non-detached property. That man or woman has 7.8 million in box 3. So does the Secretary of State want to compare a landlord with his partner, say, who owns and rents five properties? It may be taken into account that in box 3 there is a turnoff at the low rent. You'll have to add less. In addition, I ask the Secretary of State in which cases a foreign investor has to pay box 3 charges. In the comparison, the foreign investor had to pay box 3 tax. I wasn't aware that foreign investors are paying for it. For the private landlord with an e.g., it does not seem very logical to assume that it falls into the high Vpb rate. The landlord's tax is the same in the State Secretary's calculation for a house of €153,000 and a house of €300,000, but the tax is actually set at €270,000. Can the Secretary of State send a further comparison? Mr. Chairman. I come to a subject that has already been part of a brief debate between the VVD and the SGP. That is the shift of the energy load in the third disc ODE. It goes up 177%. I would like to know what the Secretary of State is going to do as entrepreneurs in greenhouse horticulture who have switched to electricity, and we would also like to go back to gas in the climate agreement in the middle of the year. That wasn't supposed to happen, was it? This slide could therefore work in exactly the wrong direction for a particular group. It can also have effects on hospitals and schools. Why doesn't this group immediately get decent access to the SDE++ so that it can continue to do the right things? Can the government take care of that? And can the government keep a very close hand on the wrist? Because if we get exactly the effects that we do not want under the Climate Agreement, this instrumentalism, which I have previously distanced, is going to work in the wrong direction. Mr. Chairman. In the legislative consultation, the Secretary of State indicated on the subject of waste that he would sit down with the waste industry to look seriously at an alternative. That would be worth something to me, because I'm not waiting for falling garbage ovens. They're all in public hands, too. In addition, the transport of all this waste, including additional CO emissions, will be added. So has the waste industry put a decent solution on the table? Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to the handicapped vans. Yes, there are over 50 measures. I assume you memorized them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u61	You can always question me, but not now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u62	I think I'd better hear about the police reports here in The Hague, Mr. President. The handicapped vans. Last year the bpm refund for taxis, and thus also for disabled vans, was deleted. This seems to be moving a little fast. Electric cars are certainly available, but decent electric buses with a decent range, so that you can drive them all day as a taxi driver, are not, and that is very annoying outside the cities. Can the Secretary of State state whether there is still a method for disabled transport companies to continue supporting them until these buses are actually available in the coming year? This support can also depend on the desired behaviour. So I do not propose to encourage the most polluting and most used vans. Mr. Chairman. VAT on electronic publications goes down, so your digital newspaper subscription will be cheaper. The Secretary of State's answer was also nice. If you have taken a three-year subscription to De Telegraaf for €100 per year, according to the State Secretary's reply, this means that they can only charge €90 next year. You have made an appointment with 21% VAT, but it goes to 9%, so that means that the agreed invoice must be over 10% lower than it was. That's a clear answer, Secretary of State. We're gonna follow if that happens. But you know what happens in this country. If you increase VAT, all prices will go up on 1 January. We don't have to make that difficult at all. But if you lower the VAT, we don't see any very large reductions; we sometimes looked at hairdressers and bike makers. We do not immediately see why newspaper publishers are going to show very different behavior. We just got a letter saying that it's very difficult to put all that together. Yet we ask you to do so. But you can do it differently. Call the Authority Consumer and Market and ask for a publication of the list of current prices. Also ask the Authority Consumer and Market to report back in March on what happened, with naming-and-shaming, in both the newspapers and magazines and the school books sector. Because we do tax cuts for the public, not for large publishing companies. Mr. Chairman. In the context of the documentation obligation, we welcome the Secretary of State's undertaking that a taxable person with no foreign relations at most will never receive the documentation obligation unless he knew of a hybrid mismatch passed on in price. I can't imagine the latter happening to real entrepreneurs, because these kinds of constructions fit letterbox companies. I trust that the tax authorities will adhere to this commitment by the Secretary of State, because only if a group is specific enough will such a far-reaching obligation on taxpayers be sustainable. The thing that is not there is not to be proved as a taxable person. Mr. Chairman. I am not yet satisfied with the answers to the questions on VAT on parallel imports, so I will come back to that. No VAT will be paid on all used cars in the Netherlands, at least if they are over 6 months old and there are more than 6,000 kilometres on the counter. That's a pretty big VAT hole. As far as the WLTP is concerned, I just want to join my colleague in the VVD. It seems that the comparison between 2017 and 2018, when a lot more bpm comes in at once, simply leads to more expensive cars. This will lead to more parallel imports and lost revenue in the Netherlands. Can the Secretary of State check this again, if necessary through monitoring or a real investigation? My question as to whether there are previous versions of the TNO report has not yet been answered and I would like it answered. Mr. Chairman. With regard to loan assistance, the Secretary of State announced that people who had undue recovery could receive compensation, but little use has been made of it. Together with the PvdA we asked for that arrangement. Can there be more publicity now that the money's not up? Can we ensure that this arrangement remains open for another six months, so that we can look at it with a campaign? I would like the possibilities of scholarships to be put together in a particular leaflet. What can an employer spend on scholarships? I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the performance test of the unwound foot. I got it through SZW's secretary of state. But it said that there has been another execution test and we haven't seen it yet. Can I know how old this execution key is? This execution test says: if certain things are done before 1 March 2019, then it is all feasible. This means that this execution test must have been at least from February 2019. And what am I supposed to do ten months later with a performance test if I don't know if those benchmarks have been met? So I would like to have a complete overview of those execution tests. I also want to know if all these deadlines have been met, because otherwise the unwound foot will slip further away. Mr. Chairman. I'm still waiting on the Customs documents. We'd like to know what's going on with the corruption at Customs. That's what we asked as a committee. The same applies to the letter containing the answers to the parliamentary questions about the rent allowance and people who have passed through the rental limit. That's just a court ruling, but the Tax Office hasn't been able to implement it yet. Mr. Chairman. We are tabling two amendments. One is about the blue envelope. The other concerns training expenditure. We believe that training expenses should only be abolished per KB. Why should it only be abolished in this way? That is because we want to make sure that the new regulation works well and that there is no publicity before that. Mr. Chairman. It is, of course, far-reaching that we finally have a withholding tax law. The Netherlands is still in the top two of transit countries. I would like the Netherlands no longer to be found in the top five. Would the government like to tell us annually what steps it is taking to drop out of the top five of transit countries? Of course, we have flowing through our multinationals using the treasury function. It doesn't have to be zero. It's all very simple. The flow that is there must simply have to do with real activities or planned activities that make sense in companies, but should no longer have anything to do with certain constructions that we have. Does the Secretary of State share that we should fall from that summit? Does he want to take steps for that every year? Mr. Chairman. I would like to receive an overview from the Secretary of State every spring of all the tax measures in the Climate Agreement. How's that going? Are we achieving the targets? Are we gonna get the targets with the money? Do you need money? Can you do it with less money? We hope, of course, for the latter, for example, because there is technological progress. That is what we want to hear in the spring, either on Wednesday, meatloaf or the spring note. That way we can recalibrate towards the tax plan. Is it possible to do such a thing, I ask the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u63	I think everyone likes to achieve everything, including climate goals, as cost-effectively as possible. I'm just trying to make sure I understand Mr Omtzigt's proposal. He says we should see if we can reach the targets with less resources. But I suppose he's suggesting that we do that in balance, right? If it turns out we're not achieving the goals, it could also mean we need to do a little more, right? That's the balance, isn't it? Do I understand the proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u64	Yeah, well, then you'll understand the proposal. I hope, of course, that it can be done with less resources, because that means that the overall burden can be reduced. But sometimes it can mean stepping up on certain issues. The goals are at the forefront of this. It may also be taken into account whether certain measures meet the secondary objectives. I would like to give an example of what Mr Van Weyenberg might be talking about: electric driving. If these cars are not too heavy, they also have some side-benefits, as we shall say in the emissions of particulate matter and noise. So it can be slightly more expensive per euro subsidy. And on biomass, after today's statements by the First Chamber, there will also have to be reported. I am now looking at Mr Van Raan, who is shining all over the place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u65	Thanks to Mr Van Weyenberg!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u66	Thank you, I say to colleague Van Raan. I think we made the agreement in the Climate Agreement to see if biomass was effective. This is good news. When we discuss the CO levy in industry and electricity in a moment, it is important that we look carefully at whether the whole concept is secure enough, so that we do what Mr Omtzigt just says. As far as I am concerned, the motto, at least by the D66 Group, is that the goals of coûte que coûte must be met. We'll adapt if we need to. If it's possible with less, please. If there's more to it, we'll do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u67	Yeah, we're tied to the targets. We've learned expensive lessons. That is why we are also pleased that we are both encouraging and saying electric driving: we are doing this wisely. That means raising the add-on, because it must also be feasible and affordable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u68	I agree with the previous speaker, Mr Van Weyenberg. Is Mr Omtzigt aware that, as far as we know, the targets we were talking about are not being met in any way? So is Mr Omtzigt, with that science, prepared to make plans with the Party for Animals for that space he just gave on Mr Van Weyenberg's question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u69	We keep adjusting our plans. I am by nature not the most optimistic person in this Chamber. I have to admit that quite frankly. I'm even a little bit of a black-eyed sometimes. That's what they're blaming me for. But you can see how fast certain things are going, for example how fast progress in car mobility has been. We've seen a constant underestimation of the positive effects. I hope and I suspect that putting pressure on Europe together will bring technological progress. It was a wish of two parties that you may not see as the most friendly towards the climate targets, the VVD and the CDA. They said: do the flight tax, but do it European. They also say: even if it is not in the models, do something about shipping. Look at what's being burned in the great canyon. There are much bigger quick wins to achieve, if you are interested in real emissions instead of model emissions. There's just talk about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u70	A follow-up question. That's right: some things go much faster than you might think. It is also true that Mr Omtzigt is not the most optimistic Member of Parliament. I'm just trying to figure out what conclusions I can draw.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u71	Yeah, that's what I'm wondering.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u72	He says on the one hand: I think it's actually going much faster. Science doesn't give him the right to do that for a while. In fact, yesterday there was a long article in the New York Times in which a whole timeline was given showing that scientists constantly underestimate climate change, actually since 1980. In that science I'm still looking... Mr Omtzig is now hiding behind the idea that things might be faster, knowing that this is not the case at all on some really crucial points. I'm sure we can talk about that. I'd like to hear that from him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u73	We will continue to talk about this. That's why I wanted that annual update. Then we can see what's going on. By the way, some optimism: 20 years ago there were terrible stories here about that hole in the ozone layer. So some optimism that we can do it sometimes... And then, of course, you take the US as an example, which has now withdrawn from the Treaty of Paris. There's also a big difference between doing nothing and doing what. I'll read the article in the New York Times. I haven't read the New York Times today. Mr. Chairman. It's a big tax plan. I expect a few clear commitments from the Secretary of State. But it is a good step that we have some reduction in the burden. That is what the Netherlands desperately needs. You won't hear from me any hallelujah stories that it's 95% of the population, ex post, because then I know exactly where we're gonna end up. But we see certain pieces go down a bit. That is good news, because in the end every euro in this country must be earned through very hard work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u74	I commend Mr Omtzigt for his precise treatment of legislation. That's important, too. But for a moment I threatened to allow myself to see sand sprinkled in my eyes. Not by Mr Omtzigt, you know, because you just have to stay sharp yourself. I still want to get to the main choices in this Tax Plan. Of course, we've just discussed a lot of laws. All good work. But why does the CDA support the main choice to allow mainly benefit recipients, elderly and tenants to improve their income relatively less than those with the highest incomes? That's because of the flat tax. Under the line, these people are much less advanced than those with the highest incomes. Why is that fair according to the CDA?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u75	All groups are improving by more than 1%. I still say: in the models. So with some caution. I would, however, like to correct some of the misunderstandings that have arisen here in the debate. The first misunderstanding is that because of the first disc that goes up slightly, the low-income people pay much more. In fact, the income you need before you start paying taxes will rise by over €1,000 in the next two years towards the €8,500, so out of my mind, because the general tax discount, which everyone gets, is going up sharply. In fact, the general tax discount is no longer available if you earn more than €40,000. So it's a concession that only ends up with the lower incomes. I challenge the PvdA Group to indicate in what other periods that it also grew up in itself it managed to make everyone a little bit better. As far as his comment is concerned, the highest incomes are the most advanced. By speeding up the introduction of the flat tax, the benefit of the lower rate has been taken up at once and the disadvantage that only the highest tariff group has, namely that the deductions will soon be at the standard rate of 37% and not 49.5%, will be introduced in three years. And they'll find out for the next two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u76	Well, there's a bit of a smokescreen being pulled out. Under the line, you just see that the lowest incomes, i.e. tenants, pensioners and benefit recipients, are up 1.3% and the highest incomes are up 2.3%. If you have gross €20,000 per year, that is net €20 in the month and if you have a ton net €200 in the month. And I just don't think that's fair. This is partly due, as Mr Omtzigt admits, to an accelerated reduction in the top rate, and this is partly due to an increase in the rate for the first disc. That makes it even more unjust than it would otherwise be. I find it very strange that the CDA supports that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u77	People who earn the minimum wage will not be able to advance €200 this year because they pay less than €200 tax. We have substantially reduced this by increasing both the general tax rebate and the labour rebate. In that respect, it certainly pays off. The PvdA thinks that if you give an answer that is longer than two sentences about our current tax policy, you'll throw up a smokescreen. If you give an answer that is shorter than two sentences, then you're sure you're doing simplistic comparisons and you're using one-liners, which the chairman is also very good at in other capacities, for which I also commend him. But the tax system is just too complicated for that. By the way, simplifying this is a very nice challenge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u78	Nice warm words at the end. Then Mr Alkaya of the SP Group, who is acting as a substitute today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u79	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by wishing my fellow party member Renske Leijten well. She had a little accident yesterday and had to go to the hospital this morning. She's fine, but she'll be home. So I will try to replace her as best I can in this here and there technical debate. Moreover, I am a member of the Committee on Finance and not quite a stranger in this area, but still. When you give a round on the terrace, you pay more taxes than Shell does in a whole year's profit in the books. That is the result of policy. This is the result of choices made by the Dutch Government. A policy that states that if business goes well, then it automatically goes well with citizens. But we see the consequences of this policy everywhere: it is not right. Parts of the public sector stop almost weekly. Hardworking people can barely pay their energy bills and health insurance and there is almost no affordable house left in the Netherlands, rent or purchase. The company pampering through three Cabinets-Rutte clearly shows what the Netherlands stands for: the market economy and the shareholder above all. I now turn specifically to a number of parts of it. Let me start with a subject that has also been the subject of a number of debates, namely the accelerated introduction of the two-disk system. That is exemplary for all of this. Anyone who earns double or even more money is making the most progress. On balance, if we include all the discounts and income taxes in this complex system, the lowest income will indeed pay less tax, but I would like to make a few comments. Firstly, these discounts are very different from the rates of taxation. They vary more often per year, while tax rates are more structural in nature. Next year, this cabinet will be able to reduce the discounts in the case of opposing finances, and away will be the advantage for the lowest incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u80	Can Mr Alkaya tell me one year from the last 15 years in which the government has substantially reduced the general tax rebate and the labour rebate? Because if we've seen one thing, it's constantly rising.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u81	If you look at it structurally, you can see in the books that the tax rates are more structural. You're with the CDA. Isn't it the CDA's plan to introduce the two-disk system? It goes without saying that the adjustment of the rates of the tax brackets is much more structural in nature. And the adjustment or correction of those tax rates is done more often, isn't it? Mr Omtzig is well aware of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u82	Both are adjusted once a year. That's what happens with the Tax Plan. So there's really no difference. So here the SP creates a difference that is not there. I haven't known a single year! (b) where the tax rebates have been adjusted more than once. I invite him to come with a year. Nor do I know of any year in which rates have been adjusted in the meantime. That's exactly the same thing. And the tax rebates have increased year by year. The fact that he does not like the income section is thus to date, but if he pretends here that this would not be a structural subsidy or a structural reduction, then he is really failing the Dutch tax system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u83	It is not a question of whether these discounts are increasing, but it is a question of whether those discounts are increasing enough to improve people's purchasing power, even if you take economic growth into account. We see year after year that purchasing power is lagging behind. The discounts may therefore rise, but they do not rise enough to make people feel economic growth. Mr Omtzig challenges me. I challenge him, and I challenge the people at home...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u84	No, no, no, you're not going to challenge anyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u85	Why wouldn't I challenge you, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u86	Because he's gonna answer, and we don't need that. No, an interruption is a one-way street.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u87	Let me then challenge everyone who is following this debate to see when that disk system has last been modified. That is much more structural in nature. And once we establish that people in the lowest category are going to pay more tax on their income, that is much harder to adjust than those discounts, which are still a little more uncertain. They may rise, as I have said, but everyone feels at home that the purchasing power has been left behind, despite Mr Omtzigt's discounts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u88	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u89	Mr President, the purchasing power was the ailment...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u90	We'll do the interruptions in two. I'm sorry. You're continuing, Mr. Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u91	Maybe he'll come back to that challenge later, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u92	You never know, you never know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u93	Secondly, consumption taxes have risen sharply in recent years. Then, of course, I'm talking about the taxes we pay on what we all buy. The VAT discs have both increased: the high rate of 16% and the low rate of 50%. Energy taxation has also increased for all households. Both, both VAT and energy taxes, affect everyone equally. But especially with the lowest income groups, which are already struggling, this is the hardest. And if you put all these tax measures together, is it a tax cut? Have we had to deal with a tax reduction in recent years? I think a lot of people at home feel it's right: no. All in all, it has been a burden shift in which citizens and, above all, the lowest incomes are again paid, while businesses are mainly spared. Then specifically the measures in the area of climate. Climate policy can only be described by one word, and that is 'unfair'. We've known for years that people can barely afford their energy bills. In the meantime, there is even talk of energy poverty. People have to consider whether they can turn up the heating at home, whether they can cook or take a hot shower. Then I ask myself and the cabinet: isn't this the kind of climate policy we should have in mind here in the Netherlands? Energy taxation continues to increase for everyone, while it is clear that the lowest incomes are already struggling and industry is barely paying taxes on other roads. That is what the cabinet is doing, and that is good, but why was the climate measures not chosen to make fairer choices and not to burden the people at home? Of all the climate subsidies available to citizens, 80% of the richest people in the Netherlands are affected. No wonder that aid for this type of measure will be reduced. The fact that more than 11 billion will be spent next year on burning wood in power plants, biomass plants, is already bizarre, because it is hardly beneficial to the climate, but it is completely insane when we realise at the same time that €0.0 will be available for the sustainability of social housing, which is often flawed. I have already drawn attention to this in several debates. The cabinet should not let the big polluters go free and chase the ordinary motorist out of his car. It should not be possible to "fly more" but at the same time give a fine, so that people at home cannot use it at all, so that it becomes another luxury product. It's about making the right choices in any policy area. You don't have to present the bill to the ordinary people at home, for example for the climbing measures. Then live specifically. The housing crisis in the Netherlands is becoming increasingly alarming. Row houses already cost tons, sometimes a million, and meanwhile the waiting lists for the still existing social housing have become bizarre proportions. The housing corporations can barely maintain their homes, let alone improve to reduce energy consumption. They can hardly build new houses. Because the landlord levy simply remains in place, while it was a crisis measure. A tenant at a corporation pays more than €66 per month in rental tax. So that amount goes to the treasury. At the same time, we pay rent allowances to the same people via the surcharge system, which is of course bizarre. That is why we have an amendment to reduce this landlord's tax, for the umpteenth time. I am convinced that it will eventually go away from the table. Yesterday, the Christian Union and the CDA spoke about this in the debate on housing. Well, let's settle that now. We're richer now than ever. Surely this is the right time to lift a measure introduced in the crisis? It's a Rutte I measure. In addition, the Cabinet also takes many measures to combat tax avoidance. I have already indicated that we can support it in principle. Although I doubt its effectiveness, it is steps in the right direction. The fact that I doubt its effectiveness is not so much due to the measures taken by the cabinet itself as to the tax evasion industry in the Netherlands. The advice practice likes to make up all kinds of constructions to trick the government, and thus the rest of society. Every time a new rule is made up to deal with them, you see that they find a detour after all. Then the best trained and most creative fiscalists with thick-stocked wallets will start working to try to avoid and evade the new measure. We think it is a good idea to publish the fines this group receives, but I doubt that it will work optimally in this way. My group, like all the political groups here, wants this whole practice to stop and that there is not until afterwards on the website of the Tax Administration to see who made a mistake. That is why my colleague, Mr Leijten, has tabled an amendment which obliges those advisers themselves to publish on their own website. Mr. Chairman. I'll be on box three. The letter sent to us yesterday by the Secretary of State is, in short, disappointing. That is a disappointment that follows other, earlier disappointments. I refer to the exemption for injury victims, people who are signed for life and often have to pay for their lives because they are no longer able to work. But this Secretary of State has to pay property tax on that. I also mention the small savers, who may have to pay interest on being able to save at the bank, and then they still pay tax on a fictitious return. Now comes the letter in which the Secretary of State states that he will not do anything, after the Parliamentary lawyer has said that it is up to the legislator to correct the injustice of all those savers who pay taxes on income that they have not had at all. That is what we ourselves are, those legislators. The SP has already tabled a motion before the summer to settle this by 2020. The unwillingness or incompetence is appalling, and that goes against the ruling of the Supreme Court. Does the Secretary of State move on an individual course to the judge of all those people who were involved in the collective process? It is simply unfair that billionaires get richer and richer, no less than 10% richer, 6 billion more, we could read last, while the small saver gets caught. This is something we need to solve. Let's just get the money where it is, not the little savers. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the surcharge system. GroenLinks also started and expressed disappointment, frustration and displeasure about the fact that this bankrupt system cabinet after cabinet is not being addressed. It has already been mentioned in the government's own interdepartmental policy investigation: this system does not take people into account. No less than 300,000 compulsion claims a year, unbelievable. What kind of dramas would lie behind that? When I read this in this way, I wonder why there is now a re-examination. Why don't we make the choice to tackle this system? Make those surcharges redundant and stop this huge mistake in our tax system. Because at the heart of the problem is that too many people cannot afford basic services. Rent, care, childcare are things that most people should be able to pay themselves in principle, without the help of the government. My colleague, Mr Leijten, found that only yesterday, when people with sometimes more than a tonne of unjustified debts protested to the Tax Office through child care payments. Without childcare allowance, child care would not be possible at all in the Netherlands. That's crazy, isn't it? Why are we putting the parents in there and making them responsible for this? Something goes wrong with childcare and then parents can be held financially liable and plucked bald, as in these CAF cases. A small mistake can cause you to spend years later with tens of thousands, sometimes more than €100,000 fine, with all the consequences. Someone has even robbed himself of this, because of this kind of error of the Tax Administration. This can't be the case in our country, can it? Surely we cannot accept this when we are always beating ourselves on the chest that we are one of the best states of law in the world? I want to be proud of that, too, but then we cannot allow this kind of misery to be caused by the government itself. The Secretary of State has now promised that parents will be able to request their files and my group will, of course, monitor them, but what will the Secretary of State do if it becomes apparent that there are indeed serious errors in this system? Will the victims receive the excuses and compensation they are entitled to? After years of debt payment and other debts in order to repay these debts, and having had to deny their children a normal childhood, that is the least the Secretary of State and the government can do for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u94	Thank you. Mr Van Weyenberg from the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We've been on it for a lot of hours in legislative submission. That was with Mrs Leijten, whom I wish from this place. I think she's not just looking up with her foot, but I'm guessing she's also poking all the interruptions to Mr. Alkaya. We're about to check it out! If I challenged her through this place, it's my own fault. I can see, moreover, that Mr Omtzigt is very disappointed that he has not been interrupted. Mr. Chairman. As far as D66 is concerned, there are three main lines in the Tax Plan. I agree with all my colleagues: it is a lot. We say that every year. But the more we can split up, the better it is, also for as careful a treatment as possible. For this is yet another ambitious tax plan, which, as far as my group is concerned, achieves three main objectives, three issues which were very important for D66 in the government agreement, but also in the subsequent work. The first is that we make people feel the economic recovery: a lower burden on people. With Princess Day, adjustments have been made to lower taxes for people by 3.5 billion next year, while companies are going to pay 2.5 billion more. I am thinking in particular of large companies and deductions. I would like to congratulate Mr Snels here in plenary on the fact that part of this is the adoption of his own initiative law for loss relief. This is important because in this way we really increase the level of acceptance and make working really pay off. There's a lot of emphasis in it. The emphasis is on middle income. I think that's a good move. This also means that the tax on profits will be reduced later and less. I have already said in the legislative consultation that D66 will continue to look very closely at whether wages are actually going up in the coming year, because that is an important touchstone for my group if next summer the Tax Plan 2021 is to be drawn up again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u96	It's a perspective. I would like to have this very precise, because I know Mr Van Weyenberg: he thinks before he says such a thing. Where can we distract this? From the wages of the AEX companies? What can we test this against? How much do they have to rise before he says that we can spend that 2 billion better on people than on multinationals?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u97	As far as I'm concerned, we're always going to look again in the summer at all. This is going to be an important touchstone for my group. I am not going to mention one specific number, because I also want to know how the economy is doing. I note that the Prime Minister did not do that this year, something concrete, and I actually like the outcome. So I have a little room for manoeuvre there, but you have heard my group chairman in the General Political Reviews, myself in the legislative consultation and now myself here consistently make this point. Perhaps you can derive some confidence from the fact that it has been done carefully this year and that it has also been implemented in the August decision-making process.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u98	That confidence is not yet fully present with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u99	Too bad!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u100	When the dividend tax was abolished, it all had to go one-on-one to companies and people had to check it out. It took a lot of noise to get the VVD later in the year. Maybe more fundamentally: in this economic situation, the profits of large companies are very high, especially those of large companies, but wages are lagging behind. If D66 were to be allowed to decide for itself in that economic situation, would that party consider it wise to reduce the top rate of the profit tax at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u101	I have always chosen the line, for a number of years now Mr Nijboer knows that I think there is no contradiction between the approach to tax avoidance and tax constructions and, at the same time, an attractive locational environment. I think that's a sham contradiction. I want you to do both, and companies that innovate and make money here will stay in the Netherlands as well. In that sense, I understand that you're also looking at the profit tax, but my election program didn't include that cut in profit tax. That's obvious. In fact, we want a European minimum rate, so that you may take away the economic urgency to do something about it. However, I would say to Mr Nijboer that I think that a reduction in the tax on profits is much more justifiable than the abolition of the tax on dividends. I know that Mr Nijboer agrees with me, and if I didn't know that, I saw it in his response. Mr. Chairman. The approach to tax avoidance is, in addition to making sure that next year people will receive a number of billions of relief in their wallets, the second important line of this cabinet. The coalition agreement was ambitious and this Secretary of State also fills that in very ambitious terms. That really is a trend break with the past. The Secretary of State is also praised for this, for example internationally by the OECD, the club of rich countries. That's the second red line. One of the most important measures is the withholding tax, which I would like to mention. As far as my group is concerned, the third red line is the greening of the tax system, both bread and much needed. I see that the Secretary of State is really taking steps in this Tax Plan to convert the measures of the Climate Agreement into legislation. He's the first as far as I'm concerned. As I said in the WHO, his colleagues can follow quickly, because the urgency is high and much needs to be done. Soon the CO tax for industry will come along. This is an important measure to ensure that industry also achieves 49% reduction. We will soon be talking about the flight tax, for which this Secretary of State is trying to get an international alliance. It remains bizarre that fueling a Fiat Twingo or a cup of coffee at Schiphol Airport is taxed more heavily than kerosene on an aircraft or, indeed, marine fuel. That is another area in which we must do something internationally about the tax exemptions that I do not consider to be explanatory. Mr. Chairman. From these three red lines I go to the concrete legislative proposals. The Tax Plan, the main law, contains, first of all, those tax measures that make people feel better in their pockets. We postpone the reduction in the tax on profits and in 2021 it will go down significantly less than the plan had been in the past. Tax reliefs are brought forward by the Cabinet, so we'll do them sooner. We are taking a number of measures such as the higher employment discount and a higher general tax discount. That is sensible, but there are also a number of more precise measures which I would like to consider. I believe that Mr Omtzigt has already mentioned the low VAT rate on electronic publications. It is indeed important that we see that the lower VAT rate is translated into lower prices. It's a search, but I'd still like to ask the Secretary of State what can be done there. Secondly, I welcome the answer, including in writing, to questions I asked in the legislative consultation on, for example, suppliers selling loose articles bundled. I mentioned the example of Blendle. As far as I am concerned, the written reply provided the clarity that was asked for in the sector and by me. I'm grateful to the Secretary of State for that. I'm still looking for future resilience. Is it future-proof, for example for providers who start offering things without advertising and without cookies, so you can pay the low VAT rate? The Secretary of State said if you start with that, you can. I continue to wrestle with him about providers who are not doing so now and who are going to make you pay a little more for a product without advertising, because that would not apply to the low VAT rate. I keep finding it complicated. But that a new provider with a new product without cookies and without advertising is completely covered by the low VAT rate, I have in any case cashed. I will come in the second term with a motion to continue monitoring that what we are doing here also supports future innovations in that sector and does not stand in the way. Mr. Chairman. The fact that company periodic penalty payments are no longer deductible for the tax on profits is a repair that I am very pleased with. I was here during Question Time with Minister Hoekstra, who then replaced the Secretary of State, in connection with the graphite rains from Tata in IJmuiden and Velsen. The fines they received for non-compliance were deductible, but that is now being repaired with this bill. I think that is right, because when you talk about incomprehensible to people, I found this incomprehensible to people. This bill also includes the increase in excise duty on tobacco. My group is in favour of this. We take a step towards that €10 per package, which we know will certainly make it easier for start-ups to start smoking and we can take the step towards a smoke-free generation. In the legislative consultation I asked, together with Mr Nijboer, very specifically about the treatment of the electric cigarette, the e-cigarette. It has been said that Secretary of State Blokhuis is already investigating whether it is harmful. I'll wait for that investigation. The signs that this is the case are increasing and they are not just coming from the United States. It's kind of weird that you don't burden that. That does not fit in with the current system and that is why I asked the Secretary of State if it would be harmful, he would see if, for example, you would have to make a separate consumption tax for that. The Secretary of State has now, as I understand it, promised a two-stage missile. I'd like to confirm that one more time. He awaits the investigation of Secretary of State Blokhuis. I'm okay with that. If the result is that there is health damage, which is expected to be D66, he will investigate whether a consumption tax is possible and whether something should not be done about it internationally. I believe that this is also a matter for the other Member States with which we are in the European Union. Did I get it that well? Then the trotting and racing. Mrs Lodders and I have drawn a great deal of attention to this. There are still conversations, also with NOC*NSF to make a compensation on that side. This is the only sport that we cannot compensate for at the moment for a tax measure, and I do not think that would explain this particular sport. The Secretary of State is optimistic. I would ask him to inform the Chamber as to when that solution will come. Can the Secretary of State state state state a time limit and will he undertake to inform us about it quickly? Then there's the transportation of care. We have concerns about whether enough electric vans for target transport can be put on the market in time. The Secretary of State says it's going very fast in the market and he's optimistic about it. We have another motion that was passed last year. That was from at least the four coalition parties, but I think it was widely supported. The request was to keep the finger on the wrist that we can really take that step towards electric transport and that we can offer that kind of transport. I would like to ask the Secretary of State once more whether he sees another need, and if that is possible, to do something for the first year at least. I'm telling you quite frankly, I don't know exactly how that could happen. I am still not quite sure whether it is really necessary, but I do understand the concern in the sector that the replacement will soon be blocked because the type of vans needed, including the number of people who fit in, are not available. I would like a little more clarification from the Secretary of State. Finally, in this legislative proposal, the landlord levy and, to be precise, the 10 times 100 million discount that can be applied flexibly. That money can therefore be spent earlier, for the first few years already more than 100 million, precisely in order to stimulate new construction. We have a crisis in the housing market and we need to make sure that it can be built, built and built. D66 has also said that this is a design aimed at scarcity areas. I understand that you want to be able to put down a substantial amount of money and then you want to focus on the areas where this new building is most needed, where the housing shortages are greatest. But my group also found and believes, looking at that list, that it is a difficult story for Nijmegen, Breda, Leeuwarden, Tilburg and Arnhem. What do I say to these municipalities about why they are not covered, when they are also just in those top 50 areas of cramped areas? In my view, this has been discussed extensively in the legislative consultation on Living. In the short term, I expect an amendment from at least the members of the coalition to extend it. Mr President, I see Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u102	I see him, too. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u103	I'm glad it's getting wider at least. I would also like to make this proposal accessible to the whole of the Netherlands, because there is a housing shortage throughout the Netherlands and because there is no consideration at all for living in shrinking areas in that other billion. That's just about the Randstad and surroundings. I therefore find it reasonable to make this tax deduction available to the whole of the Netherlands, also because I do not expect hundreds of new social housing to be built in Delfzijl at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u104	That is precisely what is being looked at, at the very substantial broadening of it. I'll wait and see. I expect it in the short term. As far as my group is concerned, this must be the focus where the deficit is the largest. In shrinking regions, I find it more complicated. The emphasis must be on new construction. I have seen another amendment by Mr Nijboer on demolition in shrinking areas and in Rotterdam-South. That's a slightly different goal, apart from the content. I do not exclude that Mr Nijboer too can be quite enthusiastic about what I know my colleague and those of a number of other groups are working on right now. I agree with him that this is a somewhat uncomfortable form, so I hope that this amendment can be tabled quickly. Because then we can really talk about the content, in the sense that there is something there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u105	The regions are, of course, looking at this. I myself wrote a piece on this issue in the Algemeen Dagblad today. Those regions therefore want clarity, and I want clarity. Because we dealt with the housing budget yesterday. The discussion will continue tomorrow. We're voting on a tax bill. This is a tax law, so it really has to be done in this debate. So I am very curious to know which regions will be excluded from this discount. 'Cause that's what you're gonna do when you go a long way. I would say: let it apply to the whole of the Netherlands. Wim Kok always said: The Netherlands is too small for a periphery.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u106	I expect that amendment to be tabled in the short term. And I believe that we also fully agree on the objective of encouraging additional housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u107	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am curious about the reaction to Mrs Leijten's amendment on the disclosure of that fine. I have also expressed some concerns about this in the legislative consultation. If someone's gonna get caught for this, we're gonna have to make sure customers can find it. I think this is important, apart from the exact form of Mrs Leijten's amendment. I ask the Secretary of State: how do we ensure that people know that such a consultant has done things that we do not consider desirable? Because as a customer you can also benefit from it. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the climate agreement measures. I have already mentioned the fact that we are dealing here with the tax on flights and the tax on CO for industry. However, this proposal also includes an adjustment of the ODE rates. With a large number of colleagues present here, I have received a petition, submitted on behalf of the greenhouse horticulture industry and in particular on behalf of horticulturalists who have already switched to electric. So they don't use gas anymore. A number of speakers have already mentioned the relationship between this higher ODE levy and the possibly wider access to that SDE scheme, i.e. the subsidy for renewable energy. What's the big deal, 'cause you gotta see these things in balance, right? A number of colleagues have also said that they will be returning to the monitoring of the effects in the second period, and so will I. Mr. Chairman. I asked for the extension of the low fare for loading posts. The investigation will be published in the first quarter of 2020, the Secretary of State said. If we do nothing, the scheme will expire on 1 January 2021. I would simply ask the Secretary of State to stand in this with an open mind. Is he willing to do that? So I get that it's gonna end, but let's take a good look. We have great ambitions in the field of electric transport. I'd like to hear the Secretary of State confirm that he's looking at this with an open mind. I see Mr Mulder standing at the interrupting microphone. I would like to make one last sentence, Mr President, because then I have been given a ruling on this law. The youngtimer scheme continues to amaze me. On 11 November we heard again that old cars over 15 years old are responsible for 35% of nitrogen emissions in traffic. I still do not quite see why the Secretary of State is not equally enthusiastic about my suggestion that the time limit for the young-timer scheme should be taken at least from 15 years to 20 years. I'd like to hear another response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u109	Thank you. Mr. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u110	On 28 October, the PVV, the first day of this debate, told and asked a lot about biomass, and made a lot of proposals in this respect. D66 didn't really go into that. But we are now a few weeks away, and now I have heard a colleague from D66, Mr Sienot, say on the radio that this biomass may not be a very good plan after all. We are about to spend a lot of billions on that. Now the PVV has tabled an amendment to stop granting the subsidy for biomass through the SDE at least by 2020 and not to collect the same amount for this Tax Plan. How's D66 on the other side?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u111	We are, like many here, critical of the form of biomass subsidy. As far as I'm concerned, this is something you need especially in the transition, so not in the final picture. It was also agreed in the Climate Agreement that we are going to look very critically at whether it works. But what you're doing is pulling a line through everything in one go. As far as I am concerned, that is the other extreme.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u112	So we didn't, because we only looked at it before 2020. This means that we will at least avoid going in the same direction as we did at the time with the burning of 7 billion for hybrid cars. We're about to do this with 11 billion. We want to give the signal that we will not raise the 729 million by 2020, so that we do not have to waste that money on unnecessary and extremely bad policies. If the D66 colleagues tell us that the plan is dreary and that biomass is bad, then I cannot imagine that they will not support us if we come up with a proposal. I'd like you to respond to that, with an explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u113	Of course, I'm going to look at that proposal. I think we're mostly trying to improve it. You want to put it all away. I think that's going very fast. I also think that your enthusiasm for climate policy and your concern about it is a welcome change, because you have so far denied the climate problem. If I may see your interruption in such a way that you are now at last in a different way, then this is a joyous day for the climate. But when I look at Mr Mulder... I was trying to ask a reasonable question back. Mr. Mulder is again... Well, that's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u114	Well, it wasn't a question from you. But Mr Mulder is so challenged that I give him the floor. Very briefly, Mr. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u115	CO isn't the problem. The problem is the elite political elite in The Hague, who does not want to see where the problems are. But if you already believe that CO isn't good, then it's incredibly stupid that you're going to invest 11 billion in a system...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u116	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u117	...to pump more CO into the air. I'm often not very excited about D66, but I can't imagine you being so incredibly stupid to spend 11 billion on incredibly stupid policies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u118	I have to laugh about it, Mr. Chairman. I'm actually being countered by someone who says there's no climate problem, but if it was there, then your solution isn't right. I find that interesting. Thanks for thinking along. I think that we should look very critically at the biomass framework and that we should do it differently. But you're going through everything, and I'm worried if that's gonna lead to anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u119	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u120	Perhaps that would be wise, Mr President. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the withholding tax Act 2021. This is perhaps one of the most important legislative proposals to deal with tax structures, tax avoidance and the Netherlands as a transit country. D66 is a fan of a country that is attractive for businesses to settle in, to come up with new products, to set up research centres and to make sure that people are at work, with high-quality employment. But as far as the flow through the Zuidas is concerned, we are also in the top. As far as I'm concerned, that's not the point. Mr Omtzigt's goal of getting out of that top five of transit countries is also the goal of D66. The Secretary of State has promised that he'll make sure we can monitor where that withholding tax leads. It is expected that this tax will be so effective that it will not even produce money, because the flows will all be moved. My group draws a few conclusions from that. Firstly, it is very important that we do this not only in the Netherlands, but also internationally. It is very good if the Netherlands is not a transit country, but if another country takes over that position, then perhaps we have done the right thing but the ultimate solution has only partially come closer. So I would very much like the Secretary of State to monitor whether the flows no longer go through the Netherlands. If so, can we tell which countries take over the baton? Secondly, does it really get us out of that top two of the floodlands we're in right now? Thirdly, is a part of the Netherlands still going to a few countries that are not on the list of low-taxing countries where the Netherlands will now have to levy a withholding tax? We are thinking in particular of three countries. These countries could then become the new places where the money goes through the Netherlands. I'd find that very interesting. A number of countries have been mentioned a lot in the debate. If it turns out that the money is all going there, maybe we should ask ourselves if those are the new paradises that are being found. That is why I think it is very important to monitor this very closely. I will come back to that in the second term. Mr. Chairman. Then the Law abolishing tax deduction training expenditure. The tax regime is replaced by a subsidy scheme. I agree with everyone that we must make sure that we do not throw away old shoes before we have new ones. That is also the purpose of the Secretary of State. I have seen an amendment to ensure that this is done and to ensure that it is properly in the law. I think that's fine. Mr. Chairman. I would like to talk specifically about the ATAD 2 directive. That is the second directive from Europe against tax avoidance and tax constructions. There's gonna be a guide. That guidance must not become a manual. Of course, you don't want the guidance that says when there is such a construction, to become a kind of DIY book for handy crafters. That is not at all the intention of the Secretary of State. But I must confess that, although I still have no doubts about his intentions or his employees' intentions, I still find it difficult to explain to people that that guidance cannot be misused for that purpose. I'd like to hear more about that. Mr. Chairman. There is, of course, concern here about the impact on SMEs in terms of documentation obligations. My group is not in favour of an absolute threshold, because I am afraid that it will become a sort of free port underneath. For example, in Panama Papers, we have seen that unfortunately, some SME entrepreneurs are also very creative about the rules. But of course you want to offer as much security as possible to entrepreneurs who do business abroad because, for example, they import stuff, and therefore are very concerned in the sense of: hey, is this about me, should I do something, are these not very heavy documentation obligations with high administrative burden? I have already heard colleagues talk about this. I really think that we should monitor whether we are strict and we should not open new escape hatches, and my group does not want to do so either, but we should pay attention to disproportionate administrative burdens. Mr. Chairman. We have a very ambitious package of greening, with an approach to tax avoidance and lower taxes for people, but they do remain within the existing system. Mr Snels mentioned that too. I welcome a number of commitments made by the Secretary of State in this area. For example, when considering the exploration of a new system in jargon, he admits to looking at the building blocks, such as box 2. He called it a "job box" himself. I think you can still handle that very creatively. I think it is a good thing that the Secretary of State has a very good look at these building blocks in the exploration. I am also pleased that the Secretary of State is going to look at a generic CO levy, not just for electricity and for industry but in a general sense. I think it's wise to think about that, just as well as we're still gonna think about box 3. We're gonna deal with the law on that soon. The Secretary of State sent a letter yesterday about the cases that concern the past, following the Supreme Court. I think it would be good to clarify this as soon as possible. I get a lot of e-mails about that. I say to my fellow Members: you will have it. These e-mails show above all how deeply rooted the dislike of the existing system is now, especially among people who hold a lot of savings and who are now supposed to be in shares with a much higher return when they are not. The adjustment proposed by the Secretary of State seems to me to be an improvement. It is no secret that my group is also looking for a way for a new system to think about how to ask people with a very high capacity, above the million, for an additional contribution. I really think that power inequality is a focus for all of us. Mr. Chairman. In doing so, I would like to ask the Secretary of State to pay close attention to the role of social investors. They're worried already. I understand that if you're not careful, you'll make it all even more complicated, but I think that's a point that I'm asking for attention to right now. Mr. Chairman. I think that in this future exploration we should also continue to think about the deductions, about where our own house belongs in taxation. It is good that this is all part of the research that is being carried out. Mr. Chairman. The same applies to the tax treatment of meat. We've received a petition on that. It has often been considered in the past to arrange this via VAT. That seems very complicated, because you cannot actually maintain it, as this Secretary of State has always said. But how do you deal with meat, whether by excise duty or on other roads? I hope that it will be thought creatively whether there are any reasons to burden it more heavily and, above all, whether you can do it in an executable way. Because in the past, too often, we have had a system that is not enforceable and not enforceable for the Tax Administration. I wouldn't repeat that mistake. Mr. Chairman. I want to end with the surcharges. Colleagues have already said that it is important for people to be able to request their own files. That's just a right. It is a good thing that yesterday, when there seemed to be some noise about that, it was said quite clearly from the Treasury. But these systems are bankrupt. Only, that's a lot easier said than solved. I saw the first part of yesterday's research into the surcharges. This mainly shows how you can improve things within the existing system, for example by working with a fixed income or by looking within the rules to see if you can do better. As far as I am concerned, however, it is indeed time for a very fundamental debate. That will not be an easy debate, because these increases are very important for a lot of people. I saw a calculation example of a single mother with two children, of whom about half of the income comes from the allowances. Those surcharges may be very complicated. People get lost in it. I was shocked when I read in an evaluation that 15% do not use some schemes. People get into debt when their income turns out to be different and they can't repay supplements. Especially in the case of childcare payments, sometimes huge sums of money have to be repaid. It's just not that easy to say goodbye to that, because it's a very important part of their income for a lot of people with less income. This calls for fundamental discussions. Mr Snels rightly said that as far as I am concerned. It's about childcare and questions like "how do I deal with care?', "can I do something for tenants and savers, both through the rent surcharge and by the way in which I organize taxation around people with a store?', "Is that perhaps a negative income tax? Is that a way forward?" and "can the minimum wage also play a certain role in this?" These are fundamental debates. A lot of homework is already being done for that. I look forward to the next election campaign. Then we will cross political swords with each other even more widely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u121	Ah, that's gonna be fun and interesting. I'll suspend for a few minutes at the request of box K. Then we will listen to Mr Nijboer. Let me turn to the railway book: I aim to finish this debate before dinner break. We've calculated that we'll be ready by 7:45. That's excluding interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u122	That is a very objective observation. I'll suspend for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u123	Now that everyone is fresh and fruity again, we can listen to Mr Nijboer. I'd like to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last Monday we had the second day of the legislative consultation on the eight laws that form part of the Tax Plan and the tax avoidance measures. I closed my second term a little disappointed. I said, what are we all doing here? All these parliamentarians together asked 1,500 questions, I believe, and spent many hours debating each other. What does the world look like at the end of this debate? Has the Secretary of State actually explained his own right each time, or has he listened seriously to the arguments in Parliament and are things being changed? Mr. Chairman. I thought I'd start out happy today. I have tabled six amendments. These are of course seen in the main points of the things the PvdA likes to see differently in this Tax Plan. I'm gonna weave that in my input, too. I hope that things can be adjusted, and I see a very small glimmer of light here and there. Mr. Chairman. The first point is that, in the end, we are going to reduce the tax on profits for large companies, for which the government is spending more than EUR 2 billion, and I think this Tax Plan is a real mistake. I also tabled an amendment with my group chairman, Mr Asscher, immediately when that came because things had already been explained, so that we should postpone this delay, so that we should not allow that reduction in the tax on profits to take place in 2021 instead of 2020, but simply not. And why not? I'm trying to convince the cabinet and the coalition parties with substantive arguments. First of all, the profits of large companies go against the boards. The Prime Minister himself indicated that. So there's no need for anything. And at the same time, wages are left behind. I tasted that here and there, even in the input of today's VVD, quite a bit of concern. I would remind you, including the Secretary of State, that this year the reduction in the tax on profits was not granted. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he's in the same position. We immediately questioned him in the Chamber when the Prime Minister said: the reduction in the tax on profits may not happen if wages do not rise enough. And then he said, "That's a political talk from the Prime Minister. I had nothing to do with that and this and that." Eventually, it did land in the Tax Plan. How does the cabinet end up in this? Is the cabinet also prepared to refrain from reducing the tax on profits? As far as I am concerned, we are doing so directly, but if we have to do it in two steps, we have had to ask this coalition more often for miserable tax measures; in the case of dividend taxation, it took more than one debate, and I am also happy to be prepared to do so. So I really hope that the cabinet will be able to move in that direction. Mr. Chairman. Why do we want this any more? Because the reduction in the tax on profits will also have adverse effects in Europe. You can see countries playing hare-over in a race to the bottom with tax rates. And the Netherlands is just ahead of that. England will react even more aggressively after the Brexit, because the Netherlands has also reduced the top rates. We shouldn't want that, because in the end people pay the price. Mr. Chairman. Thirdly, the coalition is opposed to broadening the base, as it is called, to tackle tax avoidance. This is also the subject of legislative proposals today. That's what I find rewarding bad behavior. I do not think that companies that have avoided tax for years should pay at a lower rate if you take that approach. No, companies just have to make their proper contribution. You can see in all the studies that we also discussed last week, that the effective tax burden on large companies is decreasing. In fact, Shell doesn't pay taxes at all; they have recognized that here in the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. These are all substantive reasons for spending more than EUR 2 billion more usefully. I'm asking the Cabinet to do the same. That's my first point. My second main point is income policy. I know that you should not attach too much absolute value to a purchasing power picture, with all these different households and then the uncertainty about how the economy develops next year. I agree directly with everyone who criticises this. At the same time, purchasing power figures give insight into the income-political choices made by a cabinet. Does the Secretary of State recognize that? The consequence of these choices is that the lowest incomes are the least advanced and the highest incomes are the most advanced. It is 1.3% versus 2.3%, and €20 in the month for people with a gross income of €20,000 versus €200 in the month for people who earn a tonne and more. These are political choices, and I do not think they are fair. Then you can say: 1.3% versus 2.3% is one percentage point less, so what's the difference; they're just purchasing power cards anyway? But if you do that year by year, like this coalition does, after five years, it's 5% difference. And the point of the PvdA is that the people who have the least are mostly the elderly, the tenants and the benefit recipients at this time have the greatest problems in getting around. A quarter of the tenants don't make ends meet at the end of the month. If you choose to put that group at a relatively disadvantage, I think that is a fundamentally wrong choice, an unjust choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u125	It goes without saying that Mr Nijboer of the Labour Party makes different choices than the cabinet, which mainly opts for middle incomes. We have different political insights here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u126	Oh, thank God.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u127	But the big words amaze me a little. First of all, the purchasing power of people with benefits and of pensioners in the additional supplementary package of the Tax Plan is about doubled compared to the estimate. That is not enough for Mr Nijboer, but I think it is worth noting. But above all else, I'd just like to take a look at his own cabinets. I know that Mr Nijboer always reacts a little irritated. It is now 1.3% and 2.3%. But in his own cabinet in 2016, it was 1.8% for the lowest incomes and 2.8% for the highest. There was also a percentage point in between; that was exactly the same as in this cabinet. In 2015, it was even 0.4% for the lowest income and 1.1% for the highest income. So that was three times as much, also as a percentage, for the high incomes as for the lowest. Well, this cabinet does it about fifty-fifty. I understand, therefore, that Mr Nijboer makes different choices, but he also says that he considers it all unfair, whereas the ratio is actually exactly the same as in a whole number of financial years in which the Labour Party was responsible for government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u128	No, we've always spared the lowest incomes the most. It is true that once there was an employment package, when unemployment was sky high. That was the 5 billion package. Unemployment was sky high and there were immense problems. At that time, it was chosen to stimulate employment, and this has had effects. But unemployment in the Netherlands has rarely been as low as at present. That's why you have to look at the budget every year. For pensioners, pension reductions are threatening, pensions are under pressure, and tenants pay themselves totally dull. And what are you doing? You choose to give the highest incomes, the workers, the most and the people most under pressure the least. And I think that's unfair.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u129	Yes, it is true that the emphasis is on workers, but we are almost doubling the purchasing power of people with benefits and pensioners. I would like to repeat that once again. But I think, in all honesty, that Mr Nijboer should just stand for what he said. Indeed, in 2016 there was 5 billion euros in relief. But then the gap was just 1.8 for the lowest incomes and 2.8 for the highest, in percent, huh. And that was not a one-time thing, as Mr Nijboer says, because in the year before it was 0.4% for the lowest incomes. That was a cabinet of the Labour Party! So don't come up with that all of this isn't totally social if it's about the same in the proportions as not one, but several years of the Rutte/Asscher cabinet. Once again, I understand that you make different considerations on your own, but you have big words for cabinets that do about the same thing as the cabinets you were in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u130	That's some bullshit. We ruled at a time when there was 20 billion deficit. There is now a surplus of 10 billion. Who pays the highest price in times of crisis? Those are the people with the lowest incomes. They become unemployed and incomes are under pressure. What are you supposed to do? Take recovery measures to get it over with. That's exactly what we did. Who benefits most in high-growth? The highest incomes, the people with a good job. That's all right with it automatically. But who's left behind? Pensioners, tenants and beneficiaries. And what does this cabinet do? Consciously reduce the top rate by 2.25 percentage points and increase by 0.7 percentage points the lowest rate that people with the lowest incomes have to pay. Well, if you call that fair, I'm lost.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u131	No, Mr. Van Weyenberg. Mr. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u132	I have very good news for Mr Nijboer and for the PvdA. If the PVV amendment is adopted, every family in the Netherlands will receive about €83 in the coming year. That is the amount calculated by the cabinet itself. If you follow the figures of the CBS it is €102 per year. All we have to do is stop making money available for biomass by 2020. Would the PvdA find that interesting?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u133	Well, I am for sustainability. You did not mention the number of the amendment in question, but well. The PvdA is in favour of a sustainable economy. If you say that in PVV terms we stop all that left-wing nonsense of a sustainable economy, that we're going to burn all the coal and that nature and the environment have to look at it further, then you won't find any support from the PvdA, even though you can spend that money differently, because I agree with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u134	No, very specifically, we're quitting biomass. Your own group in the First Chamber has already ruled that biomass is a bad choice. The D66 Group in the House of Representatives has also said that biomass is worse than coal or gas, even though it has not penetrated the tax colleague. It is very simple: if the PVV amendment is adopted, an average family in the Netherlands will be between €80 and €100 more. For that, you need not act strangely, just following what everyone is saying at the moment, namely no more subsidies to biomass. Would that be interesting?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u135	I am quite critical of the biomass subsidy, and so am the PvdA Group. But if you don't do that, I think you'll need other renewable energy sources, and they'll cost money. You can say you don't do biomass anymore, but I'm not in favour of trading that for coal or for other polluting things. So you're gonna need that money to come up with a sustainable economy, and so you can't hand it out. I'm afraid we're going to have to separate our paths there again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u136	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u137	Mr. Chairman. I have therefore tabled an amendment on the reduction of the top rate. That reduction really consciously increases the income gap due to that miserable flat branchsideology. I want to use the proceeds to reduce the increase in the first disc. I hope for fairly broad support in the Chamber. To be honest, I expect there are quite a few parties who think that is fair. That doesn't make the income plate fair at once, but at least it gives a shift: a little less for the top and a little more support for the people who have the least. Mr. Chairman. My third and final point is housing. I was able to talk to the new Minister for the Environment and Living all day yesterday about this. The PvdA Group finds the housing shortage, the priceless rents, the huge waiting lists for a home and the fact that start-ups no longer intervene, while investors take over our cities one of the biggest societal problems of our time. The cabinet does something, but frankly that will not have much more effect than a drop on a glowing record. I therefore welcome the fact that the SP has tabled an amendment to substantially reduce the landlord's tax. That is also what we have in our joint counter-budget. I myself have also tabled an amendment to extend the Earnings Stripping measure designed for banks to 90%. That's all technique, but that could be 180 to 185 million free. I am also very happy to look for it in the increase in the transfer tax for non-residents from 6% to 7%, something the cabinet has already chosen. That is what the cabinet itself has said. One percentage point more is worth 300 million. If that's the VVD too much, I'd say 0.3 percentage points can be too. Then you have $100 million and you can double it. Those are pretty interesting suggestions. I can speak about that, because I am really in favour of playing more space to make affordable housing in the Netherlands possible. Mr. Chairman. I have an amendment to ensure that not only the Randstad, but also the region benefits from the incentive measures of the cabinet. I am curious to see what the Secretary of State is about, knowing that I have just heard the discussion with the coalition parties a little bit, that neighboring municipalities, if you draw a new border, will say with good reason: we too have a housing shortage, we also have houses to build. I happened to be in the Westland at a housing meeting yesterday. According to the statistics, they still have a bigger housing problem than Amsterdam. I could hardly imagine that, but I'd just like to give you an idea of the urgent housing problems. Not only in Amsterdam, Utrecht, Enschede, Maastricht, Leeuwarden and Groningen there is housing shortage, but throughout the Netherlands. So I would say: make it simple, keep it simple and just make it €25,000 per social home available to the whole of the Netherlands. Because if you want to draw a line, you have to do it at 90% of the Netherlands. Then what are you still doing? It is not the case that new homes will be built on a large scale in places where this is not necessary. I don't see why housing corporations would do that. They're not building for nothing, I'd say. Mr. Chairman. A second amendment I have tabled in this area concerns the revival of the regime for the shrinking regions and Rotterdam-South. I really think it is an omission in the budget proposals that nothing really happens with regard to housing in the shrinking areas. It's about living in the countryside. The CDA had an interesting conference this weekend. I haven't been there. There it was emphasised that the CDA is a rural party. I see Mr Bruins watching. I recognize him as someone with an eye for the countryside. It just needs to be invested in. The regions are asking for it. The arrangement's already in place. It's only on zero. The only thing we need to do is to make the budget available again. I believe that this can be done either within the billion that has been made available or with an amendment that expands it. What's the Secretary of State's position on that? Mr President, finally, people's housing. As part of the transfer tax, the cabinet is going to investigate the taxing of investors and the zeroing of the start-up rate. Research is always interesting. It can also always be a way to get a reprieve again. We've already seen that in more tax types. I just have an amendment to introduce it. So I would say: vote for it, then we have settled it. The VVD was also in the budget yesterday, living more on the tour of 'it needs to be faster'. The amendment is there. I would like to say to my fellow Members: vote for it! That helps start-ups something and discourages investors a lot. Mr Omtzigt has also asked a whole series of questions about investors' returns and tax burden. I would therefore say: seize the opportunity! Mr. Chairman. I have two other points to make. I can be brief about box 3: this takes a long time. It's taking too long. Secretary of State Weekers said at the time that we are going to make box 3 fairer, but that this requires a lot of study. Secretary of State Wiebes has said that for a few years. The current Secretary of State has now outlined the outline of his new regime, but also says: we are not coming up with a legislative proposal until the summer. I think it's taking too long. I think it's been too long. My second concern is that the exemption for real wealthy savers will be high. I had a debate on this with Mr Omtzigt last week. Almost 1 million euros and not paying taxes! You may ask yourself whether this is reasonable and justified in terms of power distribution and justice. Mr Alkaya has already spoken about this. Thirdly, I am very much in favour of increasing the burden on investors. That's what you heard, Mr. Chairman. We will discuss this further in the debate. I think you will have the same kind of problems, at least the technical and legal ones that have now been brought before the Supreme Court by savers, if you leave interest rates and investment returns so different. That is certainly the case when the returns and real estate prices fall once, because that can happen sometime. I'm very much in favour of that being the outcome, but I'm wondering if you should just put it that way in the law. Then it is more about a capital tax on it than again going back with fictitious returns. Mr. Chairman. My final point of substance is implementation. We can no longer have a tax debate without talking about implementation. The misery with the surcharges has been dealt with extensively again in recent times. To be honest, I was shocked by the huge numbers of people who are being executed on warrants and the impact they must have on people. Imagine the seizure of wages, or the removal of a car or furniture, or whatever the hell is being seized. That really has a huge impact. I think we should have a deeper, separate debate on this. The same applies to loan assistance, which Mr Groot and Mr Omtzigt have already asked for in the past. That still hasn't been handled properly. It also applies to the batter-free foot. We impose laws on everyone in the Netherlands. How is it possible that the government itself does not comply with this? People just don't have enough money by the end of the month. It is not just too little money, but really too little to function. That batter-free foot is on a level you don't want any human. And we won't even stick to that. So I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State to go into that again. Finally, Mr President. Six amendments. And I will undoubtedly make motions for tomorrow. I hope that the debate will make sense, that the arguments of the coalition and opposition parties, of all members of parliament, of all representatives of the people, will be weighed seriously. It is, of course, always a political consideration. I have also made political points, which the VVD undoubtedly does not, without a doubt, think differently from the PvdA. That is possible, but we have also made proposals that everyone actually agrees with, for example on the broadening of the landlord's levy. I hope that the laws will be improved at the end of the debate. If the main course, with 2 billion for companies, a more unfair distribution of income and too little for social housing, is not adjusted, I say that the PvdA Group unfortunately cannot support the Tax Plan. But I do hope that we can adjust it for the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u138	Very good. One more question from Mr Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u139	That last one was very fast. I understand that the PvdA only wants to support the Tax Plan if one, the housing shortage can be dealt with, two, the Vpb doesn't go down in 2021 and three, the reduction of the highest rate doesn't go down?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u140	That's exactly what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u141	All right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u142	I was talking about the 2 billion for large companies, a fairer distribution of income and more to housing. I'll start with it and I'll end with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u143	Mr Mulder gives a summary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u144	A party colleague of mine said: you expect me to be consistent; that is not based on anything. But that doesn't apply to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u145	That was Thijs Wöltgens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u146	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u147	I call Mr Bruins of the Christian Union. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u148	Mr. Chairman. After two extensive legislative presentations, many hundreds of pages of replies and reports, it is now time for the full completion of the 2020 Tax Plan package. Even if the government takes dozens of measures in this Tax Plan, often for the better, sometimes for the worse: if there is one awareness, it is that our tax and surcharge system must be much simpler and fairer than it is today. I am therefore looking at this comprehensive package of proposals, on the one hand, with the coalition agreement in mind, and, on the other hand, a building block path with a far-reaching tax review as an eye-catching perspective. As far as my group is concerned, that perspective cannot get any closer soon enough, especially if, as yesterday, a major policy investigation into the surcharges on the mat explodes. Mr. Chairman. The fact that the supplement system has become a multifaceted monster has not escaped anyone here. The preliminary sad low point is the unjust recovery of childcare allowances and, above all, how the Tax Administration has dealt with hundreds of families. But in the end this is only the tip of the iceberg of a system that can only fail. This system overestimates the capacity of too many citizens. As the researchers write: "The surcharge system is based on predictability, which is difficult to tolerate with the increasing flexibilisation of labour and forms of society." These are large amounts and large numbers. Nearly EUR 13 billion is paid in 7.5 million surcharges to 5 million households, with 2.3 million recoveries and 1.5 million back payments over a year. It is not uncommon for recoveries to lead to debt problems. In addition, around 10% of households entitled to benefits do not make use of the allowances. This system, a legacy of the second Balkenende cabinet, is misconceived, in short, what man can do, is hopelessly complex and a recipe for disappointments. During the legislative presentations, the CAF 11 cases have already been discussed in depth and this policy investigation calls into question the whole system. My group is looking forward to the reaction of the Secretary of State to this investigation and to the answer to the question of how quickly we can get this system simpler, better and more friendly for everyone. As I pointed out during the first legislative consultation, my group believes that it is time for a credible and transparent tax system with broader bases and lower rates, in which we are less facilitating wealth inequality than we are today, to tackle tax avoidance, no longer to encourage advanced tax flexibility, to abolish perverse incentives on the housing market, for example, and to stop enslaving families to the absurd labour participation incentives. Bearing in mind the study of supplements, perhaps we should opt for a little less redistribution through taxation and in return for a higher minimum wage or higher benefits. This solves a lot and also lowers the marginal tax burden, because the differences between nominal rates and the real marginal tax burden are far and far too great. For who oh who can tell me in this room in ten seconds how much does he or she have left of 100% salary increase per month? A quick calculation was made that when the current system was introduced in 2001 with a look at the rates it was easy for each other, now this has become an almost impossible sum with all those up and down paths of tax rebates and surcharges. How does the Secretary of State look at all of this and what can he do about improvements, particularly in the top-heavy surcharge system, in terms of legislation in this cabinet period? Mr. Chairman. I have already shared my appreciation of the various measures during the legislative consultation. My group, for example, welcomes the reduction of the burden on middle income but is concerned about its design. My group welcomes the fact that next year the two-disc system will be implemented, but is concerned about the increasing and opaque tax reductions that are undermining their tax base under these simple discs. My group looks positively at the tax impact of the Climate Agreement, but is concerned about the budgetary loss that does not lead to CO reduction but only to car manufacturers laughing. We've discussed all of this in the previous consultations. Mr. Chairman. The low interest rates, the problem of small residential production and the tax treatment of residential properties are disastrously working out on the housing market. Fortunately, this cabinet is taking steps in the right direction, in adjustments in box 3, in stimulating new construction, in limiting the mortgage interest deduction and in weakening the growth of the landlord's tax. For the ChristianUnion Group, these steps are only intermediate steps towards a better housing policy without mortgage interest relief and especially without landlord tax and hence with higher building volumes and more affordable houses. During the first legislative consultation, my group, among other things, sparked the fire in order to make the tax reduction in the landlord levy available for social new construction throughout the country. My group, together with others, will make proposals for this, but, as has already been said, not in this fine gremium of the fiscal colleagues but in the gremium of the residents.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u149	I note that the amendment, which has just been mentioned, has just been tabled. I saw it coming by Parlis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u150	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u151	Very nice. Thank you. During the legislative consultation I mentioned the great value of family businesses for our country and for our economy and the concern that they are forgotten when, by the way, rightly tightening up all kinds of schemes, such as the innovation box. A concern that has brought us to our retina over the last few days is the increase of the ODE for many gardeners and anyway the impact of this increase on many different types of companies and organisations. As I understand it, the ODE part of the energy bill is increasing sharply for them. My group considers it important that the development of the energy burden should be balanced and not disproportionate to other sectors. It should not be the case that the changes in the ODE disproportionate the baker on the corner or the gardener. Even better, it would be if the ODE were no longer needed because the CO2 price is more real and the reduction in the cost of renewable energy is thought faster now, but that aside. Does the Secretary of State wish to monitor and assess the impact of the increase in the ODE on the different types of companies and organisations, such as hospitals, on fairness, affordability and sustainability? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I come to two legislative proposals to combat tax avoidance. First of all, the legislative proposal aimed at improving the exchange of information between national tax administrations. This proposal is part of the ongoing fight against aggressive tax planning structures. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, this fight needs to be stepped up further, and that is what is happening with this bill. In short, it is a step in the right direction. We support that step. After all, every company should pay its share properly and thus contribute to the public good in society. It seems to me that it is an untenable job not to turn the central system that is to be built into an ever-expanding database with increasingly older and thus polluted data. The effectiveness of this measure depends on its implementation, which is not exactly the strength of pan-European projects. How is the Secretary of State going to ensure that this information exchange becomes and remains effective? Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union is also positive about the bill to counter hybrid mismatches. I look forward to the results of the research into Dutch qualification policy. And as I said in the previous legislative consultation, I very much hope that this Secretary of State, with all his knowledge, energy and drive, will be able to arrange the consultation on a common corporate tax base within the EU as soon as he sees an opening. The Christian Union Group is in favour not only of broad tax bases and reasonable rates within the country, but also of internationally aligned and harmonised bases and rates, thus minimising the risk of tax avoidance. In this fight against tax avoidance, the Secretary of State can count on my full support. Like Mr Snels, I am very much looking forward to the opinions of the Ter Haar Committee on the taxation of multinationals. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u152	We have one more question from Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u153	I think I already know the answer. But if you don't, it's gonna get to you anyway, so I'm just gonna ask the question before Mr Bruins leaves. Mr Bruins said: perhaps we should think of raising the minimum wage or raising the benefits instead of the whole circus with surcharges. Is that really a call to the cabinet? Can we call on the Cabinet, together with Mr Bruins, to carry out serious research into raising the minimum wage and whether this would simplify the whole tax circus?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u154	In particular, I have called on the cabinet to reduce the complexity of the tax system, which has grown out of all sides. It needs to be simpler. And if you're gonna make it simpler, you're gonna have to rethink what you're gonna do at the bottom of the payroll building. So you're gonna have to go outside the beaten track. I have made a suggestion for this, a direction of thought that the Christian Union is thinking about. You might also be able to see them in an upcoming election programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u155	Very good. Rounding, short, pointy, Mr. Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u156	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. Then I look forward to replying to the cabinet on this point and how they are going to take this with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u157	We all look forward to that. Thank you. Mr Van Raan from the Group of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u158	Mr. Chairman. I am aware that I may experience part 3 of this room as a side-intromer because I have not experienced parts 1 and 2, but still... I thought it would be a good idea to report that. Mr. Chairman. I would like to discuss six points with you. Twelve months ago, during the plenary session of the Tax Plan, the Animal Party expressed the hope and expectation that this would be the last 3°C Tax Plan and that we could debate a 1.5°C Tax Plan in 2019. Because that's what it takes. We are twelve months away, and twelve months closer to the so-called irreversible tipping points, where we as a human being are likely to lose our grip on the climate. And the sense of urgency seems to be completely lacking, not only in this Tax Plan and not just in this cabinet, but in many other political leaders around the world. That is surprising, because which political leader chooses to lose control? Our Prime Minister even has nightmares about the nitrogen crisis. Mind you, we are talking about a crisis caused by politicians who have waited far too long to do something and have insisted that we could continue with business as usual. These politicians invented the PAS, the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen. Now the same politicians have lost control, because the judge has put a line on the approach of VVD and CDA. Anyone could have seen that coming; read back the Acts. Mr. Chairman. Minister Wiebes will also not sleep too well from the Urgenda-pronunciation. Emergency measures could have been avoided, according to Pieter Boot of the Plan Bureau for the Environment. The cabinet should have taken action about four years ago. In that case, the Netherlands could also have complied with the Urgenda ruling, without closing the country. This too could have been seen by anyone; read back the Acts. If we continue on this basis, politics will lose control again, but now the judge will not take control of politicians who had too few responsibilities and too little sense of responsibility, but now our planet will cause this loss of control. Floods, climate refugees and major disruptions in financial markets will be the harbinger of a planet that leaves man permanently in the lurch. And politics doesn't feel the urgency. This Tax Plan fits in perfectly with that. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. My group therefore expected much more of this Tax Plan. In the written answers, for which I thank you, I read that we have to wait for three other tax laws that would help the climate. The Animal Party believes that these other tax laws do far too little. The flight tax is too low, the CO-minimum price for electricity companies has no effect and the overall CO-tax is charged only a part of the CO-emissions. If we look at these laws in conjunction with this Tax Plan, I can only conclude that the government is doing far too little in the tax field. Of the measures that are part of the Tax Measures Act Climate Agreement, only four do something for the climate. Does the Secretary of State agree with the Animal Party that the shift in the burden of storage of renewable energy, the reduction of the tax share in the household energy account and the increase in the transfer tax rate for non-dwellings are not climbing measures, but rather income-political measures with an indirect impact on the support base for, in this case, the climate approach? Can we at least agree on that? Mr. Chairman. Point 2: growth is not the solution, but the problem. Last year, the urgency did not resound in the words of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Change when he cheeredfully declared that the cost of combating climate change would be lower because of........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... When I asked this Secretary of State last year about the trees of Wiebes, which grew to the sky, he also continued to promote economic growth as a solution to get out of the climate emergency situation. But as Klaas van Egmond so clearly wrote in the Volkskrant: it is still not understood that in a finite world it is not possible to grow endlessly. And that's a truth like a cow. If we grow by 2.2% a year, we double the total economic output over a period of over 32 years. If what Wiebes tells us comes true, that means that you can imagine that in 2052 we will produce twice as much as we do at the moment. With the current system that is not possible at all. The world is already almost going down in plastic soup, we cannot control CO emissions and our country is slowly closing down because of the nitrogen problem. All because of our growth fetishism. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. Point 3: Urgenda. Some of the 40 measures proposed by Urgenda had fiscal components. The government recently decided how to implement these measures. In addition, a bit of non-committal shopping has been done in the criteria set out by the cabinet. For example, Urgenda's proposal to use the landlord's tax to make 100,000 homes energy neutral would not be cost-effective, but a ban on advertising meat would not be in line with the Climate Agreement. So the government's line seems to be: if an Urgenda measure is not included in the Climate Agreement, we will do nothing about it. Does the Secretary of State agree with the Animal Party that this government, as it is now acting, can never comply with the Urgenda judgment? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Point 4: Whoever slaughters is allowed to bleed a little bit themselves. The Animal Party has submitted a greening proposal to tax the production of meat. The slaughter tax provides for a number of things. Our proposal burdenes what is harmful and stimulates what is good. Meat is by far the most harmful part of our menu. It causes major climate and nitrogen problems. In addition, our meat addiction is disastrous for the animals in the bio-industry. Our proposal provides for the promotion of protein transition. The consumption of animal proteins is reduced and the consumption of plant proteins is stimulated. Our proposal also provides for clarity, because citizens, farmers, entrepreneurs and investors see where it is going. American investors in the meat industry are already convinced that governments will introduce meat taxes worldwide. And mind you, these aren't animal activists, I say for the VVD. These are women and men in expensive suits who earn a very fat sandwich from the meat industry. Mr. Chairman. Our proposal is not alone. This afternoon, the Finance Committee received a petition asking precisely for this: taxed meat fairly; do not blame the taxpayer for the social costs of meat. Our proposal for the slaughter tax responds to all these diverse noises in society. The debate on meat taxes has finally been tilted. Mr. Chairman. The following point: brief on the withholding tax Act. Why has a limited list of tax havens been chosen? Why wasn't it chosen to list non-EU countries? And why has a tariff of only 9% been chosen and not more? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. Like some of the speakers before me, my group is surprised at the reduction of the highest rate of income tax. It is no secret that the Animal Party is in favour of a reduction in the tax on labour. There are, however, a number of conditions. For example, the reduction must be accompanied by an increase in environmentally polluting production. That is hardly the case in this Tax Plan. In addition, the reduction should not go down unilaterally in the case of high incomes. It'll happen now. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr President, my final point. That is a question that is not directly about the Tax Plan, but which I would like to ask the Secretary of State. One of the best fiscal measures is a CO levy on imports of CO-intensive products. In Europe it is rumored that the new European Commission is going to make such a proposal. Such a proposal would, of course, help greatly, because it reduces the risk of a carbon leakage. Does the Secretary of State agree with this reasoning? Does he therefore agree with the observation that such a levy could greatly help to strengthen national climate policy? For example, the import of animal feed from South American countries. Can the Secretary of State indicate whether concrete plans are already in place in Europe, and if not, whether he sees a role for himself in this? Is he prepared to take the lead in Europe and to speed up a proposal that can really help the climate policy of several Member States? Mr President, I will conclude. This Tax Plan is at best a 2.5oC-Taxation Plan, while last year we explicitly expressed the wish and hope to lay down a 1.5oC-Taxation Plan. The Party for the Animals fears that this Secretary of State does not feel the urgency of the climate emergency. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u159	Thank you. Then Mr Van Otterloo of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u160	Thank you, Mr President. This is not our ideal tax plan far from it. It is particularly serious to note that, although the cabinet is making it easier to speak, there is nothing to be seen in the measures on balance. If the 2020 Tax Plan were to contribute to the simplification of the system on balance, this plan would not succeed, because that is not what the Cabinet achieves. It's obviously not a priority either. We have to be honest with each other: this plan does very different things. In 2020, new runways will be emerging, new exemptions will be introduced and more money will be available for tax concessions and surcharges than for normal tariff reductions. It is also not very likely to include simplifications in amendments. That's morbidity in the margins of a system that beeps and creaks. It is a system of high burdens, partly resulting from market forces in care and living, for which it in turn provides the citizens with compensatory allowances, while at the same time asking for citizens to be able to deliver more than they can. Because citizens are both required to develop great bureaucratic skills and to be able to predict the future. In many cases, amendments are just small new exceptions, which together add new complexity, rather than small simplifications that make one big one. Unfortunately, that is the reality. That is why we have only three amendments. We choose top priorities within the framework of the current Tax Plan, but of course that does not relieve us and all other parties of thinking about structural solutions. The call has already been heard more today: we need long-term responses to the major tax issues. We also assume that all the other parties will live up to their words that they are looking for something that really makes simplification happen. We are also looking forward to the election programmes on that point, to see what ideas are being put forward. This is your party, Secretary of State, and at a party it's rude to tell the host that everything is misorganized. But it is not rude to ask for a few snacks and drinks that can at least make our stay at your party more pleasant. That is why we have tabled these three amendments. First of all, we want a higher old age discount, partly in order to compensate for the rising energy costs, and we want a slower reduction in the old age discount. The cover comes from the deletion of the so-called Primark grant, i.e. the LIV. In addition, we have tabled an amendment to ensure that the small capacities in the first disk of box 3 are spared. In our view, this can also prevent the success of processes in 2020 and 2021 in objecting to what can nevertheless be regarded as an expropriation. I asked earlier, outside this legislative consultation, last time in the General Financial Reviews, about the possibilities of achieving it faster than the proposals made by the Secretary of State. Our amendment assumes that up to €100,000 will be used for the low rate of savings. So we are not going to get the 1 million exemption, but we are going to get an exemption of 1 tonne per person, in the sense of exemption at the low rate and without the assumption that people are going to invest there via shares. The third amendment concerns the income-dependent contribution to the Health Insurance Act. We would also like to raise these on incomes above €55,000. We want to use the proceeds to exempt the first €10,000 of everyone's income from the IAB premium. This amendment is, in our view, about budget neutrality and is also a matter of fact, but perhaps only the elderly among us will remember that compensation for the WUL, in which the elderly were not included. In dealing with the Social Affairs budget, my colleague Corrie van Brenk, like last year, will table a motion concerning an additional increase in the AOW and the minimum wage. We believe that with the total of these four statements, income policy can be made more balanced and that we are also much better prepared for setbacks: setbacks in inflation and wage developments. The main setback, of course, which is still in the air, is the threat of reductions in pensions. 50PLUS continues to fight to ensure that the discounts go off the table. If this does not work, substantial additional purchasing power requirements will be formulated to prevent the weather from falling apart, because it has been doing so for ten years. Although the CBS claims that everyone is getting older, it's nice that if you don't have an indexed pension for ten years and you're in a rental home, according to the CBS, you own your own property that you pay for. I hope it is not true, but it seems that there is still the possibility of reductions in the heads of government. I repeat: it is not forbidden to take the discounts off the table and it is not prohibited to vote in favour of our amendments. We're offering the chance. I'd say pick it up, it's winter and give older people more perspective to get through the winter. Nor have I received any answers to our written questions on the life-cycle regime. This is a legacy problem that most people will think is done, but I would like some answers. I also find it shocking that 630.000 Dutch people benefit from both labour discount and self-employment deduction: €7,000 tax advantage. I give it to everyone, so do these people, but in a way it is also tax avoidance. For many, there is also a mortgage interest deduction, an IACK or a rent allowance. Well, then you're gonna make a good living, but you're not gonna pay for anything. My group believes that there are good reasons for a much higher minimum hourly rate for self-employed workers. Many thanks to the Secretary of State for his answers to the questions on the reduction of working hours for pensioners. This helps 50PLUS to inform those Members who are facing problems here, although I must also note that the so-called silvering problem is serious and effectively interferes with purchasing power policy. The answers therefore give a shocking picture at this point. I will read a small piece on pages 16 and 17 of the note following the report to make it clear to colleagues how difficult it is. "Employers are informed, inter alia, by means of the Wage Charges Handbook and should apply the rules (including those of the Labour Reduction) themselves. There are no signs within the Tax Administration that employers forget to apply the employment discount in this case. It cannot be excluded that this occurs in an occasional case. In the case of a combination of an AOW benefit and a wage, a taxpayer may choose to have the wage tax rebate applied by the Social Insurance Bank. In that case, the employment discount shall not be applied. This can be rectified through income tax. If the taxpayer chooses to apply the wage tax reduction to the wage, rather than to the AOW benefit, then the employment discount shall be taken into account equally. AOW beneficiaries with the right to an employment discount cannot redeem part of their tax rebates if they have a low income or relatively high deductions. For example, a working AOW worker who is part of an AOW couple and does not have a supplementary pension cannot cash a part of his tax rebates up to a wage income of about €5,000. A single AOW beneficiary without a supplementary pension cannot redeem a part of his tax rebates up to a working income of about €3,000. These calculation examples are based on a situation without deductions." Well, Mr. Chairman. It looks like level 20 of Super Mario Bros 2, but it's not. It is the tax system with which we ask citizens to contribute to our collective provision. It's too bad it's being reduced to a game of flipping for money. Mr. Chairman. Smoking is mainly an addiction and for every addiction, stopping is good for the addict's wallet, in this case of the smoker. A smoker who can't or doesn't change his behavior will be €200 to €400 more expensive next year. Unfortunately, the Secretary of State cannot say that we have asked this question: how much price increase is actually needed in order to bring about a reduction in excise revenue. We still insist on that point. Because we are not talking about the yield, but about the result in terms of the number of smokers. I would like to add my voice to those colleagues who spoke about the bpm. I myself talked about this in the first period. We all want cars to become cleaner in principle and, among other things, less CO emissions. Then it doesn't help if you have to pay a higher bpm for the same car with the same specifications in 2019 than in 2018 and possibly a higher one in 2020 than in 2019. I understand that it's very difficult to get the reports and the examples flying around us to find exactly a hook to do it right. I am considering submitting a motion in the second term which, perhaps in all its simplicity, could provide a solution, namely simply establishing that the BPM for the same type of car cannot be higher by 2020 than in 2018. In that case, there's no SUV element in it. It's about the same car and then it should be about the same bpm. There shouldn't be any more conversion tricks. Then there's another point. I understand that the Secretary of State is now in agreement. That is another example in which the field finds something different from the Tax Administration. That point is the import of waste from abroad. I know that Mr Snels and his companion of D66 have made a readingable story about Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act. This is what I said in the first period of the legislative consultation, which is typically one of those examples in which you can ask yourself whether it is effective. If you do not want to import waste, because then air pollution can be reduced here: fine. It'll pay off. But if the result were to be that worse waste to be incinerated would have to be co-incinerated, resulting in an overall increase in air pollution, the measure would not be effective. It may be able to make some money, but it is not effective. We are looking for effective measures and not for measures that are primarily intended to generate money. We thank the Secretary of State for his answers on the recovery and the corrections by the Tax Administration. And I suppose it's 13, but it's exclusive of the surcharges. This is of course impossible for the listeners at home to follow. Numbers increased first and are now decreasing. Can the Secretary of State say whether there is a link with the introduction of income-related discounts? Much has already been said about the reduction of charges and the increase in charges. This cabinet is mainly raising issues, but there has been no real compensation for the enormous burdens of Rutte I and Rutte II. Pensioners were covered by a laundry list of misery, both by means of low-cost facilities and by non-indexation. And the working middle class was mainly burdened, while profits have increased significantly, and the balance between workers and wealthy people has been further disrupted. I also hear the cabinet say that the money is not spent because there is a lack of staff, but for relief you need very few staff. And the less surplus we have in the years to come because the money has ended up with the citizens, the less likely it is that it will throw people elsewhere in the EU at the wrong idea. We are also looking for the effectiveness of the ODE, the SDE+ and the SDE++. These are also of those terms that other people no longer understand. It is not possible for greenhouse horticulture to be affected, but for gas to be used instead of electricity instead of glass. That forces people to go the other way, and then you have to deal with perfide stimuli again. I have already said in the first time, in the legislative consultation, that we could have a halving of the landlord's tax. That's what we were planning last year. We believe that everything that is needed should be built, and that it is not a scarce commodity. This is also the subject of Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act. And every now and then I wish Minister Bogaers was still here. Because he had to resign because he didn't build 120,000, but 110,000 homes in one year. Our production is a long way from that at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u161	Just for the amateur historians among us: in what year was that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u162	Out of my mind, I say, '66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u163	'66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u164	Was it 1766?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u165	Was it 1766, Mr Mulder asked. Oh, I hear it was 1966. Well, you can come back to this tomorrow in the second term. The members can also win something if they get the year right. I call Mr Stoffer. He's the last speaker on the side of the Chamber. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u166	Mr. Chairman. When I heard the beginning of Mr Van Raan's speech, I thought that I could copy it in no time. Because I, too, am entering the debate now and have not participated in the first two days. And I, too, am putting forward six points. And I thought, "That'll stop the deal." But we even have one point where we agree: the withholding tax law. I'm just gonna call it. Mr. Chairman. A lot of people are members of an association. Some are members of a sports association, others of a singing association and so on. And if you are a member of such an association, then you are generally also obliged to pay a contribution. Perhaps the Secretary of State and my colleagues have experience of this. And that contribution is then used, for example, in the football association for new purposes, and in the music association for instruments. And so everyone contributes in a fair and just way. And if someone comes out of a household with two workers, that doesn't mean that he or she is suddenly allowed to pay a lot more. And if you happen to have a greenhouse horticulture company, you don't have to pay any more. In fact, you should see our society as well: everyone makes a contribution to making the Netherlands work. In popular terms, we call that taxes. I was thinking, I didn't think of it myself, because someone else made me the suggestion that it would be good to call it the "social contribution plan" in the coming period. Maybe then we as Dutch people with much more love pay those taxes. At least it sounds a lot more friendly. But these contributions must, of course, be designed in a fair and just way. I would like to address a few points where I believe that taxation or social contribution can be more just than is currently proposed. I'll start with the burdens on the companies. Mind you, I'm not gonna make a plea to overly support the companies. Our business in the Netherlands is of such quality that it can take care of itself very well. But they do have to be treated properly and sometimes, very often, they fail to do so. For example, corporate tax would be reduced first, but now it does not happen anymore. Zzp'ers eagerly await the results of the Commission's regulation of work, but now the self-employed deduction is severely reduced. I am in favour of a clear policy towards businesses and entrepreneurs, because now, very often, it looks like a yo-yo policy. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, such a surprise is also found in the Tax Measures Act Climate Agreement. I am talking about increasing the storage renewable energy tax on electricity. Other colleagues have already mentioned this, because that third disc is suddenly increased by as much as 177%. Energy costs for companies are increasing enormously. The increase in the burden of tens of thousands of euros will have a major impact on business operations, particularly for greenhouse horticulture. Mr Omtzigt has just indicated what that might mean. Tens of thousands of euros per company; that is not a change. I can imagine that you think that this money is being used for the transition to renewable energy and that in the long term companies will get a lower energy bill. But that is precisely where the problem lies, because a huge amount of money is being drawn into the reserve for renewable energy. From 2028 onwards, this reserve will be nearly 1.7 billion, and at least until 2032 it will remain so. No data are available for the following years, so in future the money will remain in the reserve and the proceeds of the massive increase in the ODE levy will not be spent directly. I know, of course, that all kinds of agreements have been made in the Climate Agreement. The burden-sharing between citizens and businesses needs to change and the ODE tax would indeed increase. But the current rise is out of proportion. The greenhouse horticulture has a separate paragraph in the Climate Agreement, but there is no mention of the ODE levy. Due to the increase in the ODE levy, climate measures are counterproductive, because horticulture companies have invested enormously in sustainability in recent years. Many have largely switched from the use of gas to the use of electricity and are now being billed. They're being punished for their climate measures. There are even companies that are considering going back to using gas, because that has become more advantageous. And that's not what the Secretary of State wants, what this cabinet wants, is it? Mr. Chairman. I keep talking about companies, but that's not the end of it. Because an elementary school also sees the burden rise by 44%. That's almost a double. An academic hospital will be able to pay 159% more ODE tax. I don't think I can explain that. I therefore call on the Secretary of State to reduce the rate in the third disc. Let's put it at €0.01 per kilowatt hour for next year. My question to the Secretary of State is whether he is prepared to do so. We have already helped the Secretary of State and tabled an amendment on this. The next year can be used to examine the effects of a further increase in the ODE levy in the third disc, also in the light of the Climate Agreement. As far as I am concerned, this should be done in consultation with the sectors concerned in order to look at the proper and fair distribution of the burden. Because as a SGP, we have always said that climate plans must be affordable and that they must be supported. That is why I am pleased that, just before the recess, two motions were adopted almost unanimously: a motion from the CDA and a motion from the VVD. Both addressed the need to involve small and medium-sized enterprises in climate plans and to monitor the potential problems faced by companies through climate policy. Indeed, it is crucial for companies to have support for climate plans. It is also crucial for companies to be involved in the development of climate plans. My appeal to the Secretary of State is therefore: postpone part of the rate increase in the ODE tax for a year. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to my second point, which is a little less long than my first, so in that respect we come fairly close to your intended end time. I'm gonna talk about the one-earner. I am glad that there is more and more attention to it in the Chamber. Indeed, one earner does not just vote SGP. I'd love to, then we'd be the second largest party here in the Chamber at once. Anyway, that would be a pity for the VVD, because it would have to turn in at least six seats. Since 2009, the transferable tax rebate has been reduced. €661 could still be transferred in 2019 and by 2020 it will only be €542. I think that the discount has now been reduced so much that anyone who could but did not want to work at the time has a job. Those who are still a earner now, very often do not choose to do so themselves. They have to care for a sick parent, a sick child or his caregiver for someone on the street. The day before yesterday was Mantelzorg Day. They deserve that appreciation, too. The transferable tax rebate is such a valuation for some of those carers. I am therefore also considering tabling an amendment to freeze the reduction. There is now only a very small amount that can be transferred. As far as I'm concerned, we have to keep it that way, and let's call it a care payment. Those who still receive care pay are often caregivers or contribute in a different way to society. And as a nice bycatch, we could finally narrow the gap between one and two earners. Mr. Chairman. Then I move on to my third point: box 3. There will be a new proposal, and I call on the Secretary of State to make every effort to implement this new regulation as early as 2021. In addition, I would like to stress once again that the burden sharing between groups needs to be carefully considered. Because it cannot be that someone who has more than 4 tonnes in his savings account will pay zero euro tax and someone who, for example, has bought an apartment for his student son or daughter will suddenly have to pay thousands of euros extra. I would very much like a response from the Secretary of State. My fourth point is that it is really fast, isn't it? Because next year, according to the plans, a tax on imported waste will be levied. The impact on the climate is very debatable in this respect, as no revenue is budgeted from 2022 onwards. Unfortunately, however, the impact on waste processors is not so small. They lose 24% of the waste they can process. Is the Secretary of State prepared to take into account the financial impact on waste processors and to revise the levy if the consequences are significant or if processors might even fall over? How are the effects of the levy monitored in concrete terms? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the fifth point, in which I agree with the Animal Party, the law on withholding tax. Because part of this Tax Plan is the withholding tax law. That is a good first step to counter tax avoidance. But I do have the impression that I should call it a step-by-step. I do have doubts about effectiveness if we choose to apply a tax rate of only 9% as a low-taxed country. If you really want to make it effective, I think a higher percentage is needed. Oxfam Novib has calculated that developing countries, thanks to Dutch tax constructions, miss over $100 billion in tax revenue. I do not think that this proposal is going to be much different. If the amount is reduced by this law, I'd love to hear it. However, I have the impression that this is a first step and that further steps are needed. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore also what steps he intends to take in the near future in order to deal with this. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to my last topic, the bpm, the tax on newly sold cars. By means of a new method of calculating the bpm, this load will change for many cars from 1 July next year. According to the Secretary of State, it remains budget-neutral at macro level, but an investigation by KPMG.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... And we are not even talking about the increase in recent years, which, according to the study, amounts to around 600 million. At macro level, budget-neutral sounds great, but it actually says very little, because it can just mean that a lot of people buying a new car are getting worse. Especially in the case of small economical cars, the bpm would increase considerably, as we hear from the industry. Budget neutrality seems to me to be a very good starting point, but if it ultimately leads to the burden being borne by a small group, I do not think that is desirable. I have three questions about this. A: Can the Secretary of State reassure me and show me that the BPM increase does not just end up with a limited group of cars, thus putting the burden on a small group of buyers? Secondly, can the Secretary of State indicate how many cars, according to the calculation, are progressing by percentage and how much of them are falling? Three: can the Secretary of State undertake to present an overview by the end of 2020 showing the bpm revenues of the first, second and third quarters? If the results of the KPMG study are correct and indeed much more is being retrieved, then we can still send them in a fairly short time. Mr President, I should like to leave it at that. I'm curious to hear the Secretary of State's answers, but I think we'll hear them tomorrow. So that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u167	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-12.u168	I promised you it would be 7:45 p.m., but we went over that for two minutes anyway. I'm not as sharp as I used to be. I admit it. Thank you to the Secretary of State for his presence. Tomorrow, Deo volente, at 4:15 p.m., we're gonna listen to the answers. I will close the meeting on 12 November. So far.
