ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u1	The next item is the second term of office of the Kingdom Disputes Act (35099). I would like to welcome the members of the House of Representatives, including Mr Van Raak, who stands for the interrupting microphone. I would like to welcome the special delegate nominated by the States of Curaçao, Mrs McMc. William and the special delegates nominated by the States of Aruba, Mr Thijsen, Mr Tjon, Mr Sneek and Mr Arends, and Mrs Lopez-Tromp, who have once again taken our place. I would also like to welcome the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. In addition, the authorised Minister of Saint Maarten, Mrs Wuite, the authorised Minister of Aruba, Mr Besaril, and the authorised Minister of Curaçao, Mr Begina, took part in trade-K. I would also like to welcome them and their colleagues, all of whom have taken part in the President's Lodge. Finally, I welcome the Deputy Plenipotentiaries Minister of Aruba, Mr Paris, and the Deputy Plenipotentiaries Minister of Saint Martin, Mr Somersall, and the Deputy Plenipotentiaries Minister of Curaçao, Mrs Eisden, who will support the members of the States of Curaçao. You make me restless, Mr. Van Raak. What's going on? Tell me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u2	I'm also getting a little restless, because it seems to be a very historic day. It seems that there is agreement on a dispute settlement. Only, that should be summarised in an amendment and I do not have that amendment. I'm directly the first speaker...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u3	Oh, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u4	... and I would very much like to talk about that amendment, but the egg has not yet been laid. So what am I supposed to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u5	Yeah, I find that complicated, too. What the...? Yes, Mr. Van Dam. Tell me. Do you have a solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u6	I would like to ask you first to say: you, Mr Van Dam!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u7	Oh, it's nice to see you again, Mr. Van Dam. Tell me!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u8	'Cause it's gonna be a really long day.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u9	Yeah, that's right. You're absolutely right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u10	I'm excited. I also feel like it because I also think that something good is going to happen, but there is still some procedural activity to be done. It has to be done. I would ask you to put in a small suspension just to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u11	Okay. Has everyone heard Mr Van Dam's proposal of order? Yeah? Anybody mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u12	No, I'm almost cheering, but how long is that gonna take? Because we have an agenda until 2:00 a.m. tonight, so we can't just sit around and wait for it to happen. So what is the end time and can we not start organising other debates?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u13	Just so I'm clear, couldn't this conversation have taken place before I resumed the meeting? That would have made it a little easier.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u14	I was assured that the amendments would be there before the debate began. What do you suggest, Mr. Van Dam? How long should the suspension be?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u15	Mr President, I propose 10 minutes. If it's sooner, I'll report here immediately, immediately and immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u16	Then why don't we suspend until 3:05? Mr. Van Raak, can you live with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u17	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u18	Well, good to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u19	We will proceed with the treatment of the Reichswet. We had arrived at the second term of office. I am using two minutes' speaking time. As was the case last Tuesday, the Dutch MEPs alternate with the representatives of Curaçao and Aruba. Everyone is free, of course, to speak or not to speak. Mr Van Raak is already standing by. Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u20	Mr. Chairman. We are at a special moment in the Kingdom. For nine years, our governments have negotiated a dispute settlement. It has not been possible to reach agreement. Now it looks like the egg is being laid anyway. We're all still looking at that weird egg we laid together. We're looking forward to seeing what's coming out. At the moment, during the debate, the amendments are coming in. So we see real legislation in practice here: representatives of four parliaments of the Kingdom who work together to settle disputes. I'm proud of that. I hope it works. What I've seen so far makes me very happy and happy. I hope the Secretary of State will be, too. If we had a dispute settlement at the end of this afternoon, that would be fantastic. But we must also, of course, ensure that disputes, disputes and disputes are avoided as much as possible in the future. That's why the next motion. The Chamber, heard the debate, noting that decisions of the Kingdom often lead to disputes with the countries; noting that differences in the interpretation of the Staff Regulations play a role in these disputes; calls on the Governments of Aruba, Curaçao, Sint-Maarten and the Netherlands, in a joint consultation, to clarify the responsibilities of the countries individually and of the Kingdom as a whole, and to inform the parliaments thereof, and goes to the order of the day. The President shall: This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raak, Mr Tjon and Mrs Mc. William and members Bosman, Van Dam, Bishop, Diertens, Chicken and Drost. She's getting No. 23 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u21	Thank you, Madam President. I underline the 2010 Wever/Thijsen amendment. I also underline the Van Laar motion from 2015. I would like to underline the views of the experts, the state lawyers. On this basis, I have tabled an amendment which meets those conditions. But politics is making compromises, finding each other. That is why I have withdrawn my first amendment, my amendment on the Administrative Court Division. Instead, there are two amendments. The first one I submitted together with my colleague from the Lower House Mr Van Dam. This concerns a new Department of Kingdom Disputes of the Council of State. Then I also tabled an amendment together with my colleagues, Mr Diertens and Mr Van Raak, on tightening up Article 8. Mr. Chairman. Politics is compromise. Politics is finding each other. I repeat my words: let policy not divide us, but let justice unite us and unite us. With these two new amendments I hope to meet the basis of the compromise with my Dutch colleagues. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u22	Thank you, Mr. Thijsen. I now give the floor to Mr Drost on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The suspension of the last two days no, it was actually only one day; in my opinion it was a bit longer... has led to a lot of consultation in the background. I think that was good and constructive consultation. We've exchanged words. This has led to a number of amendments that have been tabled, including one of my own. I have tabled an amendment dealing with Article 1 of the Kingdom's Law. The amendment provides that, even where the President of the National Council of Ministers decides that a dispute does not arise in the dispute settlement, the State Council of the Kingdom or a separate Chamber may nevertheless request an opinion from it, subject to the amendment that has been tabled. A number of other amendments have been tabled which, as far as I am concerned, help to reach a joint agreement with the countries. In doing so, we must not, in my view, intend to argue with each other, because I do not think that is the intention of a dispute settlement. But where there is a difference of opinion as to where the Kingdom's responsibility begins and where it ends and where a country's sovereignty and own responsibility begins, the dispute settlement as it now stands, including the amendments tabled by some of my colleagues, is, in my view, a very good arrangement and a sound means of providing such a dispute with a good and thorough opinion. In doing so, the Secretary of State stated in the first term that it was important that, in very serious circumstances and in crisis situations, there should also be a safety valve, as he put it, in this dispute settlement system. To this end, we have provided for a clarification of Article 8 of the law in one of the amendments. We have also regulated this, I think, as an important step for the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, that should a decision still be taken that differs from what is in the judgment, which can still be made public. This is how it can be discussed in public, and it can also be involved in the evaluation of the law, which is also covered by an amendment. All this, in my view, means that the countries with the law as it stands, including the amendments, will soon be able to rely on a proper dispute settlement. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u24	Thank you, Mr. Drost. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Diertens. Who wants to do the talking? I've got the list right here. Mr. Arends, I'm sorry. Mr. Arends on behalf of AVP Aruba.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u25	Thank you, Madam President. It will not have escaped us that the present draft of the Rijkswet represents a shift from what we already regard as "Kingdom matters" to a more subjective form of "interests of the Kingdom." Wherever last Tuesday, during my first term, an attempt has been made to correct that understanding and to specify more precisely who is doing what and who is to be responsible, the present draft opts for a more fluid and time-sensitive interpretation. What can be of interest to the Kingdom today does not have to be in 20 years' time. Law and case law should provide legal certainty and be able to pass the test of time. Your Chamber will not be unaware that when you talk about Kingdom relations or their revision or about making arrangements for parking problems and discussions elsewhere, this almost always has a negative taste. So we should not leave this Chamber and assume that Kingdom matters must by definition lead to disputes. After all, we are all politicians who have been looking at the scope of our constitutional system in recent days. If I may, Madam President, I would like to express my sincere thanks to all the political parties who, yesterday and also in recent days, have been here with us, the Aruban delegation and the Curaçao delegation, and have shown their political will to reach a compromise. I agree with the Secretary of State on the basis of the present draft of the state law that you do not always have to talk about it, but that there must be proper implementation of what has been agreed. Well, that's pretty much unsupported. To conclude, as Mr Thijsen, President Thijsen, pointed out, the new amendment is a reflection of the three conditions which should have been met by the Kingdom's Law. There are no other options. The other option is merely a rewritten proposal of state law, which is a repeat of Article 12. In our consultative role as special delegates, therefore, we sincerely hope that Mr Thijsen's amendment will be supported. If that is not possible, our party, the Aruban People's Party, is a long-term party with regard to Kingdom relations. It took us 40 years to get the status separately. If it does not work tonight, I am sure that we will at least stay in order to arrive at a real dispute settlement. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u26	Thank you, Mr. Arends. Mr Van Raak has a question. Oh, that's not a question for Mr Arends. Then you may sit down again, Mr. Arends. Maybe it's a question for me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u27	I have an announcement to the chairman. We are now in the middle of legislation. I would very much like to endorse an amendment tabled by Mr Thijsen. In speed, that's just gone a little bit wrong. I am now under the Amendment No. 19 by Mr Thijsen. That should actually be done under the amendment to item No. 20... 20... 20... 20... 20... 20... 20... 20... 20... 20... 20... 20... 20... 20... 20... 20... 20... 20... 20...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u28	Then we're gonna change that. I think that is because of the speed with which amendments have been made and circulated. So maybe that's a corporate accident. I don't know, but it's being corrected. I'm looking at Mrs. Diertens. Yeah? Mrs Diertens on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It was a special debate. I started my story yesterday with the remark that a 1,000-mile journey starts with a first step. I feel like my step-writer's freaked out these days. We had a heated discussion yesterday and there has been a lot of consultation with all the parties. I would like to thank all my fellow Members very, very much for that, because I believe that everyone is doing so with the best of intent. I would also like to table an amendment. That is the Diertens/Kuiks amendment, which ensures that if the National Council of Ministers deviates from the opinion of the Council of State, the reasons for this are made public. I also support Mr Thijsen's amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Diertens. Mr Van Dam has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u31	Mr President, I know the agenda for this day, so I will be brief. We have just seen that Mr Van Raak has removed his name under the amendment to item No. 19. I think that is wise, because that amendment actually runs counter to everything we have done with each other over the last few days. Would Mrs. Diertens also be willing to get her name out of there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u32	No, I'm not prepared to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u33	Could you perhaps explain why you are not prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u34	Because, in cooperation with the countries, we have made a very strong contribution to the amendment on the first proposal. We reached a compromise on this subject in negotiation, in which we could all agree as a basis. I was very comfortable with that, too. We have now come up with a watered down version of that proposal, in which we do not agree very well. We also think that this is a good proposal, but I want to make it clear in principle that I am in favour of Thijsen's amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u35	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u36	This means that, should this be adopted, you will consider it more important than the state law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u37	No, I still hope we come to a good solution of everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Diertens. I shall now give the floor to Mrs McMc. William. Oh, I'm looking at the wrong side. I'm sorry. Mrs. Mc. William is from MAN Curaçao.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u39	Thank you, Madam President. The discussion on dispute settlement remains a reflection of the democratic deficit in the Kingdom. Today, some of my fellow Members will be presenting some amendments aimed at achieving the best possible acceptance. There will be no perfect dispute settlement, but hopefully the best possible dispute settlement with the amendments tabled by Mr Thijsen, Mr Chicken and Mr Diertens. Madam President. And if it is not possible to achieve support for these amendments in the House of Representatives today, then Curaçao's position, in line with Professor Van Rijn's position, would rather have no law than a half-baked arrangement that you will never get rid of. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u40	Thank you, Mrs Mc. William. I'll see if there's a need for Mr. Sneek to say something. No? Then I will go to Mrs Özütok, on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to express my appreciation for the defence by the Secretary of State. With almost the entire Chamber against its proposal, it must not have been an easy task yesterday. Many thanks also to the representatives of the countries of Curaçao, Aruba and Saint Martin. Your presence has greatly improved the liveliness of the debate. But above all you remind us that our country is also yours: the Kingdom of the Netherlands. I still miss the idea that we should do it together and in equality in the Kingdom. I sincerely believe in the Secretary of State's good intentions, and with him I sincerely hope that the dispute settlement never needs to be activated. But I am not confident that it will lead to satisfactory conflict resolution if it does. The Secretary of State is not prepared to make concessions, and I regret that, also in view of the substantial deviations from the criteria for the government laid down by the Chamber in 2015. While poldering is in our DNA, the Secretary of State also considers the use of mediation unnecessary. He does not even care to specify the grounds on which the opinion of the National Council of State may be waived. That would take away a lot of my worries. For my group, it is important not to deviate lightly from the opinion of an independent High College of State, although we would have preferred to place the power of decision entirely with the National Council. Mr. Chairman. I call on the Secretary of State to look favourably at the amendments tabled by the Chamber and the representation of the countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u42	Thank you, Mrs Özütok. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Lopez-Tromp. No? Then I'll go to Mr. Bosman of the VVD. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u43	Thank you. I too would like to begin by thanking the Secretary of State and his team, because this has been hard worked on. Things have been put on the agenda here that lead to decision-making. Of course we are also here as parliamentarians to do our job and we think and watch. I look back at my input, in which it was about responsibility and cooperation. I think we have given a small example here of taking responsibility and working together. That also means we have to find each other. As I said, no proposal will be perfect, but if you wait for perfection you can sometimes wait a long time and you have nothing better than the enemy of good, I have said, and that would be a shame, because we are close. And yet it was just said that the proposal of the Secretary of State or of the National Council of Ministers was far from us. When you look at the Van Laar motion, you can see that a lot of things were close together. That also brought us to a moment when you say: it is feasible. If I see what lies now, what has been laid down together, I think we can be proud of that. I am, of course, waiting to see how the Secretary of State will judge the amendments, but the VVD is very positive about this. In my speech I also spoke about the Statute, about the concerns about the Statute and about whether the dispute settlement would ultimately be the solution to the disputes that will arise. I'm still not convinced of that. I think a proper dispute settlement is important, but this is not going to resolve the disputes. It still applies: if the responsibilities within the Kingdom are not clear, if there is any uncertainty about them, then we need to get them clear. I am therefore extremely pleased with Mr Van Raak's motion, which certainly includes my name. I very much hope that we can have a serious and in-depth discussion of this together with all the countries of the Kingdom. I hope that people are willing to say 'gosh, here we have to change something, that statute must be different' and then willing to say where else to go. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u44	Thank you, Mr. Bosman. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Dam. No? Then we have arrived at the end of the second term from the side of the Chamber. I'm looking at the Secretary of State. Is there a need for a short suspension? Yes. About 20 minutes? Well, let's do that. We're here, aren't we? Then I'll suspend the meeting for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u45	I give the floor to the Secretary of State. No, before I give the floor to the Secretary of State, I shall give Mr Thijsen the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u46	For the sake of clarity, I would like to make it clear that I am voting on the Amendment No 2. 15 of them moved in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u47	The Thijsen amendment (Doc. 15) has been withdrawn. I note that this is agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This has been an important debate in two days. We've seen that before. Because it's about something. In fact, it is a question of how, within the Kingdom, we carry out the task assigned to us by amendment, namely to complete Article 12a of the Statute: the dispute settlement system. I have listened carefully to the contributions of the speakers, both in the first and second periods. First of all, I would like to thank them for their input. I've got one. Can I say that? In particular, in the second term, delegates and MPs have heard a slightly different tone than in the first period. I am very pleased to hear that, because that was the result of many conversations that have taken place, even outside this Chamber, to meet each other. Several speakers have also called for this in the first place. And they have not left it to words, but they have actually tried to make sure that something is there, and that at the end of the debate we do not have to conclude that there is a dispute about the dispute settlement. I repeat Mr Bosman in this case, but I say it myself often too: the better is the enemy of good. And if it's okay, then we have to do it. And if we can do better, then the evaluation will also show that. That is also the attitude I have tried to convey in the first term. I have also heard it reflected on the side of the speakers. I am very pleased with that, because the Kingdom is something to be proud of, to cherish and to maintain. There are, of course, differences. Mr Van Raak said: it is better to avoid disputes than to discuss them. We have already discussed this in the first place. That is true, but we are now making a settlement, at least there is now a proposal of law, to get out of it in a good way in the situation that you do have a dispute. So I am also very pleased with the tone and willingness of various sides to see how we can get something that can count on support. It has been said by a number of speakers in the first term: acceptance is extremely important. It is. But perhaps it is even more important that we have the confidence that, even if it is not perfect, we are going to work together on this, and that we know that, also on the basis of the evaluation as part of the legal text, there is also the possibility to adjust if there are unintended effects. That's just what we have to say. We're transparent about that. Mr. Chairman. In relation to time too, I understand that there is a bit of pressure on the always busy agenda on the last day before the recess, I would point out that I have already given an opinion on the amendments tabled before the beginning of the first term. So I'm not gonna do that right now. That was, by the way, including the amendment to item No. 14, on which Mrs Özütok spoke, on mediation. I have already given an opinion on this, namely that I do not wish to recommend that amendment. I shall therefore confine myself now to the appreciation of the amendments that have been new or amended, if you will allow me to do so. And, of course, I appreciate the motion tabled by Van Raak, with many other signatories. Then I come to the amendment to item No. 18 by Mr Bishop. That was about the evaluation. This amendment amends Mr Bishop's earlier amendment, namely the Amendment No. 17. I'd already given you an appreciation of that. This amendment now stipulates that the evaluation will take place after three years rather than after five years. It also adds a subject to be included in the evaluation, namely "the frequency of the rejected requests to initiate a dispute procedure and the reasons on which they were based." Mr. Chairman. During my first term, I left the opinion on Mr Bishop's original amendment to the Chamber. And although I doubt it is actually not a doubt, but perhaps a lot of it is that we will have sufficient practical experience in three years' time, because we all hope that the dispute settlement will not be applied so often, I also have no objection to this shortening of the deadline. And with the addition to the list of subjects to be dealt with, I can do just fine. My appreciation of the amendment will therefore not change. 18 to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u49	Shortly, Mr. Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u50	Yeah, clear. I understand the discussion about those five or three years, but it is not intended to go away after three years. If we have not had any disputes to evaluate, then there is still the possibility to say: we will do that again for three years. Or should we then come up with a new amendment or a new proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u51	I'll just have to get the lyrics.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u52	It says, after three years. After three years of evaluation. When that is the only thing, the amendment would expire after three years. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u53	I did not table the amendment, so that would be a question for the author. I cannot imagine that the amendment is intended to be so. At least, I have not read it in such a way that if after three years no evaluation has taken place because there has been no dispute, everything lapses. 'Cause you're gonna want to evaluate eventually.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u54	I think this ruling is part of the legal process. That's enough for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u55	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u56	The explanatory statement could be amended on this point. That is what I am considering to the author of this amendment. It may adjust the time limit in such a way that, if the evaluation has not taken place within three years, it shall take place as soon as possible thereafter. I shall now turn to the Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and I would just like to mention the amendment which refers to a procedure in the interests of legal development. So that is a kind of test, which looks at how you deal with disputes or procedures, even though they have not actually taken place. This amendment aims to create a profession after the decision...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u57	Before you go any further, I would like to say a few words about the amendment to item No. 18 by Mr Bishop. Maybe I should have said that earlier. Mr Bishop is not here. He is considering withdrawing the amendment at the vote this evening. That's up to him. He has to do that himself, personally, with an amendment, so you can't do it for him, Mrs. Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u58	I know that, but I would like to return to that amendment, which is now the Amendment No 2. 18 is. The explanatory statement will be briefly supplemented by the suggestion made by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u59	It is an amendment by Mr Bishop. Only Mr Bishop can say anything about that. That's how it goes with an amendment. So we'll see it tonight, or tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u60	That's right, but I did say it here, of which I'm aware.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u61	I have one question, because I have just heard the President say that Mr Bishop wants to withdraw the amendment. I don't think that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u62	It is up to Mr Bishop himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u63	Yes, of course it is up to Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u64	We're gonna see. We'll hear about it tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u65	Okay. Then there is the amendment to item No. 21 by Mr Drost. The purpose of this amendment is to create an appeal after the decision has become final, in those exceptional cases where the President of the RMR rejects a request from an Plenipotentiary Minister to initiate a dispute procedure because a major Kingdom interest requires urgent decision-making. Mr. Chairman. I am sympathetic to this amendment. It allows the Caribbean countries to obtain an opinion from the Section on a dispute. The amendment may as such be important for the development of the law. I have already said in an earlier period that I think that is an important point. This can also provide protection for the countries in future cases, in the sense that such an opinion in the interests of legal development can provide a certain clarity on the application of jurisdiction by the Kingdom. I do have two expectations. Firstly, if such a procedure were to be followed and it were to be to the detriment of the Kingdom Government in a specific case, that government would in future adapt its practice to that in similar cases. Secondly, on the other hand, I expect the countries, if the outcome were to be to the disadvantage of the countries in a specific case, to take this into account in similar cases in the future, for example when deciding whether or not to use the dispute settlement; a kind of reciprocity. With that mark, my appreciation of the amendment is Chamber's judgment. Then I come to the amendment to item No. 25, that the old amendment to item No. 20 replaces. It was filed by Thijsen, Van Dam, Van Raak and Bosman. The purpose of this amendment is to create a new section at the Council of State, the Kingdom Disputes Section. That department should be entrusted with the assessment of disputes under the state law. The purpose of the amendment is to emphasise that the assessment of Kingdom disputes is different from regular advice. The Caribbean contribution is also being increased. The composition of the new section is largely in line with that of the Advisory Section, provided that it is explicitly provided that the Staff Regulations appointed for the Kingdom also form part of the new section and that three additional State Councils, one of each country, are appointed in extraordinary service, on a proposal from the Caribbean countries. At this stage of the legislative process, it is not easy to make such an institutional change. The Council of State has not been formally heard about this, either in the context of legislative advice or as an interested party, because it also looks at the organisation of the Council of State, if I sum up. That is a pity, even since the appointment of the new State Councils in extraordinary service differs from the regular appointment procedure on a number of points. In this way, I assume that the proposal made by the Caribbean countries for the appointment does not bind the government. Apart from that, this amendment significantly amends the Council of State Act. In any case, I would like to point out that if this amendment were to be adopted by your Chamber, it would have to be discussed further, at least with the Council of State. In view of these objections, I think it might be better for your Chamber to vote only on the amendments later and to hold the final vote on the whole proposal of the law until the Council of State is consulted on this point alone, because that is not the case with the other amendments. That is what I am considering to the Chamber. It is, of course, up to the Chamber to find something of this, but I would like to say that the Council of State has a position in this matter in the advisory sense and as a subject of debate. I think the Council of State as High College of State should be heard in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u66	This can give rise to many other things, buts and questions that I will not ask now. Can the Secretary of State give an indication as to what period he expects the Council of State to reply? I know that this is an issue for the representatives of the countries, because we want to prevent this from being postponed for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u67	I don't think so, but I should check. At least it's not today. It is unlikely that the whole Council will reach an opinion on this before last night's votes. That's not gonna work. This is a rather far-reaching proposal. I need to figure out how long that's gonna take.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u68	It is out of his power, because he too does not dictate the agenda of the Council of State. But could the Secretary of State at least hear the wish of the Chamber that all the haste that is required is desirable?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u69	I'd like to convey that feeling.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u70	What's the verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u71	I could judge Chamber in itself if the Chamber followed the procedure to vote on the amendments, but not on the state law. If the Chamber also says that it should vote on the state law, I must advise against it on that formal point, otherwise I will cut off the Council of State from the road and the pass. I would find that inappropriate in my position. The Chamber can't ask me to do that either. That's why I shouldn't recommend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u72	Then that's clear. Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u73	Would it not therefore be appropriate to postpone voting on this amendment? Otherwise, we will put the Council of State right in front of us. That's just a question I'm raising.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u74	Then we really should not vote on all the amendments. It's hard to get one out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u75	I suggest we just vote on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u76	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u77	The point is that if you do not vote on the amendment now, we do not know what the position of the Chamber is. My plea would be a cut after the vote on the amendments and the proposal of the law, but that is up to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u78	Yeah, that's right. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u79	Then there is the amendment to item No. 26 members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. That was the old amendment to part No. 22. The purpose of this amendment is to bring the comment I have made on the derogation of the RMR to the level of law. Given my earlier argument to be clear about safety valves, I can live well with that. The second part of this amendment concerns the clarification that a derogation must also be justified. We assumed that this bill already required this without explicit regulation, but I have no objection to it. I can leave the opinion on this amendment to the House. I shall now turn to the amendment in its entirety. No 24. That was amendment No. 19. The purpose of this amendment is to provide for a derogation by the RMR from the opinion of the Section for Advice under Article 8 to be examined by the same Section for Advice. I must advise against this amendment. In this way all objections can be raised again and a procedure should be considered to be genuinely concluded at some point. This ensures that disputes can drag on endlessly, and no one will benefit from it. Whether the RMR deviated from the department's judgements in an unreasonable manner is something that should be addressed during the evaluation. Moreover, the amendment is not clear as to what would happen if the section in the second instance considered that the RMR could not reasonably achieve a deviation. If the RMR is then bound by that judgment, the question would be. In my speech last Tuesday, I think I made it quite clear why the government does not think this is a good idea. I must advise against this amendment. Then I come to the motion on part No. 23 members of Van Raak, Tjon, McWilliam, Bosman, Van Dam, Bishop, Diertens, Kuiken and Drost in which the governments of Aruba, Curaçao, Sint-Maarten and the Netherlands are invited to discuss the responsibilities of the countries individually and of the Kingdom as a whole and to inform the parliaments of this. This motion links the dispute settlement to the importance of a clear division of responsibilities in the Statute. That is how I heard the author speak in the first term. I understand this motion and note that it is also supported by the Caribbean representatives. However, I would like to make a number of comments. First of all, I find it complicated that the motion should be addressed to the governments of the four countries and not to the government of the Kingdom. It is a responsibility of the four countries. Secondly, I would point out that Mr Van Raak attached the importance of an evaluation of the Staff Regulations to the guarantee function, Article 43 of the Staff Regulations. At least that's how I understood it. Thirdly, I note that it is not entirely clear to me what the motion calls for. I read about a meeting, but what exactly is that supposed to lead to? Unfortunately, a firm commitment to results cannot always be guaranteed in the Kingdom, if that is the question to me. You can ask me for an effort commitment, I will take it to heart, but a result commitment is a lot more difficult, especially if the motion is addressed to me and then asks other parties to do so. If I take Mr Van Raak's motion c.s. I should like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council whether he is aware of the fact that he is not in a position to take part in the proceedings of the Court of Justice of the European Communities and of the Court of Justice of the European Communities and of the Court of Justice of the European Communities in the proceedings of the Court of Justice of the European Communities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u80	No, of course it's about the responsibilities. The guarantee function is part of that. It concerns all responsibilities between countries and the Kingdom. I know what the situation is like in the Kingdom, so I cannot ask the governments in advance to come up with a common success story. However, we can ask governments to put these responsibilities together and see how these responsibilities can be fulfilled in such a way that disputes can be avoided as much as possible in the future. That is more than an effort obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u81	I understand what Mr Van Raak is saying, but I think I understood it very well in the first period. When it comes to discussing responsibilities and the countries do not fulfil certain responsibilities that have been assigned to them under the Staff Regulations, Article 43 - the guarantee function - is very soon to come out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u82	Nor does it say in the motion that the guarantee function is excluded from that consultation. That's part of it, of course. But it's not just about the warranty function.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u83	I'm gonna try one more time anyway. The reason I am trying to frame it somewhat is that it becomes very broad and large when it comes to all the responsibilities, while in daily practice, even in the debates that are held in this Chamber, it often comes back or comes together on the guarantee function when certain responsibilities are not or are partly fulfilled. Anyway, I will have to understand myself with the governments of the other countries, the Kingdom Government. I've already given the judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u84	Finally, Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u85	However, the text is very clear: 'to work together to define the responsibilities of the individual countries and of the Kingdom as a whole'. So, yeah, I don't think there's that much there...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u86	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u87	I've always learned: the shorter the motions, the more powerful they are. In this respect, Mr Van Raak and his co-signators have achieved an achievement. I must say that the mission to me and to others is no less.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u88	But we do wish you every success.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u89	Thank you. You're done, I see?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u90	I have finished the assessment of the amendments and the motions. I would once again like to thank all the Members and speakers who have spoken on this subject for their constructive attitude. I sincerely hope that this bill of law can count on broad support, so that we can take next steps within our Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u91	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-39.u92	Tonight we decide how to vote on this. I would like to thank the members, the Secretary of State, the special delegates, the authorised ministers and everyone who has supported them. I feel that we have suspended more than we have debated, but there is something that the Chamber and the people present can do with. I thank everyone.
