ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u1	The next item is the debate on the roll-out of 5G. I would like to welcome the Minister of Justice and Security, the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate and the Minister of Defence. I give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma, who speaks on behalf of D66, as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u2	Madam President. The Netherlands must be a digital frontrunner and therefore we must have 5G as soon as possible. Thanks to the high speeds and reliability of this network, self-driving cars are shown, surgeons can perform an operation on the other side of the world via robot control and we can use our agriculture much more efficiently. The downside of 5G is, of course, that our vulnerability is increasing and that we therefore need to have our security in order. In other words, we need to roll out 5G as quickly as safety permits. When it comes to security, we are in a split between the United States on the one hand, which is threatening an intelligence stop, and on the other hand, the economic opportunities and threats from China. That is why it is so important that the Netherlands and the European Union take their own position. First of all, a few comments on security measures against interference. The cabinet chooses to impose geographically-neutral conditions, just like Germany. I think this is a sensible way. This is also something that this Chamber asked for in a very large majority earlier this year. It is also good to see that the conditions as they are laid down have been increased. That does raise a general question, looking at these conditions. Does it mean that Huawei can compete for the 5G network? Does it mean that Huawei has a chance when this company competes? And is the package that the cabinet is now laying down sufficient for the United States to say: yes, we will continue to share information? Then a number of questions per measure taken by the cabinet. Measure 1 means that I am now paraphrasing the need for telecom providers to take additional security measures. That certainly seems wise. I ask the cabinet how this relates to the call made by the director of the AIVD, Mr Schoof, on 2 April last, who actually said: better...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u3	Half.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u4	... better halfway over the whole wandering. Thank you, Madam President, that was indeed the quote. He said that according to him, companies should see if they can remove existing Chinese equipment from their network. How does this relate to the measures taken? I'd like a response from the cabinet. Measure 2. The cabinet places extra high demands on service and product providers in the critical parts of the telecom network. That also sounds sensible. I'll ask the cabinet what they're demanding. Germany has also put a number of requirements on the table, also publicly, but speaks of "trusted partners" as a condition for suppliers. That may seem to me an even more sensible line that the Netherlands should perhaps follow. I'd like a comment on that. Mr Schoof also said on 2 April that systems from countries that have an offensive cyber agenda against the Netherlands should not be used. The question also arises as to how this relates to the measures taken. One final question on the second measure. However, Telecom experts claim that it does not matter whether requirements are imposed on the core networks, because precisely the periphery of such a network would also entail risks. I ask the Secretary of State if this is why she is talking about "critical parts" instead of "core" versus "periphery." The third measure involves a structural process following the task force. I think this would be excellent to keep up with the threat. Then there is the issue of the Burum satellite ground station. In the RIP, it was previously concluded that 5G networks were not compatible with the satellite interception station without serious interference and that an international solution is necessary. I'm a little skeptical about the progress of that solution. It should have been there in March, but by now there is not much more than lyrics in which it is said that it will probably succeed. I ask the Secretary of State, and possibly also the Minister of Defence, if we can be informed about the current state of affairs. What guarantee is there that the people who live north of the Amsterdam-Zwolle line will also receive 5G? And what bridging measures, as mentioned in the letter, will the cabinet take if they fail? I also ask this because Germany is already going to roll out 5G; in June the auction was there. That too will be a nuisance, I suspect. How's the cabinet handling this nuisance? All the way to the end. Municipalities are a little worried about the groundwork for 5G. There is too little information about aerial installations and what they mean, for example, for the spatial design. How will the Secretary of State ensure that all concerned, including the municipalities, are well informed about the preparations for the roll-out of 5G?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u5	Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma. I now give the floor to Mr Weverling on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has been leading digital connectivity for years. Our high-quality digital infrastructure is indispensable in our current society. That's why we're about to start auctioning frequencies, so 5G can be rolled out in our country. I think it is important that we first consider the safety of our current digital infrastructure. Recently, we have seen how vulnerable we are as a country when our digital infrastructure is failing and the 112 platform is not accessible. As security is our top priority, the VVD filed a motion in November 2018 to investigate the dependence of foreign technology on our current telecom networks. One of the reasons for this was that the AIVD made clear in its annual report that China is engaged in espionage activities in the Netherlands. It's important that we have an eye for this. Technology can be used not only for espionage purposes, but also for sabotage, such as disrupting our drinking water supply or payment systems. The risk analysis we are asking for teaches us that we need to be on our guard and take action, as there are countries that have an offensive cyber program against Dutch interests, with the number of attacks increasing in recent years. Telecom service providers can be used as springboards. Does the government with the VVD believe that now and in the future the advice of the security services should be decisive in the development of our digital infrastructure? The Task Force proposes a number of measures that provide an adequate response to the threat. For example, telecom providers will be required to take additional security measures in their current network to be resilient. Furthermore, in the future, additional requirements will be imposed on service and product providers in the critical parts of the telecoms network. These are measures supported by the VVD. Do the telecom companies subscribe to this? What does this mean for them, also in view of the necessary investments? How do we avoid becoming dependent on a single provider of relevant services in the longer term, which would affect both safety and economic sustainability? I'd like a response from the cabinet. The cabinet also opts for a structural approach because there are continuous developments, both in terms of threat and in terms of technology. May I take this opportunity to point out that the current task force with the telecoms parties is becoming a structural cooperation? I would also like to comment on this. Mr. Chairman. Then the frequency auctions. The multi-band auction is scheduled for this year. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State for EZK if we're gonna make it. As far as the VVD is concerned, the proceeds of the various auctions should not be leading, but rather national security. Does the Cabinet endorse this? In the Frisian village of Burum there is an entire park with ground satellites. Some of them will have to be moved due to the roll-out of 5G. When does the cabinet expect to be able to clarify this relocation? Is it already known how much this is going to cost and how we are going to pay for this? Can this also be paid with the auction proceeds? The ground satellites that remain in Burum are used for essential communications services with ship and aviation. Can the cabinet promise that this can continue undisturbed passage? Mr. Chairman. Despite the fact that the EZK Secretary of State sent a very clear letter on possible health risks from 5G to the Chamber, I continue to receive a lot of reports from people who are concerned about possible risks and about the change in the physical environment through the placement of antennas. Can the Secretary of State indicate how it is going to ensure that everyone is properly informed about what the roll-out of 5G means for the physical environment and how health risks are taken into account? Then I'll finish. As far as the VVD is concerned, we are not there with a legislative change, a frequency auction and a structural cooperation with the telecom providers. Is the Cabinet prepared to consider a future vision of our digital infrastructure? In such a vision, questions such as: how do we ensure sufficient European technological companies that are competitive and innovative enough to provide the Netherlands and Europe with the right techniques? Who are our partners? And in what way can the cabinet contribute to investment security for telecom companies, despite the changing and tightening security requirements? These are just a few questions that we would like answered in such a vision of the future, so that the Netherlands can remain safe in the future. I'd like to hear what the Cabinet thinks about setting up such a vision for the future. So far, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u7	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Bromet, on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u8	Mr. Chairman. Today, GroenLinks addresses three topics: radiation, Burum and safety. I will start with radiation, because, like colleagues, we get a lot of reports from people who are afraid of this. Since 2006, the government has spent 16.6 million on research into electromagnetic fields. Agency Telecom will carry out measurements in the test of 5G antennas in the public environment, the Minister writes. When and where are these measurements going to take place, my question is: We already have a suggestion. I talked to an alderman from Eindhoven about this. 5G is already going to be tested there and TU Eindhoven might play a role in this. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Dan Burum. In order to roll out a nationwide coverage 5G network, the satellite reception station in the Frisian Burum must be moved. The security services expressed their concerns about this situation through the media in December. That's quite unique, because they usually keep their concerns and criticism in chambers. Since then, we have been told by the cabinet that a solution is being worked out. Today we would like to have a more concrete answer from the cabinet to the question of what is going on with the search for alternatives to the satellite station. Will it be possible to achieve an alternative location before September 2020? When will the Chamber be informed about the different options on the table? For example, should a bilateral agreement be concluded with the country where the successor of Burum is placed, and how is it ensured that the Intelligence and Security Services Act is complied with in another country? In short, I have many questions and I would like an answer to them. Then Huawei and safety. I had a conversation this morning with the management of Huawei, a company with enormous qualities when it comes to technology and favourable pricing. But it is also a Chinese company, and GroenLinks therefore looks at the expansion of that company with a different perspective. China, a country that is not a rule of law, a country that can send with business anytime it pleases. We still have no clarity about 5G suppliers, which is urgently needed. Polderen is a beautiful tradition, but a clear choice is required here. The AIVD had already made it: no Chinese equipment in the 5G network. What did the Cabinet do with that advice? The letter outlines enormous risks: the loss of society. Is it wise to extract vital digital infrastructure from countries that have offensive cyber programs against Dutch interests? Is there a difference with the Russian company Kaspersky, for example? Or look at C2000. Before the renewal, awarded to a Chinese company, started well, Minister Grapperhaus on AIVD advice is already working on the replacement path, to minimise the dependence of countries with offensive cyber programs against the Netherlands. What's the difference with 5G? Mr. Chairman. It seems that economic interests are given blind priority here, and we may regret that later. Please respond to these points. Finally, what is the government going to do to ensure that European companies come along with technological developments in the field of telecommunications, so that we can also opt for European providers in future with successors of 5G?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u9	Mr Sjoerdsma has a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u10	I'm a little confused right now. Now GroenLinks seems to be again for the complete exclusion of Huawei from the Dutch systems. Earlier, your party supported Mr Weverling's and I's motion, which said that safety requirements in critical infrastructure, such as 5G, should be tightened so as to minimise unsafe foreign influences. You did not table your motion to exclude Huawei at that time, and you did not do so at that time. With this you seemed to have made a turn, but now you turn back to the repel of Huawei. What exactly is the position of GroenLinks?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u11	We are very concerned, also because the security services have issued warnings about this. We would rather be careful, according to the precautionary principle, than rush and already think: we can protect it ourselves. We don't know what we don't know. So we don't know if we can protect it either. That is a real dilemma that we are struggling with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u12	Don't get me wrong. My party also sees the threat, especially from countries with an offensive cyber agenda against the Netherlands. We also need to deal with this in a sensible way. It just seemed as if GroenLinks had joined this cabinet policy by saying: tighten up these conditions and do now like Germany. That was the motion by Mr Weverling and myself, which you also supported. But I understand that you have now returned to that other position, where you say: it simply needs to be kept out of the way. I therefore ask you: should it be excluded from the entire network as far as you are concerned? And should it also be removed from all existing networks? It's important to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u13	Right now, we're on that trail. I think we have understood the motion differently and we have therefore voted in favour. But then I would have to look at the precise text. But I do not feel that we have changed our position.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u14	Thank you, Mrs Bromet. I now give the floor to Mr Moorlag on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There are three points I would like to raise: the auctioning of frequencies, the safety of networks, nuclear systems and networks, and the continuing concern of people about electromagnetic radiation. When it comes to auctioning frequencies, I say again that it must be an auction that is not aimed at maximizing yields. It's not about maxing out the treasury. That shouldn't be the purpose of the auction. Maximum yield is not a major issue for the PvdA. The key issue is that real value is created for society. Value in the form of high quality, affordable products and services for customers. In addition, a quick and complete roll-out of 5G, so that the countryside does not lag behind. I also call for attention to be paid to sustainability and energy consumption. Data traffic is increasingly a giant energy slurper. My question to the Secretary of State is whether she is prepared to give these social interests an explicit place in the conditions of auction. Is she prepared to resist any pressure from the Ministry of Finance? Then I come to the security interests and the protection of our mobile networks. The PvdA follows the line set out by the government in the letter of 1 July. In order to minimise the risks of espionage and infiltration into and disruption of vital infrastructure, the precautionary principle should be guiding. We need to minimize the risks as much as possible. The Co-operation and Co-ordination at European level is welcomed by the PvdA. Data traffic and data systems are cross-border. What is a disturbing element is the fact that there is a trade war between China and the United States. I ask the government to allow only the security interests to lead the decision-making process. Any appearance that the Netherlands is a pawn in the US-China trade war must be avoided. Will the rulers undertake to do so? Mr. Chairman. The PvdA therefore agrees with the proposed approach to risks in mobile networks. But the question is what about the fixed networks. We have concerns about the part of the data traffic that doesn't run through radio frequencies, but through glass and copper. What about the protection of those systems? Isn't that where we're at security risk? Is there no risk of infiltration and disruption via these networks? Shouldn't we better protect the core of the fixed networks? There's no watertight shot between the fixed and the mobile networks, is there? How do the rulers look at this? Do they intend to pay attention to this and take protective measures? If so, which one and how? Then there are the health risks of electromagnetic radiation. Many people fear harmful and harmful effects of radiation. We talked about that before. The e-mails continue to flow in. Based on the data from the Health Council and the RIVM, we have to assume that the harmful effects are not there or only to a very limited extent. But that's called into question by a lot of people. I distance myself from those who create conspiracy theories or examine them in very unpleasant terms and disqualify researchers, but there must be room for scientific doubt. There has to be scientific discussion. Nothing's a hundred percent sure. For decades, it was assumed that gas extraction could not cause an earthquake with safety risks, until the opposite turned out to be true. The PvdA proposes to set up a process where space is found for scientific joint factfinding and joint factchecking. This has also been done in assessing the safety risks of CO2 storage in empty gas fields. The industrial, nature and environmental organisations, which were opposed to each other, have taken this step together. Together they have investigated the facts and the usefulness and necessity of CO2 capture and storage. Together they have visualized the facts and that has reduced polarization. My question is whether the Secretary of State is prepared to facilitate such a process. Does she want to offer that space and would she like to make a proposal to the Chamber on this matter? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u16	Thank you, Mr Moorlag. I now give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr President, I would like to express my disappointment at the absence of Minister Blok.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u18	Minister Blok for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u19	Mr. Chairman. For the CDA, the key question is: who is going to build 5G, manage it and under what conditions? Telecommunications and therefore 5G are essential for our vital infrastructure and for national security. Good thing the Cabinet shares the CDA's concerns and that there is now a risk analysis. This was carried out by a task force with the cooperation of the three major Dutch telecom providers. Do we understand that their suppliers are not involved in this? Following the risk analysis, this year's cabinet comes up with stricter security and integrity requirements, as I requested in an earlier motion. The CDA considers it important that we make demands not only on the 5G equipment and systems, but also on shareholders, financiers and directors of the companies. We are considering a motion on this matter. According to the CDA, specific regions with an increased security risk should also be required, such as ministries, greenports, ports and brainports. I would like a response and we are considering a motion for a resolution on this point as well. Mr. Chairman. As a government, we are responsible for a secure 5G network. However, users also make themselves vulnerable, for example by downloading an app. The CDA wants to raise awareness of this in people. What does the government think about this? We received the letter on 5G and health. However, the CDA still receives messages from people who indicate to experience health complaints through electromagnetic fields and radiation. Can the government put this item on the European agenda? We are also considering a motion on this. These are potentially our three motions. In an earlier debate, the CDA made a request regarding the financing of the EMV & Health Knowledge Platform. How's that going? Does the Cabinet agree with the CDA that it would be better for independence if only the government were to finance this platform? Mr. Chairman. I once learned the 5 P's: "clean planning prevent poor performance," i.e. "appropriate planning is prevention against poor performance." In April, the Telecom Agency warned that municipalities were not well prepared for the arrival of 5G. Is that right? What's the Cabinet gonna do about this? Previously, the CDA asked to clarify, for the auction of the multi-bands, the transfer of the satellite ground station in Burum and the consequences for Inmarsat, the emergency centre for ships. What's the status? In 2020 is the next auction of telecom frequencies. The CDA wants a transparent auction design and no strategic bidding behavior. We understand that there is an "in-use" obligation and that there are cover requirements, but we also hear from the field that these requirements are not real. I'd like a response from the cabinet. Safety and investments in fiber optics are considered by the CDA to be more important than high yields. Does the Cabinet agree with us? At the moment only KPN and Vodafone Ziggo are regulated. The CDA advocates a level playing field for all players. Is the cabinet willing to look into this? Mr. Chairman. Finally. The CDA wants all vital infrastructures to be protected, including the water supply network, the energy network, agricultural land, bridges and brainports. Minister Van der Steur had already made a list in 2015. In three plenary debates, in June 2017, April 2018 and April 2019, I asked how far the government is. There is still no legislation in any area. How much longer is this gonna take? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u20	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Berg. I now give the floor to Mr Futselaar on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I do not think that anyone who works daily on the Lower House network does not occasionally have wishful thinking about faster networks. 5G offers potentially faster networks and is therefore something we should look forward to in general. But there are risks, and I must say that it does not happen very often that the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and the SP are on the same page, but today I have to conclude a little bit. In the media and in debates it has been claimed for months that Huawei equipment is a guarantee for backdoors of the Chinese government, so Beijing can watch. However, for example, the International Affairs Advisory Council notes that although there is a legal basis on which Chinese companies can be forced to act in China's strategic interest, there is no reason to believe that this is already happening. The strategy sent by the Secretary of State to the Chamber is the right approach in our view: to continue trading with China, but to build guarantees in places where that is critical. Let us not forget that our own ally, the United States, also has a legal basis that allows us to spy on anyone who is not an American citizen. We must continue to look at the matter soberly and, as everyone in this debate always says, are not naive. As far as we are concerned, this also applies to the satellite interception in Burum. It is precisely in a world where we should not be naive that we must ensure that things such as interception remain possible. We need to be able to ward off threats from the outside, but on the other hand, we also need to be able to clarify them in good time. Not even so much about where, but about when Burum could move. That is necessary, so that we are sure that the northern part of the Netherlands can actually make use of 5G, as well as the nicest part of the Netherlands. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The opinion of the AIV was comprehensive on the attitude we should adopt towards China. The House is going to debate this further, but I would like to make one point: the dependence of one party. There are actually only four electronics manufacturers in the world that supply the servers and switchers that can provide 5G, and Huawei is currently the cheapest and reportedly the best. This advantage is likely to have been gained by the company thanks, among other things, to state aid from the Chinese government. This dependence is dangerous in general terms and it also shows that we should perhaps be a little less naive in the area of industrial policy. I would like to say that if the rest of the world does not comply with State aid and WTO commitments, then the Netherlands and the European Union may also have to be a little less naive. Mr. Chairman. This is about who's going to deliver equipment for 5G, but the matter of people's safety is another. Mrs Bromet has already asked about the health problem in a previous consultation and the Secretary of State has replied on the current state of science. We know the Health Note. Many people are concerned about the effects of radiation from 5G. I would like to say, not only as spokesman for Economic Affairs, but also as spokesman for Science, that I do not see any serious scientific evidence to justify that concern. But that does not mean that these people's complaints are not real, and it does not mean that these people should not be heard in any way. In itself, the Knowledge Platform ElectroMagnetic Fields is a logical body, but we notice that, when it comes to information, the Knowledge Platform ElectroMagnetic Fields is indirectly financed by telecom operators, through a foundation though. I believe that operators contribute in one way or another, but it would be more logical to organise this in a more independent way. This also gives the platform a more independent status. For example, if we use a small part of the proceeds from the auction to maintain that platform, then those telecom operators are out. Then an interested party is out and we avoid the appearance of conflict of interest. Then such a platform with much more authority can engage in conversation with people and ensure that fact and fiction remain separate in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u22	Thank you, Mr. Fuzzler. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u23	Mr. Chairman. Media regularly give the impression that the love between the SGP and the Christian Union is a bit lost, but I like to underline the opposite today, and that's why I start... What do you say, Minister? Mr President, the Minister says something to me from Box K. Oh, you can't? No? Well, then we'll do it afterwards. I'm moving on, because my time is ticking, of course. I would like to start with a reference to the former senator of the Christian Union Egbert Schuurman, someone who inspired me during my studies. He warned in his books of technicianism, of the absolute power of technology and science driven by a human salvation expectation, with the downside being that ethics must fall apart. That feeling also creeps me a little bit at 5G. Let us stay on the ground and look at the opportunities, but also look at the downside of 5G for health and safety. According to the cabinet, the radiation remains within the standards. Negative effects on health would not have been sufficiently proven. At the same time, there are serious signs that it can cause problems and we must not ignore this. I read an article in the medical journal The Lancet which clearly states that there are many studies with negative effects. Therefore, the SGP calls for caution. I would first like to see more insight into the contribution of 5G to the radiation level when applied on a small scale and when rolled out on a large scale. What makes 5G different from 3G and 4G and what does that mean for the extent to which health effects may occur? If I enter on the Health Board website "5G" as a keyword, get zero, really zero, relevant results and RIVM also hardly mentions anything about 5G. The SGP therefore advocates good research by RIVM and the Health Council into the possible consequences of implementation of 5G and those gaps in existing research. Mr. Chairman. Then cyber security. 5G is a challenge for our safety. The National Counter-Terrorism Coordinator warns of disruption due to increasing dependence on digital systems and the vulnerability to cyber attacks and 5G makes the attack area even bigger. Although users can encrypt data much better with fewer opportunities for criminals, it is much more difficult at 5G to track down those criminals. Users can no longer be easily identified and the enhanced privacy rules make it difficult for security services to do their job anyway. My question is how the cabinet handles this. The cabinet wants to impose extra high demands on suppliers for the critical parts of the telecom network. Fine, but the big question is how far the cabinet wants to go. KPN has now decided, if I am correct, that the Chinese company Huawei will not be involved in the construction of the core of the network, but will be involved in the construction of the rest around it. Experts indicate that this makes no sense, because a lot of data processing happens at 5G in those network borders. The SGP therefore calls for a complete exclusion of Chinese companies such as Huawei. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the Burum ground satellite station. The ground satellite of our intelligence services should move abroad to roll out 5G in the North. What does that mean for the reliability and geopolitical position of the Netherlands? The SGP clearly does not want irreversible steps until it is clear that we are not turning this in. Finally, the VNG. The cabinet and market parties radiate that municipalities have to move along with the roll-out of 5G, but that is not so easy in practice and can also cause resistance to many citizens. We therefore say: ensure that the municipalities are properly involved in this roll-out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u24	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. Finally, I would like to give Mr Graus on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u25	Thank you, Madam President. The cheapest does not have to be the best and safest, and I fear that this will be the case again. The PVV has so far advocated the roll-out of 5G under some conditions. From the very beginning we have always been very consistent and consistent in this regard, we have expressed our concerns about cooperation with foreign companies at all. We've said that before. When it comes to state security and privacy of our citizens, we must try as much as possible to regulate all this ourselves, and if it is not possible, they must be reliable partners. Even before there was a big fuss about cooperation with the Chinese multinational Huawei, our group raised concerns about privacy and state security. We also made the condition that there would be no danger to human and animal health. I'd like to say a few words about that. For the long-term effects, we must await epidemiological and, where possible, oncological studies in relation to the PVV. That should actually happen. I know that terrible animal experiments have been carried out in the past at 3G and 4G. I strongly oppose that. For example, they're going to tie a monkey's phone calls to his head, while a monkey isn't representative of man at all. So it turns out. That is why we are going to stop animal testing in the Netherlands and reduce it as much as possible. We go as far as possible to animal testing-free innovations, where I myself am the great director behind. Because animals are not representative at all. So let's be very clear that I'm not asking for animal experiments. No animal testing, because it must all be representative of man. No tests on defenseless animals, which are not representative. As long as harmful effects on humans and animals cannot be demonstrated, the PVV could agree to roll-out. Mr Bromet also said that 16.6 million was spent on investigations into electromagnetic fields. Can 5G cause increased or wrong cell division? And if not, what's the difference with 3G and 4G? We do not want any health risks to be taken at all. There must be no health effects. Now the Secretary of State wrote in a letter we received that the Health Council has also established that as long as you remain below established standards, there are no health effects. And Professor Hans Kromhout of Utrecht University is investigating the long-term effects of mobile radiation on humans. At the moment, he cannot guarantee that the radiation from mobile telephony is dangerous, nor can he guarantee that it is safe. Kromhout advises to do more research. That is why I am holding a motion and will support various motions by my colleague from the CDA. We really want those health effects to be investigated. And that money certainly also for the oncological effects, if possible and necessary. According to Professor Kromhout, the roll-out of 5G does not need to be stopped. I also like to get a reaction to that. Let's make it clear that Huawei is a no-go. That is simply not going to happen, and we are happy to get a commitment on that. I hope, moreover, that there is a majority in the Chamber for that too, because only you are so lonely and you can start so little. I therefore hope that several parties will support this, because state security must never be at stake. Never! And it has already been said that vital parts must be protected. Fixed and mobile networks must be protected. It is quite possible that vital parts can be hit in their hearts instantly. That must never happen. In addition, people's privacy must be guaranteed. Madam President, I await the answer. So I'd like to get the commitment as far as Huawei is concerned. Then I may not have to make a motion on that. And I also like to be promised that these tests will be carried out outside of animal testing. It is therefore epidemiological and oncological research. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u26	Thank you, Mr. Graus. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u27	I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u28	Mr. Chairman. I had an introductory text, but the good news is that that introductory text immediately goes into answering my first question, a question from Mr Weverling. We live in a time of incredibly fast technology. I think it is a pleasure that the same applies to our deadlines. Mr Weverling asked a very fair question about the task force. That is indeed a structural partnership. This is also necessary because there are continuous developments, not only in technology, but also in the threat picture. The developments are going very fast. We need to be able to monitor the technical operation and possible threats on an ongoing basis. That's a structural process. The first steps are taken. Mrs Van den Berg asked how the three telecom providers were involved in the development of the risk analysis. The task force carried out the risk analysis on the vulnerability of telecommunications networks to abuse via suppliers with the help of those three. So they've been involved in the creation. The suppliers were also questioned as input for the process. Of course, this involvement is such that its own critical test of the departments involved in the task force will ultimately remain at the forefront.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u29	Based on the information we have had from the market, we understand that the three telecom providers have had a lot of conversations, but that the four suppliers are talking about Nokia, Ericsson and Huawei; ZTE is less applicable here in any case have not had a conversation with the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u30	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u31	Then I am very curious about the reason. It is precisely because there is a discussion about this that I can imagine that a discussion would have been part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u32	At least that wasn't the choice. It is precisely the expertise available in the departments in the services that has been chosen. For the risk analysis, we talked to the providers as the final end-parts, so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u33	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u34	Mr. Chairman. Mr Sjoerdsma asked which demands are made in relation to the German approach. As I said, the task force carried out a risk analysis. On this basis, additional measures are being taken to make the current network more resilient. Telecom providers are now required to take additional security measures and to impose extra high requirements on service and product providers. That is a structural approach. I would like to say the following, though a bit like a footnote to the answer to that question. Indeed, the cabinet is also in favour of EU cooperation. The awareness of software updates needs to be raised. Mrs Van den Berg asks about that. So we're into more awareness. That's part of my cybersecurity approach, which you received a few weeks ago. This year we will also have a government campaign Alert Online, to raise that awareness. I come to the measures. Mr Moorlag asked about the protection of the fixed network. He called attention to the protection measures. This structural approach will ensure that future telecom networks are safe as well. We have therefore said that we really want additional security measures, including on the existing whole, to which the fixed networks belong. Mr Sjoerdsma asked the question...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u35	I asked the question a little bit more. A very comprehensive approach to mobile networks has now been adopted. There's a whole task force set up for it. I said in my contribution that there is no watertight shot between mobile and fixed. Can I assume that there will also be a similar intensive approach for fixed networks, not only for future networks, but also for networks that are already operating at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u36	That's right. That was even explicitly decided in my reply. I don't know if you can say that something is explicitly contained in it, but I really did say that explicitly, I thought. Mr. Chairman. Mr Sjoerdsma asked about this term "critical parts." The risk analysis indicates: taking additional measures to make the current telecom network more resilient to threats. Higher additional requirements are imposed on service and product providers in those critical parts indeed. It is not yet clear how these networks will look. The approach therefore looks at critical elements and they are determined on the basis of interests to be protected, regardless of whether they are in the core or elsewhere, and that is an answer to its point about core and periphery. Then there was Mr Sjoerdsma's question about how additional security measures of the cabinet relate to that statement by the AIVD. The measures identified by the Task Force in its risk analysis are endorsed by all parties and thus also by the AIVD, which is a member of that Task Force. In the context of national security, you have been informed confidentially about the precise measures, and I am not going to go into that further. This will be submitted to your Chamber for decision-making in the context of the AMvB. This structural approach will also ensure the safety of future telecommunications networks. The AIVD is therefore expressly involved in this. Mr Weverling asked about the telecom companies, the telcos. They participated in the task force's investigation and provided access to their networks. They have also indicated what measures they are taking to ensure safety. They are also involved in the structural approach. Mrs Bromet also spoke about the opinion that was sent to me in February this year, in which the AIVD addressed the threat and the importance of 5G technology. That letter was taken and taken into account in the task force's advice. The AIVD, as a member of the Task Force, endorses the proposed approach. Mr President, I shall proceed quickly. There was another question from Mr Sjoerdsma about European or international. Is the package sufficient for the US to continue sharing intelligence? The Cabinet is confident that a robust and country-neutral approach will be put in place to ensure the security of telecom networks and the related security interests of allies and partners in NATO and EU. Mr Stoffer also asked about the dependence of the digital systems. 5G makes the attack area bigger, he says, and it's harder to track down criminals. How do we deal with that? The potential impact of 5G technology in the field of intelligence and detection is known. It is evidently important for national security that the intelligence and investigation services can continue to carry on their work under the law. Those parties are therefore included in the task force as a whole. Mr. President, I'm almost there. I should like to refer to Mrs van den Berg, who spoke about these vital sectors. The risk analysis carried out for 5G looks at potential misuse of systems used by telecom providers. De Wozt, whose parliamentary treatment has yet to begin, sees unwanted control over companies in the telecoms sector, for example in the event of an undesirable acquisition of the Dutch telecom-arbiter. In my letter on combating state threats of April this year, I indicated the results of the analyses carried out on the risks to national security in vital sectors as a result of unwanted control, as announced in the government agreement. Those are the so-called ex-ante analyses. The main conclusions of the analyses are that virtually all vital sectors are currently protected from undue influence as a result of the change of control. The telecommunications analysis shows that unaddressed risks exist in the telecommunications sector in the event of a change of control, and therefore the cabinet has already indicated that it is going to take priority action. And that's why the Wozt bill was submitted to your Chamber. In carrying out the other analyses, it also emerged that vital services and processes are highly dependent on supplying companies, which therefore play an important role and may also be considered vital. That is why the cabinet has said that national security risks may also arise there. So, in my letter on combating state threats in April, we indicated that we are taking action in this regard. As you have read, one of these is the investment test on national security risks in takeovers and investments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u37	I'd like to check if we're talking about the same thing right now. It is clear: for telecommunications we have the Act of Unwanted Control telecommunications. So that's what we're working on. But I'm talking about all those other sectors. Do I understand correctly that the Minister says that in his April letter it was concluded that control in all those other sectors is in order and that that is not a danger? My question is then: how do we deal with them when they are taken over tomorrow? I understand that the only other sector which has been dealt with in depth concerns the whole water supply system. Minister Van Nieuwenhuizen did an investigation himself, and we didn't get much happier with those conclusions. I would like to make that quite clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u38	I indicated in the April letter that the ex-ante analyses led to such protection against unwanted influence as a result of a change of control in almost all but not all vital sectors. And I indicated in that letter that, where this is not the case, a number of measures are being taken, including the investment test, which we discussed earlier. And it fits within a broader framework of strengthened laws and regulations, where that test should really be a last resort.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u39	I also said it in my contribution: Minister Van der Steur made an overview of this in 2015. So I have to conclude that there are now sectors in which control may be regulated, but there are still sectors that are vulnerable. I am also thinking of the China strategy of the cabinet. It states, for example, that the wisdom of the universities themselves is left to decide which students do which courses of study, so that a lot of knowledge and technology can leak out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u40	Then we'll go from control to other subjects. First of all, in my cybersecurity letter, the accompanying letter to the Cybersecurity image, I indicated that I really think that we really need to take further steps on the issue of resilience, and then I'm talking more about the systems in the vital infrastructure. I would like to take on the role of playing a firm and exciting role in this. But for that I refer to that letter, which is not so much about today. Another point is that, of course, we see that there are vital infrastructures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u41	I had asked what the cabinet had done with the advice of the AIVD not to use Chinese equipment in the 5G network. Mr Grapperhaus says:...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u42	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u43	... we included it in that letter and the AIVD now supports the measures. But I had asked a lot of other questions, and that wasn't for nothing. I had asked questions about the comparison with C2000, with Kaspersky, and that's...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u44	That's what the Minister's coming back to?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u45	Yeah, I was just about to say something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u46	Oh, I thought you were done. But maybe I'll finish my question then. I am concerned that I want to have more insight into the balance that the cabinet has made, because it is not clear enough for me now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u47	Mrs Bromet is asking for consideration. Let me see if I understand the question. We have made it very clear in the letter that we are making it clear to the telecom providers that additional security measures must be visible in the systems, and that we will later come up with extra high requirements for the critical parts at the AMVB. That is the point I have answered Mr Sjoerdsma. It is clear that there is a very strict increase in requirements. The trade-off is so that I come to Kaspersky and C2000 too that a strict test must indeed be applied. That follows from the previous letters I sent about state-of-the-art threats and how we deal with them. So that is decided in the letter that your Chamber received. Then I come to the question of whether there is a difference between Kaspersky and C2000. Yes, the Kaspersky Antivirus software is based on the threat posed by one specific state actor, a threat which in fact became apparent in the Netherlands with the Russian espionage attempt at the OPCW. I refer you to the letter I sent to you at the end of May 2018, but also to the letter my colleague from the Defence Department sent on the issue of OPCW. Mr. Chairman. C2000 and 5G are hard to compare. C2000 is a very specific service, namely communication for emergency services with specific contracting parties, while 5G is a generic basic infrastructure for a wide range of public and private services, for which multiple providers are eligible. That really requires a completely different approach. That is why a country-neutral approach has been adopted, addressing technical vulnerabilities and based on objective criteria, as I announced in the letter. Excuse me, I say it wrong: not me, but we, Mr Keijzer and I, announced it in our letter. A task force has carried out a risk analysis. On this basis, the additional measure was announced. Then I come back with the story: there are also the services, like the AIVD and the STUDY, but also the NCTV was leading in the same way. Mr. Chairman. In reply to the last question by Mr Sjoerdsma on the Chinese company Huawei. We still differ on the exact verdict. It is not the case that products and services coming from a specific country by definition entail national security risks. Whether products and services pose a potential risk depends on many factors. This must therefore always be seen on a case-by-case basis. In addition, I will mention the Kaspersky criteria, which must be taken into account: is there a national security risk when used, and if so, are there any measures to make that risk manageable? If management measures are not possible, it may be decided not to use the products and services in question. I am, of course, not going to speculate about future measures here, given both national security interests and the interests of business. Each supplier must meet the extra high requirements imposed on suppliers on the critical parts that I mentioned in my letter. Finally. Parties which pose a risk to the security of the State or public policy may be excluded from the auctioning of frequencies under Article 3.18 Telecommunications Act. Mr. Chairman. This was my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u48	I have one more question. Kasperksy is a state-of-the-art action, says Mr Grapperhaus.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u49	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u50	Yes, the Minister, excuse me. That is not the case with Huawei. My question to Mr Grapperhaus... Sorry, Minister Grapperhaus. Sorry, Mr. Chairman, I'm a little tired now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u51	Yes, I understand that very well. That goes for all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u52	Is that Chinese company Huawei just like anyone else? Does the Minister look at this in the same way, or does the Minister say the same thing as GroenLinks? We say that the Chinese authorities may not be involved at this time, but they can have access to Huawei's operations at any time they wish, because it is not a rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u53	The decision we made last year, in May 2018, on the Kaspersky Antivirus software was exactly along the lines of the criteria I mentioned in the accountability letter. It clearly, in all respects, met the criteria to decide that we no longer wanted to work with that antivirus software that goes deep into our systems. The company that supplies this software is based in a country which at that time was clearly known as a state actor, who also really fought against Dutch interests. That was the situation there. That is exactly what I explained at the time. Then you need to step in and say, "We're not gonna do that."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u54	I don't feel like I'm getting an answer to my question because I've asked about the future actions of the Chinese government through the Huawei company.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u55	Then I come back to the point I said: we have a country-neutral starting point, but we are making very strict, high demands on the critical parts. Apart from that, we are taking additional measures for the existing cases. This reflects the core point of departure as indicated in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u56	GroenLinks doesn't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u57	I know this is my last interruption, at least the last two.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u58	You guys are so neat, so fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u59	I'd like to ask the Minister about this. I had indicated in my contribution that the CDA would like to have made demands on companies, but also on directors and, for example, financiers. So, if a company borrows debt from a bank, it shouldn't just happen from any bank in any country. Nor should everyone be appointed as directors from all over the world, both the management board and the supervisory board. I would like a reflection from the Minister on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u60	The letter that I sent in April about the state actors and how to deal with them, from a to h, I do it out of my mind, so it may have been the letter i or j, a very large number of different instruments that you can deal with that kind of situations of possible interference by state actors. One of these is the investment test already mentioned. It has also been worked out in a number of points. Of course, you can also look at the ownership relationships and the other aspects that play. They should be put in one of those tests.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u61	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It would be my honour to not begin today to indicate that research has shown that the Netherlands still has very high-quality mobile networks at present. We are therefore among the absolute top of the world. In the Digital Economy and Society Index we are in third place. That is a good thing, because connectivity has gradually become a basic need for people and essential for a competitive economy. This underlines the importance of the actions you have found in the Digital Connectivity Action Plan and the Note mobile communications I have sent to the Chamber. It contains the conditions that we will use in the design of the auction scheme that we intend to consult after the summer, in September or October. In doing so, we want to achieve an efficient distribution of the spectrum, a realistic yield and a simple, transparent model, with freedom of choice for the participants in the auction to ensure that there are as many frequencies as possible always and everywhere available to meet a wide variety of questions. What's next with the 5G? Sometimes I feel like people think that 5G is already available to everyone on your phone today. This isn't true. Sometimes that technique is already there, but there is also a lot of work being done on these techniques to make even more beautiful things possible. What are you thinking about, for example? Sometimes things can already be done, such as in smarter agriculture or care, so that when someone is on the move in an ambulance, a specialist can already be contacted to see what is going on and what someone needs. Smarter, sustainable, safer and cheaper production processes in factories, for example. Finally, 5G can make the mobile internet even faster. Someone asked what the difference is between all these techniques: 3G, 4G, 5G. 5G allows the internet to go even faster and even more reliable than it already is. I heard Mr Futselaar say that sometimes there are systems that you wonder how long it will take before all these new techniques arrive. So that's what we're working on. In the Note mobile communications, therefore, the policy is that in the coming years we are going to conduct the different frequencies that will be available over the next five to ten years. This concerns newly designated frequencies, such as the 700 MHz and 1400 MHz bands and the 3.5 GHz bands. However, it is also about frequencies that have already been issued and whose licences are due to expire: the 2100 MHz. I have just indicated what we want to achieve: high-quality mobile services that can meet demand. Some of you have asked me questions about local policy. Local authorities obviously play a very important role in setting the right framework conditions for achieving this high-quality digital infrastructure. The Digital Connectivity Action Plan includes several actions that have already been implemented or are in progress. Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Stoffer asked me whether municipalities are well prepared, what is already happening in this area and what else might be possible. The Charter 5G has been signed by several parties, such as the Ministry, the Association of Dutch Municipalities, telecom parties and knowledge institutions. It is agreed to work together in the rollout of 5G. We do research with the VNG on the effects of the local antenna and licensing policy on the realisation of 5G. It is, of course, important that it is aligned in as many places as possible to prevent the wheel from being reinvented each time. Conversation tables with municipalities have also been set up on digital connectivity to ensure that the roll-out takes place as soon as possible. There is a site that has been updated: Verenigingsnelinternet.nl. There, municipalities can get information to be well prepared, such as handouts and good practices. Then, of course, information on health questions will also be provided. I would like to go into that in detail tonight. I understand that there is a lot of interest in this subject in the public gallery. I have previously sent the Chamber a comprehensive letter on this subject, in which I explained what we are doing about it. That's the letter of April 16th. In general terms, international requirements have been imposed; if you stick to them, you can assume that there is sufficient security. What are these demands based on? These are based on multi-annual studies on the effects of electromagnetic fields. The ZonMw research programme EMV focuses on four topics: the biological interaction between exposure to EMV and the human body, epidemiological research into the relationship between exposure and the occurrence of health effects, perceived risks of EMV and technological aspects of EMV. One of the studies was extended to 2023. This is a very large, European, cohort study in which several hundred thousand people are followed with the aim of: long-term health effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u63	Everyone has that letter, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u64	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I understand. I can, of course, be very brief and say that the letter has been sent and that it is finished, but a large number of Members of Parliament have asked me to do so. Well, then I think it's so neat to answer that. But if you say you don't have to...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u65	If everyone has that letter, and that is the case, then I assume that everyone has studied that letter well. But there have been specific questions, and I would like answers to them. Mr Weverling wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u66	I think the letter is very clear, but it still lacks proper information. There are many feelings of unrest among many people in the country. So can there be a little more information?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u67	The last sentence I would like to say on this is that the Health Council concludes that there is no proven link to the long-term and frequent use of the mobile phone. What information is given on this subject? You can find all this information on the site of the Health Council and the site of ZonMw. On the website of the Antennebureau you can find that measurements are made. Everywhere in the country is measured regularly, both for 3G, 4G and 5G, if used. Each time it is established that it is measured ten times below the established international standards. The people who know about it say that there are no health effects if international standards are respected. We are tenfold below these international standards. Together with municipalities, we ensure that this information becomes available there, so that people know it. Mrs. Van den Berg is now standing. It has asked whether we can also draw attention to this at European level. Yeah, I absolutely want to do that. Research is difficult, also because the nature of complaints is different. The sources that are experienced are also different. However, it is good to see whether a good definition and a diagnosis method can be found. I would like to draw attention to this in a European context, as requested by a number of spokesmen, because I believe that is the place where you should do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u68	In my opinion, people are not only experiencing complaints in the Netherlands. The Secretary of State says she wants to work on a diagnosis. These people feel these phenomena, so it would be nice if not just information were provided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u69	Mr President, I quote from the letter you ask me not to do so, if you will allow me. Complaints that describe people can be absolutely real and serious. I'm not gonna take anything off of that. Only the cause of these complaints is not scientifically clear. The Knowledge Platform EMV also expects that further research will not clarify the cause in the short term. You have to start with a good understanding and think about what a diagnosis method might be. I would like to draw attention to this in a European context, to see if we could take a step in that direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u70	I also asked for specific attention to be paid to the veterinary part. The epidemiological study is aimed at humans; that is not veterinary. It's not called veterinary. I read the letter very well. I also asked to continue oncology research into elevated or wrong cell divisions that could possibly be caused by 5G, faster than by 3G and 4G. Let me give you an example, because that is important for the Secretary of State. Wind turbines at sea, for example, have an enormous burden on marine mammals. It affects people on land, but it also affects marine mammals very much. That has to be included in the 5G story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u71	I have just said that there is a large-scale research programme that focuses on biological interaction between exposure to electromagnetic fields and the human body. I also said that the Health Council concludes that there is no proven link to the long-term and frequent use of a mobile phone. At the end of the letter it says "that there is no proven link between long-term and frequent use of a mobile phone and the risk of developing tumors in the brain or head and neck area," however much I take people's complaints seriously. Because if you feel it, it exists. But it's incredibly complicated to objectify that and then determine where it comes from and what could be the solution. However, as I have just said, I am prepared to consider whether there is a need to change the sleeve at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u72	The veterinary investigation is not going to be carried out here. I very much appreciate what the Secretary of State says and what is happening, but I also really want the animals to be involved in the veterinary research and oncological research. We do not need to do this within Europe; we have the only and best veterinary specialist in this area, which is nowhere in Europe. We do not need to do that at all in a European context, but we can do that in our own toko. I'll file a motion. So I'm announcing a second term after all. Then I'll read the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u73	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u74	Mr Graus is now asking for something beyond my competence. I should coordinate this with the Minister of LNV. In doing so, I have answered all the questions asked about safety, apology about health.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u75	As far as the platform is concerned, I asked whether we should not see if we could finance it more independently. I don't know if that was another block, but I think it's kind of part of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u76	You would almost think that Mr Futselaar is in possession of psychic frequencies, because that is the next piece that lies in front of me. That question was put by Mrs Van den Berg and Mr Futselaar. I see absolute added value in the Knowledge Platform EMV to assess scientific publications. Until the end of the year, it shall be financed by interested parties. I am talking to interested parties about the continuation and decision-making on financing is the final part of it. But I feel absolutely what you mean: you must ensure that the idea cannot arise that the Ministry, which is responsible for auctioning frequencies, is also the Ministry responsible for financing them. I can very well imagine your independence in that. You shouldn't end up in the situation where the butcher approves his own meat.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u77	The same applies to the financial involvement of the telecom companies which, of course, have an interest in this. So you're gonna have to bail it out somehow. If the Secretary of State says he's talking about that, I'll leave it at that. We'll get to know how that goes. But let me say: independence from all those involved, otherwise we run that risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u78	I always say: absolute objectivity does not exist, of course. But I know Mr Futselaar well enough to know that he agrees with that. But I am looking for a financing model that you can reasonably say: this is going in the right way, as independently as possible. Then I come to the question by the CDA Group about Inmarsat. I have a meeting with Inmarsat next week. I will see in that conversation what could be a solution here. I cannot anticipate that at this time alone. Mr Sjoerdsma asked for interference from Germany. The auction is complete and the roll-out can start there. Am I in agreement? The German auction has indeed been completed. Four parties have acquired spectrum in the 3.5 GHz band and can start rolling out. There has been contact with the German government to find out how these parties are going to shape their deployment plans. We're holding the finger on the wrist. The German government understands the Dutch situation and has the same problem. This is the subject of mutual discussion. My colleague, the Minister of Defence, will address questions about Burum directly. What does the planning of the multi-band auction look like? Everything is aimed at doing that early next year. It was a late 2019 or early 2020, but it is now early 2020. My efforts are aimed at consulting the draft auction scheme in September or October. Of course there are already a number of choices in the Note mobile communication. The auction model is currently under investigation. I assure you, I can send the investigation to the Chamber. The proceeds of the various auctions should not in themselves be leading. I've just listed some of the starting points of the Note mobile communication. A real return is a guiding factor. Mr Moorlag asks me whether sustainability can be included in the auction conditions. Of course, I agree with the importance of sustainability and of seeing if you can decorate the equipment used as energy-efficiently as possible. Only, that in itself has no place in the conditions of auction. It has a place in general policy. You discussed this with each other at length last night. It also has industry's attention; of course it also has an incentive to ensure that you get to work as energy efficient as possible. I see Mr Moorlag standing, so I think I have a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u79	I do have a question. The answer shows that my wish is not fulfilled, although I think it is a very legitimate wish, also in the light of yesterday's debate. It does not seem to fit in with the conditions for auctioning and awarding, but they have been poured into concrete. The importance of energy saving and sustainability is only increasing. Surely it is quite possible to include in the conditions for auctioning and awarding the best available energy-efficient technology?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u80	Yeah, but what do you say when you make that remark? There you can talk endlessly about it, while I think it is important that you write down what you want more clearly in auction conditions. For example, you are talking about an commissioning obligation, a cover requirement and an auction model that leads to competition in the market after the auction. Those are terms you're gonna include. In addition, you have the policy that my ministry, Minister Wiebes, is pursuing, namely sustainability and energy saving. You debated that endlessly yesterday. You will also notice that the telecom providers take this task very seriously. KPN's been running on green power for years. Due to the policy we are now putting together, there is also an incentive to ensure that you get to work as energy efficient as possible. So I fully endorse what Mr Moorlag says, but it does not belong in the conditions of auction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u81	Well, I guess I'll just have to establish right now that we have an agreement to agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u82	Nice one, Mr. Chairman. Mrs van den Berg said that the field indicates that the entry into service obligation and the coverage requirements we have included are not real. I did not hear that there was criticism of the commissioning obligation. However, I understand that there are doubts about the cover requirement. At the same time, this is another subject that we are constantly discussing with the Chamber and on which many written questions are asked, namely those places in the Netherlands where people feel that it is not fast enough and is not available as should be expected from a basic provision. So I think it's really good to take a cover requirement. In itself, this is not yet final; I want to make an ambitious and realistic demand. I'm going to make a proposal in the draft permit I consult in September or October, along with the auction scheme. After that consultation, I will take a final decision on this. The CDA Group wants a transparent auction design, and no strategic bidding behavior. I believe that transparency and the prevention of strategic bidding behavior are important, together with the CDA Group. In the letter of 21 December 2018, I identified the objectives that I am pursuing in the auction design. You have also been able to read about this in the Note mobile communications. As I said, this auction scheme is going to be consulted. The decision on this will be clearly recorded. Before the start of the consultation, I will inform the Chamber about the draft, as I indicated to you just now, by sending the inquiry into the auction model to the Chamber. Another question about regulating access to the networks of Vodafone, Ziggo and KPN. At present, market players are regulated on the basis of the fact that they are dominant. With the implementation of the new regulatory framework, the telecom code "European legislation" "ACM" will also be able to regulate in other cases. This symmetrical regulation may impose on the ACM regardless of whether there is dominance, if there are difficult to replicate.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This responds to a question from the CDA, as there are also parties other than KPN, Vodafone and Ziggo that could be regulated. Then I'm almost at the last folder. I know how things are on this day, Mr. Chairman. I feel the pressure, so you're doing fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u83	You too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u84	Thank you. The VVD asks whether we are willing to think about a future vision of the digital infrastructure... Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u85	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u86	I would like the Secretary of State to answer the last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u87	No, it's not the last one, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u88	Oh, I thought you were almost done. Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u89	Since I think the Secretary of State is done with the part about the auction, I would like to ask a question about it, specifically about the spectrum caps introduced by the Secretary of State. Assuming for a moment that there are probably only three parties who will bid for this auction, I ask: is the Secretary of State considering a possible distribution of only 40-40-20? The party that gets the most upset gets 20% according to the Secretary of State's model. I'm actually wondering if it doesn't work to lower prices if you divide the caps in that way. Even if you're offering pretty low, you know you can still get 20% of the frequency. I wonder what the Secretary of State's analysis is on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u90	The target is a maximum cap of 40%. The intention is that this will ultimately keep you competitive after the auction. In addition, you look at the spectrum that telecom providers now have. It's not like I'm gonna think this is gonna be the outcome. It's just that with the existing spectrum and the maximum of 40% you can get, you can acquire a certain amount of spectrum. Of course, it may also be that someone is coming who has nothing at all now and who could obtain 40% at once. So we say maximum 40, to keep the competition alive. But it's not like I'm saying, that means he's gonna get this, that's gonna get that, and that's gonna happen to somebody else. That's not what I'm aiming for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u91	I understand that, but I don't know how much the Secretary of State thinks there is a chance that out of nowhere a player will show up on this market who wants to take 40%. Actually, I don't think that's a good chance. I am talking about the cap for the low frequencies, which are needed for the far range and which are therefore also crucial for the roll-out of 5G. Secretary of State says the cap is 40%. If two parties made it to 40%, you're at 80%. The remaining 20% goes to the third party. The question is whether that third party can not just think: well, that 20% is in the pocket anyway, I really don't have to do anything about it, because those caps are going to help me do that. So in other words, doesn't this make it possible to manipulate the auction model a little bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u92	I don't see it that way, because then would be... You know, it is also a bit difficult to answer this now, because we still have to establish the auction model together. It's being investigated now. If I were to speculate about that now, it would seem like I already have an auction model in my head. And that's not true, because it's being investigated. The auction model looks at a situation in the market after auctioning and thus remains sufficiently competitive. I also find it a little difficult to speculate about this now. I think it's better to wait for the investigation. If that has been sent to the Chamber, then the time has come to ask these questions, because then you can also be more specific. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna check on the VVD's questions. Are we prepared to consider a future vision of our digital infrastructure? We do! I find the question of support for policy in this respect. We have launched a Digital Connectivity Action Plan and we are constantly working to improve the quality of digital infrastructure and take advantage of the opportunities it offers. We are constantly discussing this, and my colleague, the Minister for Justice and Security, has also sent policy papers to the Chamber, which takes concrete action. Even when it comes to our European competitiveness, the digital economy is clearly in the picture. Are we thinking about a future vision of our digital infrastructure? Yeah, absolutely. I have already mentioned the Digital Connectivity Action Plan, which you have had before, but also the road map security of infrastructure is an example of this, like the Note mobile communication, which provides the conditions for the much needed frequencies. All in all, that is the vision that Mr Weverling is asking for. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van den Berg asked about the awareness of safe hardware and software. Of course, vulnerability is growing with ever-new technologies. I have therefore commissioned research into how entrepreneurs and consumers deal with so-called Internet of Things devices. One in five consumers indicate that they do not know how to secure devices connected to the Internet at all. A large majority say they know how to secure computers or mobile phones, but this is even less than half for devices like toys, lamps, refrigerators, and think what else is going to come to us. That is why we are going to launch a public campaign this autumn to inform citizens about this. On safeinternet.nl you can find all kinds of information for consumers and digitaltrustcenter.nl is there for entrepreneurs. Mr. Chairman. That is what I think I have come to the end of my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u93	I think it's Mr. Weverling's turn first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u94	Thank you, Madam President. Of course, the Secretary of State and all the people in the ministries constantly reflect on a vision of the future of digital infrastructure. There's a lot going on, too. I am concerned that we must also remain innovative and competitive at European level. I am not doing anything about all the policy papers and the like that have already been produced, because these are certainly good things. But we must remain competitive, and that is why I am really looking for a point on the horizon, always an annoying word, with the right partners in Europe taking steps to keep Europe and therefore the Netherlands competitive and innovative.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u95	I think I spent an entire afternoon with a colleague of Mr Weverling on innovation policy a week or two ago. I do not want to repeat this now, but our new top sectors and innovation policy for key technologies, including, for example, artificial intelligence, contains a variety of concrete measures. I fully agree with Mr Weverling and it is being pulled hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u96	I have always understood that the European Union has imposed a requirement that a large proportion of the 3.5 band should be made available by the respective national authorities by 31 December 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u97	In 2020. Sorry, Chairman, I didn't know my microphone was still on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u98	December 31, 2020, I thought, a year and a half from now. But we're not gonna make it if I read the letters from the cabinet. What are the consequences of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u99	If you do not comply with European regulations, you will be given so-called intergroup procedures. At the same time, we are engaged in auctioning frequencies, the multi-band auction, the 700, 1400 and 2100 band auction at the beginning of 2020. At the end of 2021, beginning 2022............................................................................................................. Every effort is therefore made to ensure that these frequencies are auctioned. Actually, I don't need that procedure at all either, and I think it belongs to the professional as well: as I mentioned in my introduction, I know how important frequencies are, because without frequencies you can't run all these wonderful techniques.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u100	A question, however, because the Secretary of State may not need that procedure, but can it have financial consequences if this cabinet fails to release that frequency band before 31 December 2020? And when does the Secretary of State expect that is of course a bit of wet fingering, I also understand that 5G will have been rolled out in the Netherlands by the three major telecom providers? What year are we talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u101	If you start... You know, I'm just in my head digging into the list of tires and when they need to be put into service. I think it's July 2020 for the 700............................................................................................................................................................................................ So we're going to do the multi-band auction in the first quarter of 2020, then it can be used. Is 5G already being used? Yes, there are already parts in the Netherlands where the 5G technology is simply used. There is also a lot of technology that still needs to be developed. I think we are well on course, but you asked me what the consequences would be if you did not comply with European legislation: there are procedures for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u102	Finally, Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u103	I asked, in particular, whether there could be a financial penalty.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u104	That may ultimately be the consequence. But these are procedures that start with the European Commission's statement that you do not comply with certain legislation. Then you are asked: right, and if so, why? You'll have a conversation about that, of course. Of course, a country that does its utmost stinking work, even from a well-understood self-interest, to make that technology available is something other than a country that says: "Well, captivating! I don't think that's so important." The latter certainly does not apply to me on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u105	I have not had an answer to one question, namely the issue of health and safety risks. I have argued in favour of facilitating a joint fact-finding and fact-checking process in line with what the natural and environmental organisations and industry have done. I simply have to say that there is a great deal of concern among people, that there is suffering in people, but that there is also scientific discussion. I understand the Minister says my course is determined by the RIVM and the Health Council. From her position, that is perfectly fair. But I ask her: also give room for scientific dialogue, in order to give a good place to the well-founded criticism of those who are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u106	I think that's what we're doing. In the Knowledge Platform EMV, RIVM, TNO, DNV GL, GGD Nederland, Agency Telecom, ZonMw and Environment Centraal work together to identify science and open knowledge for citizens, employees and local authorities. I am now reading from the April letter. So I think we're already doing that. I wonder what more you could do than what we're already doing to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u107	Very specific two things. In itself, I don't disapprove. It's good that it's there. The first is what Mr Futselaar has proposed: make sure that funding is such that independence cannot be called into question. The second point is: set up a process of dialogue for fact-checking and fact-finding with those who have scientifically substantiated criticisms.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u108	Yeah, same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u109	Then I refer to the letter of 18 April in which it says...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u110	Same answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u111	... and to the commitment I made to Mrs Van den Berg to see in a European context whether you can do something with what is the nature of the complaints, starting with the question we are actually talking about when we are talking about electrosensitivity. 'Cause that's what I think this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u112	Then Mr Weverling.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u113	The Secretary of State said she's meeting with Immarsat next week. Immarsat also has ground satellites in Burum. In addition, the State of those large white ground satellites is located in Burum. So they're being moved. Immarsat stays in Burum and does essential communications services for shipping and aviation. Now there has to be a solution for coexistence, so we can do it side by side. Can you promise a little more? This has also been looked at by the Telecom Agency. This essential communication must be able to continue, because that is important worldwide. Do you see to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u114	This is not about Burum nor about the satellite interception by the services. This is about Immarsat, a commercial company that does certain interceptions for the benefit of, among other things, shipping and aviation. I'm having a conversation about that. It's not easy, because you're very quickly interfering with each other. I'm just gonna talk to you about that. I realize that this is a commercial business, but it does provide a service that is in all our interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u115	Finally, Mr Weverling.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u116	Then, after that time, can you inform us about how you are going to make it work smoothly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u117	I'll inform you about the results. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u118	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have actually only heard one category of questions in my direction and those are the questions about the satellite interception in Burum. We have already written about this in our letter. You know that this is about the importance of state security. The cabinet is looking for a solution to enable both the national roll-out of 5G in time and the maintenance of the C-band satellite interception. An international solution must therefore be found in part of that interception. That is complicated and it takes time, as a number of Members of your Chamber have already said. We are very much in favour of this, and at the moment, as I can say to the Members of your Chamber, it also seems feasible to have a solution in the framework of international cooperation available on time. That will be before September 2022. We are fully committed to achieving this. In this context, as you know, because of confidentiality, I cannot comment on the precise implementation of international cooperation. The Court will be further informed about this through the appropriate channels. A number of Members asked how it would be if it was not possible. Actually, I don't want to anticipate that right now. I wouldn't speculate on that. If it turns out that a solution is not possible in the context of international cooperation, we must, of course, restore the weighting, the balance of interests between security and the economy. Mrs Bromet asked a further question, which was also raised by her colleague Diks last week in the AO on the public annual report of STVD. I can give you the answer for a while. You asked: what about the legal frameworks? The legal frameworks abroad are the same as in the Netherlands. The Wiv, the Intelligence and Security Services Act simply applies to the services. This means that supervision also applies in the same way. The CTIVD will therefore monitor, in addition to the TIB, which already supervises the chain. The CTIVD is also entitled to supervise abroad, or anywhere else. So that too is all well arranged. The legal safeguards there are all exactly the same as in the Netherlands. I think that's what I can say now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u120	Mr Sjoerdsma has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u121	I'm a little less hopeful myself than this minister. Originally, there would be much more clarity as early as March of this year about what will happen. So I'd like to talk about it if it doesn't work out. The Minister says, "I don't want to speculate about that." But the cabinet itself does so in the letter that sent it. It says: If it does not succeed, the cabinet will take bridging measures. I would like to ask this Minister what these bridging measures are.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u122	I said that I do not want to speculate on this now, because I really think there are good opportunities. Otherwise, I wouldn't have said so. I also said that I really think it's feasible. Otherwise, we wouldn't have written that in the last letter. I have just said that if it turns out that it is not feasible in the context of international cooperation, we will have to rebalance our interests. This concerns the balance between security and the economy, perhaps for parts of the country. But it seems to me very unwise to speculate on that. If you have any confidence, so on the last day before the recess, I would like to say to Mr Sjoerdsma. I always believe the glass is half full. Let's see if it works. We will no doubt discuss it again after the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u123	Mr. Sjoerdsma, don't you think?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u124	I always have confidence, even at the beginning of the process. But in March of this year, of course, a deadline had already passed that the cabinet had set for itself. There would be more clarity in March. So it shouldn't be weird that that confidence is getting worse. And if the timeline within which this is to happen threatens to shift, then I'm a little worried. I am certainly doing so now that the Minister speculates that a balance must be struck between economics and security. The Germans have already auctioned and are already rolling out. The question was answered halfway by the Secretary of State. Let me at least ask what consequences that will have for the satellite interception station in Burum. And how are these measures being mitigated? Is that roll-out gonna be stopped, limited?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u125	We are currently discussing the pace of roll-out with the German colleagues, because they can indeed have consequences for our satellite interception. We've never made a secret that we're looking for the conversation about that. That conversation is conducted by EZK through the Telecom Agency. But the services will also have that conversation with the German fellow services, because it is important for us. Some of Mr Sjoerdsma's colleagues have rightly set out state security, for example Mr Stoffer. I don't want to end up in that discussion. What we can say about it, we said about it. We inform through the appropriate channels, I told you. That cannot be done in public, so we will have to continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u126	I see that Mr Weverling also wants to ask a question, but I do not want to remain in the same circle. Do you have a question about a completely different point, Mr. Weverling, or is it about the exact same thing? I don't want a repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u127	No, it's definitely not a repeat. So we're getting more information. So the questions about what it's gonna cost, how we're gonna pay it, and whether the money comes from the auction proceeds, isn't the Minister gonna answer now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u128	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u129	That's short, powerful and clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u130	Isn't that what you wanted, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u131	Yeah, I'd love to. We shall now proceed to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u132	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the directors for their first reply. When I look at the House of Representatives in this way, I think there is broad support for the focus on security and for the way in which the Cabinet is trying to deal with it now. Actually, it might be short: 5G as fast as safe as possible. Mr. Chairman. I have myself expressed my concerns about the route with the satellite interception station. I hope that these concerns can be removed soon. But about preventing foreign interference, I have another motion. I'm going to read it to you immediately for the sake of time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a rapid safe roll-out of 5G in the Netherlands is crucial;]] [[noting that the proper functioning of Dutch society will increasingly depend on 5G;]] [[Whereas this dependence makes Dutch society increasingly vulnerable in the event of potential abuse by espionage and sabotage;]] [[Calls on the Cabinet to examine whether, following Germany's example, it is desirable that critical parts of networks should only be provided by reliable parties that meet the required requirements;]] [[calls on the Government to include this condition in the AMvB, if necessary,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Weverling, Mr Van den Berg, Mr Bruins and Mr Moorlag.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24095-480]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u133	Mr. Chairman. I'm filing two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there will be several frequency band auctions for the roll-out of 5G;]] [[Whereas there are concerns about possible espionage via 5G networks, including through the physical equipment of these networks;]] [[Whereas critical digital infrastructure, such as 5G, should ensure national security;]] [[calls on the Government not to allow the auction proceeds but to allow national security to lead in drawing up an auction model and in the various auctions of frequency bands for 5G,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the AIVD has repeatedly warned that certain countries are pursuing an offensive strategy towards the Netherlands which focuses on espionage and sabotage;]] [[Whereas national security should be ensured with regard to the digital infrastructure;]] [[noting that the Economic Security Task Force has developed additional security measures together with telecom providers;]] [[noting that the Government has implemented a structural cooperation between the Economic Security Task Force and the Dutch telecom providers;]] [[invites the Government to inform the Chamber annually of the progress of this partnership and their commitment to dealing with potential dangers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Weverling, Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Van den Berg, Mr Bruins, Mr Bromet, Mr Moorlag, Mr Futselaar, Mr Stoffer and Mr Graus.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24095-481]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Weverling, Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Van den Berg, Mr Bruins, Mr Bromet, Mr Moorlag, Mr Futselaar, Mr Stoffer and Mr Graus.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24095-482]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u134	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of GroenLinks, I shall table two motions, one on health and one on industrial policy. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are still many concerns in society about the health effects of the deployment of 5G;]] [[Whereas the existing investigations are based on GSM networks, UMTS (3G) and LTE (4G) and theoretical research;]] [[Whereas there are already locations where 5G is operational and that, in addition to the theoretical research already carried out, practical research needs to be carried out to investigate whether there are actual health effects of the deployment of 5G;]] [[invites the government, where possible in cooperation with academic institutions, local authorities, the GGD and other relevant bodies, to conduct health research at locations where 5G is already operational,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bromet, Mr Stoffer, Mr Moorlag and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24095-483]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u135	Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that we are increasingly dependent on Chinese suppliers and products in the field of telecom technology;]] [[whereas this is undesirable given the Chinese political system, which is widely dominated by the Communist Party;]] [[calls on the Government to develop a specific industrial policy for the telecoms sector at European level to support European companies in developing their own technology and reducing their dependence on Chinese components,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bromet, Mr Moorlag and Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24095-484]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm filing two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Netherlands may be at risk of espionage, infiltration and disruption not only in mobile but also in fixed networks;]] [[calls on the government, in line with the research and approach of mobile networks, to examine how these risks can be minimised and, on that basis, to develop a sound approach,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Moorlag, Mr Bromet and Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24095-485]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u137	Then there's the second motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the auctioning of the 5G frequencies, the creation of value for society should be the guiding principle;]] [[calls on the government to include the quality and coverage of the network, the rapid and complete deployment of 5G, including rural areas, and sustainability and low energy consumption in the award conditions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Moorlag, Mr Bromet and Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24095-486]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u138	This motion is partly on behalf of Mrs Bromet and Mr Futselaar. I have tabled the previous motion on behalf of Mr Sjoerdsma and Mrs Bromet. I don't remember a fucker like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u139	I also see Mr Sjoerdsma looking a little surprised.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u140	Finally, the State Secretary's reply on the health aspects and concerns of people. That is entirely true in our system reality of rules, protocols and procedures. My advice to the Secretary of State: take a good look at the process at the climate tables between nature and environmental organisations and industry. Parties that have been in the shooter pits for years have set up a process of joint fact finding and fact checking, in order to try to overcome irretrievably seeming contradictions. I would like to make this specific request once again, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u141	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg, on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have three motions. First of all, thanks to the directors for answering the questions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas telecommunications, and thus 5G, is a vital sector for which a high level of safety and protection must be ensured;]] [[Whereas the Government is going to make demands and take measures to this end;]] [[whereas there are concerns not only about vulnerabilities among telecom providers, but also about the threat posed by state actors in other vital services and processes;]] [[Whereas there are also specific regions with vital services and processes to be protected, such as ports, Schiphol, Brainport, Greenports, Ministries and the House of Representatives;]] [[calls on the Government to include these other vital services and processes in its broader approach, and in cooperation with the parties to develop a strengthened approach to the protection of vital processes and services,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas telecommunications, and thus 5G, is a vital sector for which a high level of safety and protection must be ensured;]] [[Whereas the motion by Mr Van den Berg and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. on a coordinated approach to the integrity of 5G networks;]] [[calls on the Government to also impose requirements on companies involved in 5G and on the shareholders of companies involved in 5G,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, on 16 April 2019, the Government sent a letter to the House of Representatives, showing that the Netherlands adheres to the international exposure limits for electromagnetic fields everywhere;]] [[Whereas, on the other hand, there are people experiencing health problems arising from exposure to electromagnetic fields and radiation;]] [[Whereas research into the causes and effects is difficult, inter alia because electrosensitives differ in both the nature of the complaints and in the sources in which they experience them;]] [[calls on the Government to draw attention at European level to health complaints among people who indicate that they are caused by electromagnetic fields and radiation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van den Berg, Mr Weverling, Mr Bruins, Mr Graus, Mr Bromet, Mr Moorlag, Mr Stoffer and Mr Futselaar.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24095-487]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van den Berg, Mr Bruins, Mr Graus and Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24095-488]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van den Berg, Mr Weverling, Mr Bromet, Mr Moorlag and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24095-489]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u143	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for your coulance, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u144	Thank you. Then I'll go to Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u145	Thank you, Madam President. My name is under various motions, including those of Mr Van den Berg and Mr Weverling on state security and to make demands to any partners, even in the future. I would nevertheless like to table a separate motion on public health and animal health, which goes a little further. The motion I am about to read, Madam President, is also in line with the opinion of Professor Kromhout, at least if I have to believe the letter from the Secretary of State. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to carry out independent epidemiological and oncology investigations into possible longer-term adverse effects on humans and animals, since they cannot be demonstrated (yet) in the short term,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Graus, Mr Moorlag and Mr Bromet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24095-490]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u146	Thank you. Until tonight, next night, about two o'clock, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u147	Yes. Cozy. Until tonight, indeed. Thank you. That was the second term of office. There is a need for a short suspension of five minutes. Then I'll suspend the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u148	I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u149	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the House in second term, also for a number of motions. I shall now respond, as far as they concern my area. I'll start with the motion in part No. 482 of Mr Weverling on the annual information on the progress of the structural cooperation. I leave the judgment on that motion to the Chamber, if I may explain it so that I may inform the Chamber on this and on the progress on the National Cybersecurity Agenda at the same time. If that explanation on that point is correct... I see Mr Weverling nodding, Mr President. As long as it's not from the radiation. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the motion by Mr Moorlag, Mrs Bromet and Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u150	What number?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u151	Oh, excuse me. That's the motion in part No. 485. In this motion, too, the task force will focus on the ongoing structural process. So judge Room. Finally, there is Mrs van den Berg's motion on the other vital services and processes. I thought that was the motion in part no. 487 was. I endorse the concern expressed in that motion. I leave the judgment to the Chamber on this too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u152	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u153	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A few motions and one more question. I leave the judgment on Mr Sjoerdsma and others' first motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u154	What number?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u155	The first motion, Chairman, in part No. 480. The measures will be further developed in the coming period. I will therefore ask you to examine whether it is desirable that the critical parts of networks should only be supplied by reliable parties that meet the requirements. The general measure of governance in which this could be regulated will be published this autumn. Then the motion to part No. 481 by Mr Weverling. I read this motion in support of the policy and leave it to the Chamber, because I read it in such a way that, by adopting the advice of the task force, technical and organisational measures will soon be taken by general administrative measures, which will ensure national security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u156	What motion was that exactly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u157	The motion in part No. 481, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u158	Okay, fine. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u159	The motion Weverling c.s. in piece No. 481, which says something about the auction proceeds, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u160	Fine!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u161	Then the motion to part No. 483 of Bromet c.s. I advise against this motion. There's already research going on, as I promised. The Agency Telecom already conducts measurements and research, and the knowledge platform monitors scientific research in science and the Health Council. Mr Moorlag is also under this motion. He actually had some kind of sigh at the end. He said, "Would you like to see if you've involved all the different actors through the knowledge platform?" That April letter lists at some point who are all involved, but I would like to redirect Mr Moorlag's request to the knowledge platform, to see if we are actually doing everything in that area. Because I take people's complaints seriously. I think we're doing everything, but I always think it's worth checking again to see if it really is. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 484 of Bromet c.s. I advise against this motion. I think we've already exchanged a few things about that. Then the motion to part No. 486 of Moorlag c.s. I advise against this motion. I have already discussed this with Mr Moorlag in an interrupting debate, and I try to be as brief as possible at the request of the President. Then the motion to part No. 488 van Van den Berg c.s. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. Security measures will be further developed in the coming period. In addition, I have previously sent your Chamber the bill on unwanted control. Under this bill, I can test shareholders who control or acquire control of telecom providers for possible risks to national security and public order. Then the motion to part No. 489 by Mrs Van den Berg c.s. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. The cause of electrosensitive complaints is not scientifically clear. The knowledge platform expects that further research will not provide clarity in the short term. As already shared, research into causes and effects is difficult, because the causes and nature of the complaints differ. But I am going to consult with my colleague for Medical Care and Sport, as I have already promised, and I am going to draw attention to this in a European context. Then the motion to part No. 490 by Mr Graus. That's the final motion. I advise against this motion. We have also shared some of this in the debate. I don't want to repeat myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u162	I hear Mr. Graus wants to respond to that. Wait a minute, Mr. Graus. Mr Sjoerdsma would like to ask about a previous motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u163	Yeah, about the motion in part No. 488. I just have a short question so I know what I'm voting for. I should have done this when Mrs Van den Berg was behind the cathedral, but then it went too fast. But what is the cabinet going to do if this motion is adopted and implemented? That's what I'd like to know. That helps me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u164	We are in the process of designing a general measure of governance, in which technical and organisational requirements will be imposed. In organisational requirements, you can imagine what is also included in the Unwanted Control Telecommunications Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u165	So it's nothing more and nothing less than what's in the Wozt now in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u166	I can't be that precise, Mr. Chairman. You're really gonna have to wait for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u167	Okay, but then I don't know what it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u168	You are free to vote for or against. Then Mr Graus on his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u169	It's a little weird. I have made my motion for a resolution, which I have done for the sake of convenience, exactly as the advice of Professor Kromhout. He actually advises us as a chamber through the Secretary of State. He advises the following. He cannot guarantee that the radiation from mobile telephony is dangerous, nor can he guarantee that it is safe. He says that more research is needed into the possible health effects of radiation in the longer term. That's exactly what I'm asking, and then my motion is dissuaded. So it's kind of weird that the Secretary of State is promoting this in a letter. I'm tabling a motion because it doesn't happen, and that's why I want a stick behind the door and I'm asking as a room. And then Secretary of State says, "I'm going to dissuade that motion." That's a little weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u170	No. The letter from April of this year says that we are still doing research, a cohort investigation. It also states that the Health Council comes to the conclusion that there are no health complaints if you keep to the demands that are made. This motion is based on the opposite, and that is why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u171	She doesn't assume the opposite at all. I'm asking the exact same question. I'm just asking you to take veterinary research too, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u172	You made that very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u173	... for example, the bees also suffer from radiation. The bees are at the beginning of our food cycle and they are already suffering from it; that has been shown. So it's supposed to be bothering people, too. End of exercise. There's no other way. One and one is two. So I find it very strange, but yes, again: at least I did my best.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u174	Mr Weverling, a brief question on a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u175	I also have a question on the motion for a resolution on item No. 488. You say that you agree that the government makes demands on companies involved in 5G and on shareholders. What kind of demands do you think Mrs Van den Berg means? That is not said. How many Chinese, or Limburgish, shareholders are they? And then you're talking about the AMvB and you're talking about the Unwanted Control Act telecom. Is this going to be in the AMvB or in that law, and what kind of demands are we talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u176	I have read this motion in such a way that it refers to the measures we are going to lay down in the general measure of governance. It will impose technical and organisational requirements. With the latter you can think of the framework, in beautiful Dutch, the system that is laid down in the Unwanted Control Telecommunications Act. That's my interpretation of that motion. If I do not hear a counter-sound, I assume that the petitioner will agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u177	Yes. You are free to vote for or against the motion, Mr. Weverling. You want the motion to be dissuaded, do I understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u178	So the framework of the Unwanted Control Telecommunications Act is leading the demands that are being made? Isn't that what you're saying? The framework in that Act unwanted control telecommunications is leading.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u179	No, that's what's being thought of. I cannot go into that at the moment, for reasons which are known to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u180	Yeah, okay. Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-40.u181	We shall be voting on the motions tabled tonight. I would like to thank the Minister for Justice, the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate and the Minister for Defence.
